
     ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 1, Issue 3, pages 111-162. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:1+issue:3+year:1905&browseMode=source
    
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                George Winter, Artist
                The Catlin of Indiana
                MANY times, to the knowledge of the present writer, a query has been made as to the fate of a certain
                    large oil painting that once belonged to the State of Indiana, and was kept in the State House. The
                    picture was that of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     battle ground, and was particularly valuable not only because of the importance of that
                    battle and its prominence in the State history, but also because of its political and civil bearing
                    on the commonwealth in subsequent days. Although the painting came to the State as a gift, the State
                    did not think highly enough of it to guard it, and it has long since gone the way of all rubbish.
                    One informant tells me the last time he saw this picture it was stowed obscurely away in a little
                    room off the Supreme Court chamber, in the old State House. It was unframed, with canvas broken and
                    lopped over. when the contents of the old Capitol were removed the painting seems to have
                    disappeared for good. That is about all that is known of the treasure. Where the picture came
                    from—who painted it—not one in hundreds, even among those who remember it, could tell; and yet that
                    inquiry leads to a fund of interesting information.
                In the newspapers of forty or fifty years ago one may find an occasional communication signed "George
                    Winter," and as often a paragraph about this individual, whose name, except among the older
                    residents of the locality where he lived, is now sunk in oblivion. From these fragmentary scraps one
                    gathers that Mr. Winter was a pioneer artist of the Wabash Valley—honored as such in his day—and
                    with tastes and interests that stimulate curiosity about the man and his work.
                George Winter, the painter of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     picture, was well known in northern Indiana for nearly forty years. He can hardly be
                    called the first professional painter of note in the State, 
                    since Charles A. Lesueur and others of the 
                        New Harmony
                     group antedate him, while Jacob Cox of 
                        Indianapolis
                     was his contemporary. In a history of 
                        Indiana's
                     art movement, Winter would take conspicuous rank among its beginners. The foundations
                    for his work were laid in 
                        England
                    , under favorable circumstances. Born at Portsea in 1810, of a cultured family, he lived
                    in an art atmosphere from childhood. His talent was fostered and encouraged. After a preliminary
                    course of private instruction he went to 
                        London
                    , entered the Royal Academy, and lived and worked with artists for four years. When
                    twenty years old he came to 
                        New York City
                    . Seven years later—1837—found him at 
                        Logansport
                    , and most of the remainder of his life was spent in the Wabash Valley.
                After residing thirteen years in 
                        Logansport
                    , he removed to 
                        Lafayette
                     and lived there until 1873, when he went to 
                        California
                    . In 1876 he returned to 
                        Lafayette
                    , and soon after died of apoplexy while sitting in a public audience at the opera-house.
                During these years Mr. Winter earned his livelihood with his brush, in a new country which was
                    supposed to have very little appreciation of art—something of a mystery when we consider how
                    meagerly our present artists fare in the midst of a more advanced culture. One of these latter who,
                    when a young man, knew Winter, testifies to his business enterprise. Being an industrious painter he
                    accumulated a great number of canvases, and once a year, about holiday time, would put them up at a
                    "grand raffle." It proved a popular method. People who would not dream of paying a hundred dollars
                    for a "mere picture," did not mind risking a dollar or two for a chance; and as a consequence, these
                    raffles being well attended, art found its way to the walls of the people. Many of these pictures
                    are now preserved in 
                        Lafayette
                    , 
                        Logansport
                    , 
                        Peru
                     and other Wabash River towns.
                    The late Judge Horace P. Biddle of 
                        Logansport
                     had five of them which gave a fair idea of the character of those that caught the
                    popular taste. They represent local scenes on Eel
                    and Wabash rivers, the realism, in one or
                    two instances, being modified with touches of fancy.
                In a private letter written in 1841 and now in possession of the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Historical Society, the artist speaks of six different  pictures of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     battle ground and of two of these as having a dimension of "152 square feet each."
                    According to his description all were taken from different points of view, and, taken together,
                    conveyed one idea not only of the battle ground, but of the "surrounding romantic country."
                These pictures were painted in 1840, and the immediate incentive seems to have been the great 
                        Tippecanoe
                     campaign of that year. There are indications, however, that this attempt to benefit by
                    the fleeting public interest was hardly successful, for further on in the letter he writes:
                
                    
                        
                            
                                "Although I have been defeated in getting these views before the public eye at the
                                    time when political excitement ran high, yet I have often indulged in the consoling
                                    hopes that Harrison would be elected, and that an interest would still be felt. ∗ ∗
                                    ∗ I think if I could get these pictures to 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     some time before the General sets out for the White House ∗ ∗ ∗ that it
                                    would be a favorable time to exhibit them. I have also thought that it would be a
                                    propitious time, too, either at the inauguration or during the spring to exhibit
                                    them at 
                                        Washington
                                    ."
                            
                        
                    
                
                Nothing, probably, ever came of these plans; the pictures have passed away from human knowledge, and
                    of one only have we the meager record. This one was presented to the State and the State threw it
                    away.
                The most noteworthy and the most valuable work left by Mr. Winter was a collection pictures that was
                    never sold by him. All are now in the possession of his daughter, Mrs. C. G. Ball of 
                        Lafayette
                    . When he came to 
                        Logansport
                    , in 1837, to quote his own statement, he was "allured to Indiana to be present at the
                    councils held by Col. A. C. Pepper, at the village of Kee-waw-nay, in regard to the Pottawattomie
                    immigration west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    ." He had an artist's romantic interest in the picturesque red man. What George Catlin
                    was to the Indians in general George Winter was to the Pottawattomies and Miamis of the 
                        Wabash
                    , and this rare collection, still preserved by Mrs. Ball, is the result. Presumably he
                    valued them too highly to raffle them off miscellaneously, and the fortunate fact that the
                    collection is still intact, together with much valuable manuscript matter, is  certainly one of which the State of 
                        Indiana
                     ought to take advantage. They represent a phase of life on 
                        Indiana
                     soil which has been little recorded, and no literary records could convey a more
                    graphic idea of the present inhabitants' barbarian predecessors and their characteristics.
                According to my careful count, there are nine oil paintings and thirty-eight water colors in the
                    collection$$. Of the oils, four canvases are filled in with groups of heads, representing in all
                    thirty-three Pottawattomie chiefs and women. One is a life-size head of Francis Godfrey, the last
                    war chief of the Miamis, and-another of Joseph Barron, the famous interpreter, who served General
                    Harrison for eighteen years, and was an important personage in the Indian transactions of General
                    Tipton and Abel C. Pepper.
                The water colors are mostly of uniform size, the cards perhaps a foot square. The greater part of
                    them are portraits with landscape backgrounds. They are beautiful color studies, the Indian costumes
                    of that day, with their rich riot of hues and the finery furnished by the traders making rarely
                    picturesque subjects. Some of these are of Indian chiefs, prominent in their day, but now lost to
                    memory, while a number are of Indian women, belles of their tribes, gorgeously apparaled. Several
                    represent modes of burial, manner of traveling, etc., and two are of Frances Slocum, the white
                    captive, whose strange story has been repeatedly published.
                Along with this collection is a mass of manuscript matter which undoubtedly has a decided historic
                    value, and which probably offers a more intimate description of the 
                        Wabash
                     Indians than has been preserved elsewhere. Among these records a large number of
                    folders of stiff paper are neatly bordered and carefully filled in with writing. This is a
                    descriptive and biographical key to the water colors; the sheets correspond in size to the pictures,
                    and the whole makes a large portfolio, which should certainly be procured and placed where the
                    writers of our history can have access to them.—G. S. C.
                
                    NOTE—Since the above was written two interesting pictures by George Winter have been found.
                        One, of the 
                            Tippecanoe
                         battle-ground, is now being re-touched, and will probably come into possession of
                        the State Library. The other, of William Digby, the founder of 
                            Lafayette
                        , was rescued from a second-hand store in that city and will be hung in the 
                            Lafayette
                         library building.
                
            
            
            
                Winter's Description of Frances Slocum
                [The following letter from the pen of George Winter is re-printed from a proof-sheet furnished us by
                    Mrs. C. G. Ball, of 
                        Lafayette
                    , Mr. Winter's daughter. It was written as a communication to the 
                        Philadelphia
                     Press—date not attached. The picture referred to is one of two oil portraits by this
                    artist now, as we understand, in possession of Slocum families at 
                        Wilkesbarre
                    , 
                        Pa.
                     This one is reproduced in Meginness' book on Frances Slocum, and the other in Lossing's
                    "Field Book of the Revolution."]
                
                    
                        
                            
                                SIR: A few days since my attention was called to your interesting reminiscence
                                    published in the Washington Chronicle, since reproduced in the 
                                        Lafayette
                                    
                                    Courier.
                                
                                Your allusions to Frances Slocum, the "Lost Sister," are of peculiar interest to me,
                                    as I am familiar with her history, being at the time of her discovery, a resident of 
                                        Logansport
                                    , and intimately acquainted with Colonel G. W. Ewing at the time he
                                    wrote the letter that led to her discovery, which you published so long ago.
                                In the year 1839, at the request of the Slocum family, I visit ed the "Deaf Man's
                                    Village," for the purpose of sketching the likeness of Frances which is the only
                                    effort of the pencil of her executed from life. Her history being so romantic and
                                    interesting I availed myself of the opportunity then and there of making sketches of
                                    the Captive's home from several points of view, and other surroundings that I
                                    thought would be of general interest.
                                My visit to the Captive's home was attended with many interesting circumstances. It
                                    was a potent auxiliary in satisfying a desire of seeing and knowing the red races in
                                    their aboriginal homes, I having been allured in 1837 to 
                                        Indiana
                                     to be present at the councils held by Colonel A. C. Pepper at the
                                    village of Keewaw-nay, in regard to the Pottawattamie emigration west of the 
                                        Mississippi
                                    .
                                There have been several notices of the history of Frances Slocum during the time
                                    intervening between her discovery and the present. They are, however, marred by many
                                    inaccuracies.
                                Having known Frances Slocum personally, and being familiar, too, with her Indian
                                    family, will you accept the following statement of personal appearance, which I
                                    extract from my journal (unpublished) of a visit to the "Deaf Man's Village," A. D.
                                    1839.
                                
                                I will, however, premise that Colonel Ewing was not an Indian agent. Colonel A. C.
                                    Pepper was the agent at the time of the discovery of the "Lost Sister." Colonel
                                    Ewing was an Indian trader of considerable prominence and success. He was of the
                                    well-known firm of Ewing, Walker & Co. Ewing, as a trader, knew Frances
                                    Slocum for many years, but it was not until the captive woman was in deep
                                    affliction—hopeless of recovery, and in the conviction of mind that the realities of
                                    life were about to close upon her—that she revealed her history to Colonel Ewing.
                                    Her anticipations of death at that time did not receive their fulfillment, for she
                                    did not die until 1847.
                                The following are the extracts from the journal:
                                "Preparations were then made for the ‘sitting.’ An old split-bottom chair was brought
                                    in by ‘Kick-ke-se-quah' from the adjoining room, which I placed near the little
                                    window, so as to obtain the best angle of light to fall upon her. Frances Slocum
                                    presented a very singular and picturesque appearance. Her ‘toute
                                        ensemble' was unique. She was dressed in a red calico ‘pes-mo-kin,' or
                                    shirt, figured with large yellow and green figures; this garment was folded within
                                    the upper part of her ‘mech-a-ko-teh,' or petticoat, of black cloth of excellent
                                    quality, bordered with red ribbon. Her nether limbs were clothed with red fady
                                    leggings, ‘winged' with green ribbon; her feet were bare and moccasinless.
                                    ‘Kick-ke-se-quah,' her daughter, who seemed not to be without some pride in her
                                    mother's appearing to the best advantage, placed a black silk shawl over her
                                    shoulders pinning it in front. I made no suggestions of any change in these
                                    arrangements, but left the toilette uninfluenced in any one particular.
                                "Frances placed her feet across upon the lower round of the chair. Her hands fell
                                    upon her lap in good position. Frances Slocum's face bore the marks of deep-seated
                                    lines. Her forehead was singularly interlaced with right angular lines and the
                                    muscles of her cheeks were of ridgy and corded lines. There were no indications of
                                    unwonted cares upon her countenance, beyond times influences, which peculiarly mark
                                    the decline of life. Her hair, originally of a dark brown, was now frosted. Though
                                    bearing some resemblance to her family (white), yet her cheek bones  seemed to have the Indian characteristies—face broad,
                                    nose bulby, mouth indicating some degree of severity, her eyes pleasant and kind.
                                "The ornamentation of her person was very limited. In her ears she wore a few small
                                    silver earbobs, peculiarly Indian style and taste. Frances Slocum was low in
                                    stature, being scarcely five feet in height. Her personal appearance suggested the
                                    idea of her being a half-breed Pottawattamie woman rather than a Miami squaw. The
                                    Miamis and Pottawattamies have very distinctive characteristics in regard to stature
                                    and conformation of head and facial appearance."
                                The above description of the personality of Frances Slocum is in harmony with the
                                    effort of my pencil.
                                Allow me to add that she had three daughters, one only of whom is now living. She is
                                    residing on the Mississinnewa, the wife of the Rev. P. Bondy, a Miami Baptist
                                    preacher, who was converted to Christianity under the missionary zeal of George
                                    Slocum, a Baptist, son of Isaac Slocum, who settled in the Miami National
                                    Reservation. Mrs. Bondy was a widow when I knew her, in 1839; her name then was
                                    "O-sou-pak-shin-quah."
                                "Kick-ke-se-quah," the oldest daughter, was the wife of Captain Jean Baptiste
                                    Brouillette. He died three years since. The Captain was a distinguished Miami; he
                                    was a medicine man (not a juggler), an orator of great volubility and force; he was
                                    also a convert to Christianity, and preached among the Miamis with success. The
                                    other daughter died before the discovery of Frances Slocum. Her death was associated
                                    with very painful and startling circumstances. The story runs that the son of a
                                    chief wooed her, but did not win her heart; her affections were bestowed upon
                                    another champion for her love. Her happiness, however, was not consummated by
                                    marriage. She drooped and died; and suspicion, ever active, suggested, and, it was
                                    feared, too truly, that she was the victim of poison.
                                The wigwam upon the Mississinnewa, at the "Deaf Man's Village," was a large, double
                                    log cabin, of comfortable capacity, such as characterizes the thrifty farmer's home
                                    in the West. A smaller cabin was attached to it, in which a very aged squaw lived.
                                    There was also a small bark hut, separated from the  main log, by a distance of a few rods. In addition to
                                    these structures, were a tall corn crib and stable, all of which, unitedly,
                                    constituted the famous "Deaf Man's Village"—the home of Mono-con-a-qua, the "Lost
                                    Sister," Frances Slocum. "She-buck-onah" was the name of the deaf chief, the second
                                    husband of the heroine of whom we have written so long an epistle. Hoping it may not
                                    be considered obtrusion upon your active engagements, I remain yours very truly,
                                GEORGE WINTER.
                            
                        
                    
                
            
            
                Sketch of Frances Slocum
                THE story of Frances Slocum, the "White Rose of the Miamis," as some one has poetically styled her,
                    has been often told, but in connection with the preceding description of her by George Winter, the
                    romantic and curious incidents of her career will bear repeating here.
                Frances Slocum has now been dead some fifty-eight years. Born to the white man's heritage she began
                    life under the loving care of white parents. She ended it a squaw among the Miami Indians, a
                    thousand miles from her birth-place, the wealthy widow of a chief and alienated utterly from her own
                    race, from whom she had been separated more than sixty-eight years. The account of this transformed
                    life is one of the most remarkable to be found in all our Indian annals.
                The Slocums were Quakers who came from Rhode Island to the Wyoming valley, in
                    eastern 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , when Frances was four years old, and settled where the city of Wilkesbarre now stands.
                    This was in 1777. The next year occurred the historic attack and butchery by the British and Indians
                    which has so often been the theme of prose and verse. The Slocum home was assailed and pillaged by
                    three 
                        Delaware
                     Indians when the men were absent. The mother and most of her children fled and
                    concealed themselves in the woods, but little Frances, who, in the consternation of the moment seems
                    to have been overlooked, secreted herself under a flight of steps leading to the loft till one of
                    the Indians discovered Her feet protruding, and dragged her 
                    out. A lame brother had also been left in the house, and as the marauders made off with the children
                    their mother, forgetful of her own peril, came out and pleaded for their release. The boy was left,
                    but the last she saw of her little girl she was thrown, bag-wise, over her captor's shoulder, and,
                    with one hand outstretched, the other trying to keep the long, luxuriant hair from her face, was
                    calling piteously to her mother for help.
                The sorrows of this unfortunate woman were great. Francis was her favorite child, the pet of the
                    household, and the memory of the little one's last heart-rending appeal never died away. To fill her
                    cup to the brim, a month or so after the abduction both her husband and father were shot down,
                    tomahawked and scalped by the savages. This new grief, terrible as it was, time assuaged, we are
                    told; but the fate of her child, from its very uncertainty, haunted her till her death, more than
                    twenty-eight years after the separation.
                During those years repeated efforts were made to find the lost daughter. Her brothers made trips as
                    far westward as 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Detroit
                     to meet Indians, agents and traders, hoping through them to get trace of their sister.
                    Mrs. Slocum herself, then fifty-three years old, braved the difficulties of wilderness travel to
                    attend a gathering of Indians who were to return captives to their families. To facilitate the
                    search liberal rewards were offered, but all of no avail, and in this connection one or two
                    interesting facts come to light, indicative of the Indian character. In the first place the family
                    and tribe into which Frances was adopted accorded her an unusual regard, as was revealed by her
                    subsequent account. One reason given for this was the color of her hair, which is described as
                    reddish or auburn, and which to the Indians was so unusual as to be esteemed a mark of distinction.
                    Hence, they were not willing to give her up. Again, the indications are that her foster-people knew
                    of the search that was being made for her, and the further supposition is that the Indians far and
                    wide knew who had this particular auburn-haired captive, yet, despite the proffered rewards, never a
                    one would reveal her whereabouts—an illustration of the fidelity with which a red man will keep the
                    secrets of his fellows. Until the day of her death Mrs. Slocum believed that her daughter still
                    lived, and  for years after that the family clung to the hope
                    and instituted occasional search and inquiry, but finally the question was laid at rest as one of
                    the mysteries never to be solved.
                Now comes another chapter of this romantic story. Fifty-seven years after little Frances Slocum had
                    been carried off in eastern 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , Colonel George W. Ewing, a well-known fur trader of the Wabash
                    Valley, made an interesting discovery. He was traveling on horseback from 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     to 
                        Logansport
                    , and stopped over night at an Indian habitation known as the "Deaf Man's Village," on
                    the Mississinewa River. This
                    "village" consisted of a log cabin residence and various outbuildings that had been the home of
                    She-pan-can-ah, a deaf Indian, then deceased, who was the war chief of the Miamis before Francis
                    Godfroy. The place was now occupied by the venerable widow of She-pan-can-ah, Ma-con-a-qua, together
                    with her family. They were quite wealthy, from the Indian point of view, owning a great number of
                    horses, cattle, hogs and fowls, and a large reserve of land. Several things about the old woman led
                    Mr. Ewing to suspect that she was really not an Indian, and, gaining her confidence, he got from her
                    the story of her life and her abduction in early childhood. She remembered her Christian
                    name—Slocum—and that her father was a Quaker, but where her old home was she did not know, further
                    than that it was somewhere along the Susquehanna
                        River. Her story impressed Mr. Ewing deeply, and he resolved to communicate his
                    information to some one in eastern 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in hopes of reaching some of Ma-con-a-qua's family. To whom or where to write was a
                    puzzling question, but finally selecting 
                        Lancaster
                     as an old and important town on the Susquehanna, he sent a letter at a venture to the postmaster of that place.
                Then happened one of those curious little freaks of fate which sometimes occur outside of the
                    novelist's pages. It chanced that said postoffice was in charge of a woman, owner of the 
                        
                            Lancaster
                         Intelligencer. It further seems that this woman had not journalistic sense
                    enough to know that Mr. Ewing's long and circumstantial letter made a good "story," to say nothing
                    of the humane considerations involved. Instead of publishing it she cast it aside among a lot of old
                    papers, where it lay forgotten  for two years. It chanced again
                    that it was not destroyed, and that in the course of time it was discovered by some one who
                    recognized its importance. It now found the light in the Intelligencer, which had
                    changed hands, and fate this time ordained that it should be published in a large extra edition of
                    the paper, which was widely distributed. A copy found its way to Joseph Slocum, one of the brothers,
                    at Wilkesbarre. The family there at once opened up a correspondence with Colonel Ewing, and this
                    resulted in two brothers and a sister, all old then, meeting at 
                        Peru
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , to identify their sister.
                Accompanied by an interpreter the trio followed an Indian trail ten miles up the Mississinewa to the rude home of
                    Ma-con-a-qua. They were received by a stolid woman to all appearances a thorough Indian, with the
                    coolness and reticence of her adopted race. She had been apprised of their coming, but showed no
                    feeling, either of gladness or curiosity. She asked no questions concerning either them or her
                    parents, and during their visit treated them with a civil indifference. When they invited her to
                    visit them at 
                        Peru
                     she would not promise till she should consult with Francis Godfroy, the chief, but when
                    he assured her that it was safe to make the visit, she and her two daughters and a son-in-law came,
                    a picturesque cavalcade riding their ponies single file and "decked in gay, barbaric apparel." In
                    accordance with the formal Indian etiquette, they bore with them a haunch of venison, and this being
                    solemnly presented as a token of confidence and received in the same spirit, their reserve gave
                    place to an open friendliness, and Frances talked of herself at length. To the request that she go
                    back East to her kinfolks, even for a brief visit, she would not consent. To her resolution she
                    firmly adhered, and her people, after this successful issue to their long quest, went sorrowfully
                    back to their homes.
                The "white captive" lived ten years after this visit from her kindred, and died at her home on the
                        Mississinewa in March, 1847,
                    aged seventy-four years. Her life presents an interesting study of that much-mooted question,
                    environment versus heredity. While she became in all her tastes an aborigine, thoroughly alienated
                    from the aspirations of her native race, she seems to have retained certain Caucasian qualities,
                    among them a strength  of character and a dominating mentality
                    which gave her among the red people that prestige which the whites that mingled with the Indians
                    have almost invariably commanded. She was free from the vices that are particularly common among the
                    Indians, notably that of intemperance, and her cleanliness and orderly housekeeping were contrary to
                    the slovenly habits of these dirty people. She had the Indian's fondness for picturesque apparel,
                    and her industry and skill to this end is most interestingly shown by some of her clothes still
                    preserved by Gabriel Godfroy, a well-known Miami, now living east of 
                        Peru
                    . These garments, some of them of the finest broadcloth procurable of the traders, are
                    beautifully ornamented with designs worked with narrow silken ribbons of different colors, the
                    needlework looking like machine stitching.
                Of a piece with the story of the "White Rose of the Miamis" is the account of her marriage to
                    She-pan-can-ah, the chieftain, which is as romantic as the fond fabrications of the Indian legend
                    writers who love to talk about "dusky mates." Ma-con-a-qua found the young warrior by the wayside
                    badly wounded, and he was taken to the lodge of her foster parents and nursed back to health. For a
                    time he remained with them and, being a skilled hunter, furnished the family with meat. When he
                    prepared to seek pastures new they prevailed with him to stay permanently, and the presumably fair
                    Ma-con-a-qua was given him to wife.
                Some years ago the question of preserving in a permanent way the memory of Frances Slocum and of the
                    vanished race with which she was linked was agitated, and on the 17th of May, 1900 a handsome and
                    substantial monument of white bronze was unveiled over her grave, near the village of Peoria, 
                        Miami County
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    . The branches of the Slocum family were represented by many members from 
                        Michigan
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , and States further east, and remnants of the Miami tribe of Indians gathered for the
                    occasion, some from their distant reserve in 
                        Kansas
                    . In addition a large attendance from the surrounding country made the occasion the more
                    memorable and served to promote a sentiment which we of 
                        Indiana
                     might well cultivate.
                G. S. C.
            
            
            
                The 
                        Wabash
                     and Its Valley
                Part II—Settlement and Early Development
                THE treaty of St. Mary's, made in 1818, which gave to the 
                        United States
                     government the whole interior portion of Indiana, threw open to settlement the greater
                    part of the upper Wabash valley. In the "New Purchase" there were, according to a writer of that
                    time (Dana), some 8,500,000 acres, and emigration could not spread over that vast area in a day; but
                    by the early twenties, nevertheless, the "land hunter" had penetrated to the 
                        Wabash
                     bottoms, attracted thither by the wonderful fertility and other advantages of that
                    region. A tract receding twenty to forty miles from the river on either side comprised the "valley,"
                    and throughout this tract were magnificent forests interspersed with beautiful prairies luxuriant
                    with growths of waving grass, prodigally gay with countless flowers, and with a soil practically
                    bottomless. More than that, the noble 
                        Wabash
                     promised communication with the remote outer world, and all things pointed to an
                    opulent future. In 1824 the land office for the sale of 
                        Wabash
                     lands was opened at 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , then the only settlement between 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . A mixed population from the eastern and southern portions of the State and from 
                        Ohio
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , 
                        Tennessee
                     and other sections, came pouring in, and the coveted localities were rapidly taken up
                    at the government price of $1.25 per acre. Among these pioneers the honest home-seekers were so far
                    in the ascendency that speculators were obliged to be wary and content themselves with second
                    choice, but they were amply in evidence, nevertheless. Immediately on the heels of these first
                    purchases came the craze for the establishment of towns that were to be future emporiums, and for
                    the following decade they sprang up like mushrooms along the river, each big with ambition and hope,
                    and each envious of the others. The founding of a prospective city seems to have been a very simple
                    performance, consisting chiefly in laying off one's purchase into "town lots," and booming the same
                    in various and divers ways. The first requisite was that the location be at a ford of the river as a
                    likely place for the establishing of a steamboat  dock. The
                    beginning of 
                        Lafayette
                     is an example. William Digby purchased a piece of land so thickly grown with hazel, and
                    plum brush, and grape vines that the surveyor had great difficulty in doing his work. After creating
                    a "town" by laying out this ground and naming it 
                        Lafayette
                    , in honor of the illustrious Frenchman, Digby sold most of the site to Samuel Sargeant
                    for the sum of $240, and Sargeant began his little "boom" by getting some of the influential 
                        Crawfordsville
                     citizens interested in it. A few cabins went up, but it was uncertain for a good while
                    whether the embryo city would live through its beginning. An ironical wag of another settlement
                    jeeringly dubbed it "Lay Flat," or "Laugh At," and threatened to "grease it with a bacon rind so
                    that the next dog that came by might eat it." Time and unforseen circumstances, however, turned the
                    tables, and eventually 
                        Lafayette
                     looked proudly down upon all of her rivals. Of these ambitious towns some have passed,
                    not only from existence, but from the very memory of the succeeding generation, and others,
                    overborne by the trend of events, have long since ceased to aspire.
                The making of 
                        Lafayette
                     was the fact of its location at the head of navigation. Steamboats from 
                        New Orleans
                    , bringing commodities to the heart of this new country, could not penetrate beyond the
                    mouth of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , and so "Lay Flat" became the great receiving and distributing point for the country
                    about, which drained into it a vast surplus of grain and hogs. During the thirties it was the
                    largest and most important city northwest of 
                        Cincinnati
                    ; its streets were crowded with teams; some coming from as far east as the 
                        Ohio
                     state line, and one writer tells us of no less than sixteen steamboats lying at her
                    wharves at one time.
                Despite the thrift at this point, however, the country above developed slowly because of inadequate
                    communication with the outer world. Towns farther up the river, such as 
                        Logansport
                     and Peru, were constrained to "play second fiddle" to their more fortunate rival, and
                    the desire of these places to have navigation reach them was so desperate as to be ludicrous. A
                    bonus of several hundred dollars was offered to the first steamboat captain who would prove such
                    navigability, and heroic efforts were made to that end. In June of 1834, the water being high, a
                    little  steamer called the Republican "set sail" from 
                        Lafayette
                    , bound for 
                        Logansport
                    . She proceeded without trouble as far as Delphi, then began to stick on various
                    sandbars, at each of which delays the passengers would render assistance by getting out into the
                    water and pushing, or by extending a long rope to shore and pulling. Several days were expended at
                    this arduous toil, much to the entertainment of througs of Indians, men, women and children, who
                    loitered along the banks admiring the strange craft. Eventually, a dozen yoke of oxen were brought
                    down from 
                        Logansport
                     and the Republican hauled bodily over ripples and sandbars to her destination. The boat
                    was ruined and left to rot in the bottom of the river at the newly-established head of navigation,
                    and whether the bonus received compensated the captain for his loss history does not say. A year
                    later another boat, the Science, made the attempt. The water being unusually high, 
                        Logansport
                     was safely reached. Here a lot of additional passengers were taken on, and the Science
                    went merrily on and up. Trying to ascend a rapids the swift current got control of the boat, which,
                    carried helplessly backward, narrowly escaped being battered to pieces, much to the terror and panic
                    of those on board. Returning to 
                        Logansport
                    , they unloaded about two hundred barrels of flour and salt; then the passengers walked
                    around the rapids, meeting the boat above, and at length 
                        Peru
                     was made. Here a fracas occurred between some of the Peruvians and a part of the 
                        Logansport
                     contingent; a crowd of bellicose Irishmen, who were working on the canal there, unable
                    to resist this opportunity to indulge their favorite passion, came to take a hand, and the capain of
                    the Science, deeming prudence a virtue, "put to sea" again, leaving part of his passengers to find
                    their way back home as best they could. Excursions in those days were even more delightful than they
                    are now.∗
                
                But the day of glory for this region was yet to dawn. The grand scheme for the internal improvement
                    of Indiana projected as early as the twenties, contemplated, first of all, a navigable waterway that
                    should connect Lake Erie with the lower 
                        Wabash
                    , and in time this dream became a fact. In 1843 the great 
                        Wabash
                    
                    
                        
                            ∗Much of the above information is got from Sanford Cox's "Recollections
                            of the Early Settlement of the Wabash Valley"—one of our best and most entertaining books of
                            local reminiscences.
                    
                     and Erie canal, after long labor and many ups and downs, was
                    completed, and the occasion duly commemorated by barbecues, speeches and general rejoicings. A large
                    number of freight and packet boats at once made their appearance, infusing new life into all the
                    little river towns. The abundant agricultural wealth of the 
                        Wabash
                     country now found comparatively cheap and easy transportation directly to the East; the
                    regions north and south for a distance of fifty to a hundred miles gravitated to this outlet, and
                    from the 
                        Illinois
                     country, westward, to 
                        Lafayette
                     came flocking the great prairie schooners laden with their contributions to the world's
                    marts. Westward, in turn, came the capacious freight boats laden with merchandise of all kinds, and
                    the packets with emigrants who, now having access to this land of promise, came in an uninterruped
                    tide, adding to the new currents of life. Towns along the river which, heretofore, could have only a
                    broken and restricted intercourse with each other, were now regularly connected, and traveling was
                    made possible to the multitude. And it was idyllic and picturesque traveling. People not given to
                    the frantic haste of the present day were content to spend leisurely hours sitting in pleasant
                    company on the deck or in the cabin of the smoothly-gliding packet. Passengers got acquainted and
                    fraternized, played games, discoursed, argued, and, no doubt, made love, and when the boat was
                    delayed it was quite common for congenial couples or groups to step off and stroll on ahead,
                    gathering wild flowers as they went. Yet movement, bustle and excitement, were not lacking. The
                    speed of the best packets was about eight miles an hour, and one writer gives us a picture of the
                    swaggering driver in a slouch hat and top boots, lashing his team to a sharp trot. On approaching a
                    town there was a great blowing of horns from the deck, and when dock was made everybody went ashore
                    to mingle with the townsmen, to ask and answer innumerable questions, and to descend upon the public
                    houses, presumably for fluid refreshments. When the boat was ready to go a horn was blown again to
                    warn the passengers aboard, and on they fared to the next stopping place.
                An Englishman named Beste, who, with his family, traveled through here early in the fifties,
                    describes his trip from Terre  Haute to the lake and gives
                    interesting glimpses of the people.∗ Being an Englishman of position this
                    traveler could not understand the rather brusque anti-aristocratic notions which frequently shocked
                    and pained him. The children, according to him, were independent and pert, while their elders were
                    inordinately jealous of their doctrine of equality and rights, and he dwells with some severity on
                    their rudenesses and crudenesses. Among other things, he mentions that the chewing of "Burgandy
                    pitch" was a universal habit among the women.
                The ordinary course of travel was sometimes retarded by mishaps to the canal, which, at some points,
                    ran between levees or dikes, instead of through an excavated channel, and not infrequently these
                    levees, springing a leak, let the water unceremoniously into the low lands without, in which case
                    the boats lay in the mud till the break was repaired. Among the unusual happenings recounted is that
                    of the wreck of the packet boat 
                        Kentucky
                    , in 1844. A mill-dam giving way in the high country back from the canal let loose a
                    great flood which, sweeping down to the canal, broke through the tow-path at one of these embanked
                    points. The packet mentioned was carried bodily through the gap, washed down into the river bottoms,
                    which were submerged with a freshet, and broken to pieces among the trees. Three of the passengers
                    were drowned. The others were rescued by the people of the vicinity, but the baggage and mails were
                    swept away and lost.
                The canal was continued south to 
                        Evansville
                    , but the lower part never attained an importance comparable to the upper, and soon fell
                    into disuse. And the upper part, incalculably important though it was in its time, was destined to
                    speedily have its day. It was some eleven years in the making, and thirteen years later the 
                        Toledo
                     & 
                        Wabash
                     Railroad was completed along its line to 
                        Lafayette
                    . The ushering in of the railroad era gave a new turn to the tide of affairs; now all is
                    changed, and the old picturesque phase of life which formed so interesting a chapter in our State's
                    history is all but forgotton, save by the lingering remnants of the past generation.—G. S. C.
                
                    
                        ∗"The 
                            Wabash
                        , or, Adventures of an English Gentleman's Family in the Interior of America," by J.
                        Richard, Beste, Esq.
                
            
            
            
                Some Letters of John Gibson
                [The following letters of John Gibson are not published, we believe, in in any existing sketch of
                    him. They were written in September, 1812, when Gibson was Acting-Governor of the Indiana Territory.
                    War with 
                        England
                     had been declared the previous June, the frontier of the northwest had become involved,
                    Fort Harrison on the 
                        Wabash
                    , commanded by Captain Zachary Taylor (afterward President Taylor) had been invested by
                    a formidable body of Indians, and these official fragments show Gibson's prompt steps in the
                    exigency. Copies of the letters were found among the papers of the late William Wesley Woollen.]
                THE day after the Indian attack on Fort Harrison (Sept. 4, 1812), and before the news of it reached
                    Governor Gibson, he had written "To the officer commanding the quota of militia of 
                        Kentucky
                     destined for 
                        Vincennes
                    " requesting that 
                        Kentucky
                     troops, conformable to the orders of Governor Harrison, be sent as expeditiously as
                    possible to 
                        Vincennes
                    . This was in anticipation of Indian troubles. Brigadier General J. Winlock, commanding
                    the forces at 
                        Louisville
                    , replied to the letter stating that one of the regiments called for had been taken "on
                    toward 
                        Fort Wayne
                     by Governor Harrison," and that he lacked the necessary equipage for the remainder of
                    his troops, there being but 300 muskets, 200 pounds of powder, 20 camp kettles and 300 flints for
                    upward of six hundred men. Having no public money at his command he found great difficulty in
                    supplying the deficiency, but hoped to be able to march by Sept. 10.
                Before the latter date Gibson, then apprised of the Fort Harrison investment, wrote again, as
                    follows: 
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Vincennes
                                        , September 9th 1812.
                                
                                SIR:—On the 4th inst. I wrote you requesting the immediate march
                                    of the troops destined for this place, and on the following day I sent a verbal
                                    message by Lieut. Whitlock requesting you to have all your heavy baggage under the
                                    charge of a guard and proceed with all possible dispatch to this place, as the
                                    Indians have invested Fort Harrison and commenced an attack on the frontiers. It is
                                    indispensably necessary that no time should be lost in your march hither, as there
                                    can be but little or no danger between this and 
                                        Louisville
                                    , except from small skulking parties.  If your baggage should in the least retard your march leave it to come on under a
                                    safeguard, and proceed yourself with the troops under your command with all the
                                    speed you can.
                                Yours, JOHN GIBSON, Acting
                                        Governor.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                On the twentieth of September General Winlock wrote from his encampment on "White River, 16 miles from 
                        Vincennes
                    ," that he would be at 
                        Vincennes
                     on Tuesday, at 12 o'clock with 640 men, and that some 600 more, mounted, would be with
                    him the next day; for which force he wished some provision would be made.
                At the same time he wrote to General Winlock Gibson dispatched the following letter to General Samuel
                    Hopkins, "or the officer commanding the militia of 
                        Henderson County
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    ."
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Vincennes
                                    , September 9th, 1812.
                                
                                SIR:—The Indians have invested Fort Harrison, and have attacked
                                    the frontiers of one of the counties and killed upward of twelve persons. From the
                                    number of hostile Indians within the reach of the frontiers of this and the adjacent
                                    territory, a general attack is greatly to be apprehended. But a small force has yet
                                    arrived from the State of 
                                        Kentucky
                                    , and the thinness of our population and the extent of our frontiers
                                    render it difficult if not impossible, to raise such a force here as is necessary to
                                    protect our settlements. Under the circumstances we must look to volunteers from 
                                        Kentucky
                                     for assistance. The exigency is such as to preclude the possibility of
                                    applying for aid from your quarter through the proper channel. But if there are any
                                    in your county or the settlements adjacent to it, who are disposed to volunteer I do
                                    not believe that the Governor of the State of 
                                        Kentucky
                                     would object to it. May I therefore ask the favor of you to use your
                                    best endeavors to raise as many volunteers as can be conveniently obtained. I shall
                                    apprise the Governor of 
                                        Kentucky
                                     of this application.
                                I am respectfully, Sir, your obt. servt., JOHN GIBSON, Acting Governor.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                In response to this Col. Philip Barbour, commanding the 6th regiment of 
                        Kentucky
                     volunteers, dispatched to Gibson 241 men under Major William R. McGary, "armed as well
                    as the nature of the case would admit of." Arms and ammunition for this force were secured by
                    impressment, and the balance of the regiment was promised as soon as equipment was supplied.
                The following letter is to Col. William Russel, of the United States army:
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Vincennes
                                        
                                    , September 16, 1812.
                                
                                SIR:—Yesterday at 4 o'clock in the afternoon a Sergt.(?) of Capt.
                                    Taylor's company arrived here express from Ft. Harrison, who informed us that he had
                                    left the fort on the 13 inst. in the night. I also rec'd two letters from Capt.
                                    Taylor. He informs me that after a severe attack made on him by the Indians, which
                                    lasted seven hours, he was still able to maintain his garrison. It will be
                                    unnecessary to give you the particulars of the Captain's Letters, as I expect before
                                    this reaches you you will have seen him. I expect to load in a few days a number of
                                    wagons with flour and whiskey. These with 25 beeves for the garrison will start
                                    immediately. Major McGary who arrived here yesterday with 240 men of Col. Barbour's
                                    Regt. of Ky. Militia will take command of the escort which goes with the provisions
                                    and cattle destined for Ft. Harrison. The escort will consist of thirty mounted
                                    riflemen and one hundred infantry. I have directed the Major to proceed with the
                                    utmost precaution to Ft. Harrison; that, should he meet you on the way or at Ft.
                                    Harrison, he is to obey any orders you may please to give him. I rec'd a letter from
                                    General Winlock dated at 
                                        Louisville
                                     Sept. 12. He informs us that he would march with all possible speed to
                                    this place. The Ranger who brought the letter informs me that General Winlock on the
                                    13th was two miles on this side 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                    . Major McGary informs me that one thousand mounted horsemen from 
                                        Kentucky
                                     would randezvous at Red Bank on Sunday next, and were to proceed to
                                    this place under the command of General Hopkins, and that the remainder of Col.
                                    Barbour's regt. would also march to this place as soon as they recieve arms, which
                                    were hourly expected to arrive at that place. I am in great hopes before you  receive this you will have entered Ft. Harrison
                                    and been able to clear your way to that place.
                                I enclose a number of letters which I rec'd by mail and by 2 rangers which I sent
                                    express to Gov'r. Edwards and to you.
                                I have the honor to be very respectfully your humble svt. JNO.
                                        GIBSON, Acting Governor.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                One other letter among these MSS., dated a few days previous, and addressed to Col. Robert Robertson,
                    concerns the protection of the 
                        Clark County
                     frontier.
                On the 12th of September 1812, Governor Gibson addressed Colonel Robertson, as follows:
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Vincennes
                                        ,
                                    September 12, 1812.
                                
                                SIR:—If the company ordered from your regiments should not have
                                    marched to this place, you will immediately order that company or some other to the
                                    frontier of 
                                        Clark County
                                     to act in conjunction with one ordered from 
                                        Harrison County
                                    . I shall leave it to your own discretion to dispose of the men to the
                                    best advantage, taking care to have an eye to Linley's settlement and the Drift Wood
                                    and Pigeon Roost Settlements. Should there be no person authorized in your county by
                                    the Contractor to furnish provisions you will please have them furnished and they
                                    will be paid for at the contract price.
                                You will give particular orders to the officers commanding to employ their men
                                    continually in reconnoitering and scouring through the country or the frontier and
                                    should anything extraordinary or alarming occur, you will give me the earliest
                                    information thereof by express.
                                I am respectfully your obt. servt., JNO. GIBSON, Acting Governor.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
            
            
            
                Historical Relics the State should Own
                THERE are in our State, in private possession, at least a few collections of historical value which
                    should, if possible, be made public possessions and be accessible to all that are interested in
                    such. Two of these collections we particularly have in mind. One is the paintings of George Winter,
                    the 
                        Lafayette
                     artist, spoken of elsewhere in this number. When we saw these they were held by Mr.
                    Winter's daughter, Mrs. C. G. Ball, of 
                        Lafayette
                    , and were of unique interest. Being, in large part, portraits of notable Pottawattomie
                    and Miami Indians and of their dress and customs, and being accompanied by keys and much information
                    in manuscript form from Mr. Winter's pen, it is altogether desirable that they be owned by the State
                    as relics of the picturesque race that once owned and trod our soil.
                The other collection is that of Mr. Charles B. Lasselle, of 
                        Logansport
                    . Mr. Lasselle, who, we believe, is still living, is of an old French family, which has
                    been intimately identified with the 
                        Wabash
                     region since Revolutionary times. His grandfather was a trader at the Indian town of
                    Kekionga (
                        Fort Wayne
                    ) long before Anthony Wayne's subjugation of the Northwestern tribes. His father,
                    Hyacinthe Lasselle, during his life was a substantial citizen of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , 
                        Vincennes
                     and 
                        Logansport
                    , and this scion of the third generation has himself helped make the history of the
                    great valley since pioneer times. The historic instinct, and the disposition to preserve what might
                    be of possible future value, seems to have inhered in the Lasselles. As the result of long hoarding
                    the present member of the family has in his possession enough documents and relics of real historic
                    interest to astonish one. First, there are hundreds of letters, business accounts and miscellaneous
                    papers, reflecting trade and life along the 
                        Wabash
                     since the last century. It is the kind of material that the thorough historian, working
                    to modern methods, is most in search of—the kind that throws sidelights and reveals intimate
                    glimpses of past conditions. Here, for example, is an old account-book of Francis Bosseron,
                    storekeeper at 
                        Vincennes
                     when Captain Helm under the instruction of George Rogers Clark, held that post. In it
                    is a page devoted to Helm's private purchases, such as "one 
                    chapeau," "one capote," playing cards, and frequent bottles of "taffia" and "eu de vie." There is
                    also a page charging the State of 
                        Virginia
                    , through Captain Helm, with divers articles and services, among them "five ells of red
                    silk," and "3 ¾ ells of green silk for a flag," and along with this the claim of one Madam Goderre
                    for making the flag. Full of interest are these few words touching this red-and-green flag which
                    was, perhaps, the first symbol of the nation ever planted in 
                        Indiana
                    .
                Apropos to this place and period there is, also, the liquor chest of General Hamilton, the English
                    Governor of the 
                        Vincennes
                     post, who captured Helm, and was in turn captured by Clark. It is a mahogany box about
                    eighteen inches square, partitioned into nine smaller squares for as many liquor decanters. Of these
                    only one now remains—the apple-toddy bottle. Those familiar with Clark's famous siege, will remember
                    the story of Hamilton and his prisoner, Helm, sitting sociably together by the open fire, watching
                    an apple toddy brew, when the rifle fusillade began and the bullets pecking at the chimney threw
                    down dirt and spoiled the brew. This antique piece of glassware is, most likely the identical bottle
                    used on that memorable occasion. General Hamilton gave the chest to Francis Bosseron, and after
                    various changes of ownership, carefully recorded, it was secured by Mr. Lasselle.
                Along with these may be mentioned a plat of 
                        Vincennes
                    , made in 1792, each lot marked with the holder's name, also original document relating
                    to French families of 
                        Vincennes
                    , genealogical tables of 
                        Vincennes
                     and Kaskaskia, and many other papers of similar character. Not the least interesting of
                    the many relics is the great parchment treaty document, given by the United States to the Miami
                    Indians at the treaty of St. Mary, in 1818, when the central portion of the State, as far north as
                    the Wabash River, was purchased. This
                    instrument, bearing the signatures of Jonathan Jennings, Lewis Cass and Benjamin Parke,
                    commissioners; William and John Conner, interpreters, and the marks of the various chiefs that
                    represented their tribe, was delivered to John B. Richardville, the Miami head chief, and finally
                    came into the Lasselle family through marriage relations.
                These are but a part of the things treasured up by Mr.  Lasselle.
                    Whether or not they are now for sale, we are not authorized to say; but the indications are that
                    some day they will be scattered and lost. The point to be made is that the collection now exists,
                    that its value is such the State could well afford to make a generous bid for it, and that no step
                    whatever is taken to secure it.
                In this connection it may be said that the State quite unnecessarily lost the large collection of
                    books and relics of the late Judge Horace P. Biddle, also of 
                        Logansport
                    . Besides the relies and pictures which Mr. Biddle had long been collecting his library
                    consisted of some 8,000 volumes, representing a money value of $15,000. At least 3,000 of these
                    volumes were rare works not to be easily found elsewhere, which students came from afar to consult.
                    When James D. Williams was Governor Mr. Biddle proposed that the State agree to take his entire
                    library at his death at 10 cents a volume. Governor Williams, according to Mr. Biddle, twice
                    recommended in his messages that the Legislature take advantage of the offer, but no notice whatever
                    was taken of the proposition.
            
            
                The Howe Collection
                THE "Howe Collection," now in possession of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Public Library, consists of books and pamphlets relating to Indiana and affairs in 
                        Indiana
                    , and is in itself a library of rare value. The collector, Judge Daniel Waite Howe, has
                    been one of the few who realize that not only old and scarce books are worth securing but that the
                    seemingly valueless records of to-day have a value on the morrow; much that others threw away he had
                    the foresight to save; as a result much of this collection, particularly the pamphlets, is not, as a
                    collection, duplicated anywhere, and of many of the individual pamphlets it would be exceedingly
                    difficult to now find other copies. The gathering up of these has been the work of years, and they
                    were donated to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     library on the condition that they be kept intact and designated as "The Howe
                    Collection." There are 534 volumes, many of which are pamphlets bound together, and 52 unbound
                    pamphlets.
                
                A complete catalogue of this material occupies too much space to be given here, but its general
                    character, briefly indicated, may point the way to matter some student is in search of. A full and
                    separate catalogue is furnished at the library.
                Of the laws of Indiana there is a complete set of Laws of the Governors and Judges, from the Ist to
                    the 4th sessions (1801-'03); also Territorial Laws from 1805 to 1815, with revision of 1807.
                Of other works of a legal and legislative character there are Court Reports, Digests, Citations,
                    General and Special Compilations, Session Laws, Pleading, Practice, etc., Ordinances of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Journals and Proceedings of the Constitutional Conventions, House and Senate Journals
                    almost complete from 1816, Documentary Journals and Annual Reports, Brevier Legislative Reports,
                    complete (1852-1887), and Reports of State Officers.
                Of miscellaneous works there are State and local Directories and Gazetteers, many State and County
                    Atlases and Histories, Church and College Histories, and rare books too varied to specify.
                Of the large number of pamphlets, bound and unbound, there are many Biographies not to be found
                    elsewhere, Addresses, Papers, Sketches, Reports of Conventions, Church and College Documents,
                    Proceedings, Records and Reports of Societies, Essays, Articles preserved from Magazines, and many
                    publications of various kinds relating to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . To the coming historian who essays to bring the story of the city down to date these 
                        Indianapolis
                     pamphlets, indeed, will afford invaluable material, reflecting, as they do, the thought
                    and movements of the times even more circumstantially than does the newspaper press. It is the kind
                    of material that is essential to accuracy and that is yet more ephemeral, even, than the newspapers,
                    for preserved files of the latter usually can be found, whereas pamphlet literature is rarely deemed
                    worth the collecting.
                A particularly valuable volume for one making a study of the State's internal improvement system of
                    seventy years ago, is a compilation made by the late John B. Dillon of official reports and other
                    documents, which form much of the material for a history of that movement.
            
            
            
                Betsy Ross Descendants in 
                        Indiana
                    
                
                [Since these descendants have been traced some of them, it is probable, have changed their
                    locations.]
                THE story of the first Stars and Stripes has been repeatedly told in periodical literature, though if
                    one refers to the general histories, it is surprising how little is found. Even the "Archives of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    " and "Watson's Annals of 
                        Philadelphia
                    ," which aim to rescue from oblivion all the minor events of interest, tell us nothing
                    of the woman who lived and died and made the first flags for the Union in 
                        Philadelphia
                    . The Story, told briefly, is as follows:
                In June of 1777 the American Congress adopted our national flag of thirteen stripes and thirteen
                    stars. The very first one made embodying this design was the handiwork of sundry patriotic ladies of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , and it was flung to the breeze from the mast-head of Commodore Paul Jone's ship, the
                    Ranger. In this flag the stars were six-pointed. Then a committee was appointed by Congress to
                    select an official flag maker.
                This committee, accompanied by General Washington, waited on Mrs. John Ross, a young woman noted for
                    her skill in needlework, and a niece, by marriage, to Colonel George Ross, one of the committee.
                    Washington drew the design of the flag for her, but she objected to the six-pointed star, terming it
                    a "British" star. Folding a piece of paper, she produced one of five points, as preferable. The
                    amendment was accepted, and such a star it has been since.
                There, in a little brick house built two centuries ago and still standing (unless recently torn down)
                    in Arch street, 
                        Philadelphia
                    , the earliest flags used by the nation were made. The first of these floated over
                    Washington's victorious army when Burgoyne surrendered in October, 1777. Among the relics that have
                    been preserved is an official order to pay Betsy Ross £14 12S 2d for making flags for the fleet in
                    the Delaware river.
                Betsy Ross was married three times, her last husband being John Claypole. Three daughters are
                    mentioned, at least two of whom were full sisters, Claypole by name. These two sisters represent two
                    lines of descendants. One of the branches, tracing  its ancestry
                    to Clarissa Sidney Claypole, has members in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , 
                        New Orleans
                    , 
                        Charleston
                    , 
                        S. C.
                    , and in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the latter being Mrs. J. L. Jackson and her children.
                The other branch, which has been traced by Mrs. M. C. Thayer, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , daughter of James Conwell, has contributed considerably to the population of this
                    State. Rebekah Walpole, the other sister, married Abraham Conwell, and four grandsons of this
                    couple—James, William, Isaac and A. B. Conwell, came to 
                        Indiana
                     at an early day. All settled in the Whitewater region—James in 
                        Franklin county
                    , near where Laurel now stands; William at 
                        Cambridge City
                    ; Isaac at Liberty, and A. B. at 
                        Connersville
                    . All were merchants and successful business men.
                James Conwell, who was married twice, had a large family, chiefly daughters. Of these no less than
                    eight married in 
                        Indiana
                    , and their children and grandchildren are to be found in a number of 
                        Indiana
                     towns. So far as we can determine, there are in 
                        Richmond
                    , 2—Mrs. C. S. W. Ross and her daughter, Miss Ella Ross; in 
                        Fairland
                    , 
                        Franklin County
                    , 9—Louise Burnside, Lynn Burnside and three children, Mrs. Winnie B. Carson and two
                    children, and Mrs. Nora B. Enyart; in 
                        Rushville
                    , 9—Mrs. Fannie Smith, Dr. Will Smith and one child, Walter Smith, Mrs. John Frazee and
                    two children, Mrs. Will Percy and one child; in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 8—Mrs. Maria C. Thayer and daughter, Miss Laurel Thayer, Mrs. J. C. Smith and three
                    children, and Mrs. J. E. Fish and one child; in 
                        Anderson
                    , 3—Mrs. Charles T. Dox-ey, Thomas N. Stillwell and Horace Stillwell. Of the William
                    Conwell branch there is one grandson at 
                        Portland
                    . Of the Isaac Conwell branch there are two daughters—Ann Rebecca Conwell and Mrs. Mary
                    Jones, in 
                        Anderson
                    , and Dr. Horace Jones, Dr. William Jones and a sister, either at 
                        Anderson
                     or 
                         Noblesville
                    .
                A. B. Conwell, the fourth of the pioneer brothers, who settled in 
                        Connersville
                    , is now represented there by not less than twelve descendants—one daughter, Mrs. Anna
                    Merril; four grand-children, John Merril, William Merril, Conwell Merril and their sister, and seven
                    great-grandchildren. There is also another sister, a Mrs. Havens, in 
                        Rushville
                    .
                In addition to these we are informed of Mrs. Andrew J. King  and
                    her son, G. Ray King, of 
                        Brookville
                    .
                In tracing this family tree, it is interesting to note that individuals of musical and poetic talent
                    have cropped out all along the line, and in the Clarissa Claypool branch there has been at least one
                    representive in each generation who seems to have inherited Betsey Ross's talent for needlework.
            
            
                Revolutionary Soldiers in 
                        Indiana
                    
                
                IN our last issue we published an article on the Revolutionary soldiers who ended their days in 
                        Putnam County
                    , this State. Apropos to the subject we here reprint from the 
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         News a condensed account of Revolutionary graves in southern Indiana as
                    located by the researches of Piankeshaw Chapter, D. A. R.
                "Piankeshaw Chapter, Daughters of the American Revolution, of 
                        New Albany
                     has been one of the most active chapters in the State in marking the graves of
                    Revolutionary soldiers. The members have been for several years delving into village cemeteries and
                    private burial lots to discover these graves, and at the present time a total of thirty have been
                    found in 
                        Floyd
                     and the adjoining counties. 
                        Harrison county
                     leads with nineteen; Floyd has six; Washington, two, and Crawford, Scott and 
                        Orange
                     one each. A cluster of Revolutionary graves was found in 
                        Clark county
                    , and with the organization of Anne Rogers Clark Chapter, at 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , Piankeshaw Chapter courteously placed the graves under the care of that chapter. Of
                    the nine graves in 
                        Floyd county
                    , four are in Fairview cemetery, 
                        New Albany
                    . They are the last resting-places of Joseph Bell, a light infantryman, who fought seven
                    years in the Continental army.
                "He was born in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and moved to 
                        New Albany
                     in 1818, dying in 1848, at the age of ninety years. Not far from his grave is that of
                    Joshua Fowler, who died March 18, 1820. On his headstone is the inscription, "A Patriot of the
                    Revolution." In another grave rests Richard Lord Jones, who enlisted at the age of thirteen years as
                    a drummer. He was born in 
                        Connecticut
                     in 1761, and died in this city in 1852. The last of the four is  Benjamin Buckman, born in Hadly, Mass., in 1759, and died near 
                        Salem
                    , Ind., in 1842. He was buried at 
                        Salem
                    , but years later his body was brought to 
                        New Albany
                    . He was a prisoner at Quebec for six months and was with Washington when he crossed the
                        Delaware. For several years before
                    his death he walked from 
                        Salem
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                     to receive his pension. The other graves in 
                        Floyd county
                     are those of Jacob Garrison, buried at 
                        Galena
                    , and Gabriel Poindexter, at Floyd Knobs.
                In 
                        Harrison county
                     are the following graves: Charles Dyer, one miles southwest of Crandall; Joshua
                    Bennett, Samuel Raugh and Patrick Hunter, at Rehobeth; Hinsonn Johnson, Webster township; Peter
                    Deatrick and George Kron, at Elizabeth; Charles George, Indian Creek; David Trout, at Luther's
                    Chapel; John Williams, near 
                        Fredericksburg
                    ; John Smith, near Corydon; James Cooper, near 
                        Hancock
                    's Chapel; Henry Funk and Daniel Funk, near New Amsterdam; Abraham and Joseph Harman,
                    near Corydon, and John Long and Philip P. Stine, near Highfill. In 
                        Crawford county
                     is the grave of Jeremiah Wight, who is buried near Fredonia. Jacob Doan represents 
                        Washington county
                    , and is buried near Hardinsburg. 
                        Scott county
                     has the grave of one veteran, Amasa Mitchell, who is buried in Friendship cemetery,
                    near New 
                        Frankfort
                    . He was the youngest of seven brothers who served in the Revolution. The grave in 
                        Orange county
                     is that of William Moore, who is buried near 
                        Livonia
                    ."
                To this we may add that 
                        Marion County
                     claims several Revolutionary graves. Isaac Wilson, who came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1820 and died in 1823, is said to have been a veteran of both the Revolutionary war
                    and the war of 1812. He was buried in the front yard of his residence at the spot where North and
                    Maxwell street now intersect.
                It has been stated that Wilson was the only Revolutionary soldier buried in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , but in a communication to the 
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         News, August 10, 1898, Mr. J. H. B. Nowland claims four others—"Mr. Oliver,
                    father of the late Dandridge H. Oliver; Mr. Taffe, father of the late Hannibal Taffe; John George
                    and Edmund C. Johnson."
                All these, Mr. Nowland says, were buried "in or around this city," and adds that he collected the
                    pension of John George.
            
            
            
                Indiana University Forty Years Ago
                BY AMZI ATWATER
                
                (Read before the 
                            Monroe County
                         Historical Society)
                
                    The Early Courses—The Faculty and its Heavy Work—Literary Societies—Chapel
                        Exercises—Old-time Mischief—Estimate of Faculty—Traits of the Old Professors—Elisha
                    Ballantine.
                
                COMING to take pastoral care of the Christian Church of 
                        Bloomington
                     in January, 1865, I enrolled at once as a student in the University classed as a
                    Junior. It was not an unusual thing, in those days, for a student or a professor to fill a pulpit in
                    one of the churches. My ministerial predecessor James H. McCollough was also a student. Doctor T. A.
                    Wylie, at the time professor of Latin and Greek, was the regular minister of the Reformed
                    Presbyterian church which stood where the U. P. church now stands. Professor Elisha Ballantine, when
                    he returned to the University in 1867, preached some for the New School Presbyterian people, and
                    President Cyrus Nutt, who had once been paster of the Methodist church here and later a Presiding
                    Elder, preached much of the time somewhere on Sundays.
                Our present High School building is the same in outward form and nearly the same in internal
                    structure that it was when it stood as the only University building on the campus at the south end
                    of College Avenue. I use the term University, for that was its official designation, but there was
                    little about the institution to differentiate it from the ordinary western college except its small
                    law class of seven Seniors and eight Juniors taught by Professor Bicknell. The smallness of college
                    attendance was partly caused by the war of the rebellion which was then in full career and had drawn
                    away many both actual and prospective students to the Union army.
                There were two regular courses each leading to graduation and a degree, the one "classical," with
                    Greek and Latin as chief studies and the goal of A. B., the other "scientific," which required one
                    year less time and was generally supposed to be easier. There were 79 in the four regular classes
                    that year. Adding the 15 law students and it made 94. Summing up preparatory and all, the catalogue
                    of 1865 announced an attendance of 189.
                
                The faculty as shown by the catalogue of 1865 consisted of six members: Rev. Cyrus Nutt, D. D.,
                    Professor of Mental, Moral and Political Philosophy; Rev. Theophilus A. Wylie, A. M., Professor of
                    Greek and Latin; Daniel Kirkwood, L. L. D., Professor of Mathematics; Richard Owen, A. M., Professor
                    of Natural Philosophy and Chemistry; George A. Bicknell, L. L. D., Professor of Law; James Woodburn,
                    A. M., Adjunct Professor of Languages and Principal of the Preparatory Department. These six men men
                    covered the whole ground of University instruction as then provided for. Doctor Wylie besides
                    teaching the advanced Greek and Latin classes served the institution as librarian. The library,
                    having lost heavily by the fire a few years before (1854), was quite small, consisting of a few
                    hundred volumes (possibly a few thousand) procured since that disaster, the "Derby Donation" and
                    about a thousand volumes loaned to it by Dr. Richard Owen. This diminutive library found plenty of
                    space in the room on the second floor, west wing, which I think Prof. Kirkwood later on used as a
                    recitation room. Dr. Owen, while carrying all the Physics, Physiology, Geology and Chemistry also
                    (since Professor Marquis had lately resigned), taught all the German and French that was called for,
                    and the History, too, and was Secretary of the faculty besides. There was no need of a Registrar as
                    each professor recorded his own grades in a record book with his own hand, and performed any other
                    clerical work that was necessary.
                The contrast between then and now appears most striking when
                    President Bryan lately announces the University in an advertisement thus: "Twenty Departments,
                    co-educational, seventy-one members of the faculty," and the enrollment this year is found to be
                    1538.
                If you wish to be impressed still further with the change, pass through the present admirably
                    equipped chemical department in Wylie hall, then go down to the High School and peer into the little
                    dark basement furnace room at the east end of the building where Dr. Owen taught chemistry. But no
                    doubt many a good scholar got his chemical start there under the teaching of that admirable man.
                The catalogue of 1865 mentions three literary societies, but I have no recollection of a third. The
                    two that chiefly occupied  the ground were the Athenian and Philomathean, the one having a room in the east wing, third
                    floor, the other in the west. There was little difference in the merits of these organizations.
                    Believing as I then did (and do now) that a literary society offers the student an excellent means
                    of culture, I hastened to attend their meetings and soon found myself enrolled as an Athenian. I was
                    greatly surprised on entering the Athenian hall at seeing rows of boots (many of them cow-hide)
                    standing around the room. Some of the owners had put on slippers, others had socks as their only
                    foot wear. I must explain that boots were the regular thing for men in those days. Only women wore
                    shoes. On inquiry I learned that the society had lately bought a fine carpet and as 
                        Bloomington
                     walks were bad, they had adopted a protective rule that members should remove their
                    boots on entering the hall and attached a fine of ten cents for non-compliance. It was expected that
                    they would provide themselves slippers and some did so. The state of the atmosphere with a hot stove
                    and a score or two of empty boots and a lot of stocking-footed youngsters sitting around may easily
                    be imagined. Just before adjournment the program provided for the assessment of fines which the
                    president announced and the treasurer recorded unless the house by vote excused the offender. The
                    regular exercises of the society consisted chiefly of essays, declamations, debate, and sometimes of
                    extempore speaking. In this last named, the member would be called out and given a subject after
                    reaching the floor. It was the effect of this practice to teach a young man to invent his material
                    and think on his feet. Finally the critics report bestowed praise or blame (chiefly the latter) upon
                    each performance.
                It must be admitted that there was much of boyish crudity about the whole thing, but that was to be
                    expected. Some members would not be prepared and would be fined for failure. Some would take a
                    perfunctory part to avoid the fine. But there was always a goodly number of ambitious men who did
                    their best. The essays, probably, were the weakest part; the debate, perhaps, the strongest. But
                    here too, was a weakness. The program committee would sometimes report for debate one of those
                    comparative old questions (peurile to begin with and already worn threadbare) such as "Resolved
                    (every proposition for debate had  to begin with a ‘resolve’),
                    "That 
                        Columbus
                     was a greater man than Washington"—in debating which the great discoverer would be
                    praised and the first president belittled by the affirmative and vice versa as to the negative—or
                    again "Resolved, That the Indians have been treated worse than the Negroes," or still again,
                    "Resolved, That the pen is mightier than the sword." I remember ridiculing such questions and may
                    have partially succeeded in getting them discarded.
                The miscellaneous debate and contention over parliamentary rules and over the excusing or remitting
                    of fines would often hang on so long that the janitor, acting under instructions, would come up at
                    midnight and put out the lights, turn out the society, and lock the door.
                The fraternities were few in number and made but a comparatively small showing in those days. I think
                    the Betas, the Phi Delts and the Sigma Chis were all that were in existence. These had been running
                    for a few years. Their great aim, so far as an outsider could see, was to secure honors for their
                    members. This they strove to do through the literary societies of which they were members the same
                    as "The Barbs." They would have their candidates for "Twenty-Second-of-February Orator" and "Spring
                    Speakers" and for the society "Valedictory Exercises" just before commencement. "The Spring
                    Speakers" were the orators at the annual literary society exhibition. For these honors the frats
                    combined and contended often with success since they, though in the minority, were well organized.
                    Sometimes they were beaten when the Barbs had a strong leader. I think the fraternities had literary
                    exercises of their own the evening before the meeting of the regular literary society and drilled
                    themselves in debate to enable them to better meet their opponents next evening. They surely had
                    more literary ambition that the frats have to-day.
                An idea of the chapel exercises on both week days and Sundays will best be obtained from the
                    catalogue of 1865. Under the head of "Religious Services," you read:
                
                    The duties of each day, during term time; commence with religious services which all are
                        required to attend.
                    Every Sabbath at 3 o'clock p. m. a lecture on some  moral
                        or religious subject is delivered in the University chapel, and it is expected that all the
                        students will attend. It is also recommended by the faculty that the student attend some other
                        place of public worship on Sabbath morning according to the direction or preference of his
                        parents or guardian.
                    At all chapel exercises students are expected to be in their seats when the bell stops
                        tolling. As this rule of chapel attendance did not seem to be strictly in accord with the theory
                        of our State and country—no State religion and no compulsion as to attending its
                        ministrations—an exception was made in the case of those students who themselves or whose
                        parents were opposed to religious exercises. These were granted perpetual non-attendance.
                        Perhaps there were always a few such, not many.
                
                I think that mischief was more common forty years ago than now. It would be idle to attempt to
                    mention the various forms of trickery by which the restless student amused himself and annoyed the
                    authorities of college and town. If there has been a change for the better, how has it been brought
                    about? The general growth of the college away from crude and boyish conditions, and its development
                    into a higher University life has been, we may say, the chief general cause. The coming of the young
                    ladies has made a great change. It has developed the social element—a thing that may easily be
                    carried too far if it has not already been so—and has naturally tended to greater polish of manners
                    and refinement, drawing the young men away from the ruder and more outlandish sports, and has
                    brought them more and more to the social reception, the dance, and the banquet. In some respects
                    this appears to be a good thing, in some an evil. Can you eliminate the evil and retain the good?
                But perhaps the chief cause has been the rise of college athletics and the athletic spirit. This has
                    given the young men (yes, and the young ladies too) a new ambition for physical development—surely a
                    great desideratum. It has largely stopped the unhealthy bending over books for eighteen hours of the
                    twenty-four, as Tilghman H. Mallow did who, though he won high scholarship, destroyed his own life
                    in so doing. Futhermore vigorous young men have mostly ceased to plot some base trick, and are
                    filled with an eager desire to outclass and overcome their opponents at home and their rivals abroad
                    in physical force and  skill. They talk it at table and in their
                    rooms, and they yell it in chapel and on Jordan field and make it one of the chief things in
                    University life. This also may be overdone.
                As I come to speak of the faculty, I must think of them first as my teachers and then as my
                    associates.
                I took logic and mental philosophy with Dr. Nutt, Greek and Latin with Dr. Wylie, and physiology and
                    history with Dr. Owen. I found President Nutt a kind and fatherly man. He received students in a
                    friendly manner and always proved himself a friend and did everything for them that he could. He had
                    a good memory and was a fair teacher.
                I found Dr. Richard Owen an enthusiastic teacher of science. He had wall charts nearly covering the
                    sides of his recitation room presenting to the eye the great geological formations and periods and
                    the classification of the animal and vegetable kingdoms. No student of his will ever forget with
                    what enthusiasm he would start from his desk and with long pointer in hand pass rapidly round the
                    room and review his class upon the outlines—the Stratified Rocks and Unstratified Rocks; the terms,
                    Mesozoic, Paleozoic and Azoic; the classification of mammals, birds, reptiles and fishes; the
                    vertebrates, articulates, mollusks and radiates. The names of great scientists were often on his his
                    lips—Cuvier, Linnaeus, Audubon and the rest and, later, Darwin, Huxley, Tyndall and others, busts of
                    whom he placed in the new building that was afterward built and burned. If it is a part of a
                    teacher's business to force idle and indifferent students to learn, willing or unwilling, you would
                    not class Professor Owen as an ideal or even a good teacher. He was too unsuspicious for that. It
                    was his custom to call the members of the class alphabetically for recitation and if he was half
                    down the roll one day (and that was frequently the case) he would begin the next day at the same
                    point and go on in order to the end; so that the shirking student, knowing what to count on, made
                    his calculations and omitted preparations for the day that he did not expect to be called out. The
                    doctor was a most charming and instructive talker upon any subject that had come under his wide
                    observation. On that account students often asked questions (some did it, doubtless to consume time)
                    in answering which he was occasionally led far from the topic in hand.  But in most cases, the ideas, the information and real science acquired
                    by the digression was of more value than the regular book lesson of the day.
                My own experience as a student under Dr. Theophilus Wylie in Latin and Greek confirms what has so
                    often been said as to the versatility of his scholarship. He seemed perfectly at home in the
                    classics, as if they had been his life-long specialty; but when Professor Ballantine returned to the
                    University in 1867 as professor of Greek and Prof. Cyrus M. Dodd was elected professor of Latin, Dr.
                    Wylie took the chair of Natural Philosophy (or Physics as now named). At his entrance into the
                    faculty in 1837 his chair was called Natural Philosophy and Chemistry.
                But all the later years of his teaching were spent in the chair of Astronomy. Professor Kirkwood
                    never, so far as I remember, taught a class in that science, in which he had a world-wide
                    reputation. But later on, in the seventies, when Saturday morning lectures became the order,
                    Professor Kirkwood gave the students lectures on comets, meteors, etc., which were highly
                    appreciated. A student who should have met Doctor Wylie on the street in those days—a man of small
                    stature and weak voice and half diffident, unworldly manner certainly far from self-confidence—would
                    hardly have been able rightly to estimate him. In order to do so, he would need to visit him in his
                    rare old home and see him in the midst of his most interesting family and accept their generous
                    hospitality. He would thus see him surrounded by every indication of old time learning and
                    refinement such as few have enjoyed. He would see him in the midst of his books, his pictures, his
                    ancestral portraits and paintings and mementos of other times and scenes. Only thus would he realize
                    his hereditary touch with scholars, divines and great missionaries and the noble forces leading to
                    the world's advancement.
                On the death of Professor James Woodburn September 8, 1865, I was chosen to fill his place. The
                    salary of the position was $800. The regular professors, Dr. Wylie, Dr. Owen and Dr. Kirkwood had
                    $1100, President Nutt (I think) $1400 or $1500. If any one wonders at the smallness of these
                    salaries, let him remember that the fixed income of the University was only about $8,000, that the
                    first professors, Baynard R. Hall and John M. Harney received only $250 per year and that our common
                    country  school teachers in the forties received only about ten
                    to fifteen dollars a month for three months school, lady teachers often getting but $1 per week.
                The examinations held by the faculty (as far as I remember) were entirely oral and were not very
                    rigid. In language it would be required to translate some selection from an author and answer
                    pertinent questions in parsing and construction. Visiting members of the faculty would be invited to
                    quiz the class to test their scholarship. On subjects which would admit of it, numbered topics would
                    be made out to be drawn by lot from the professor's hat or hand. The student, when his number was
                    called, responded and went to talking on his topic. It was a pleasant way to examine and be examined
                    but it readily lent itself to the cheating tendency as students sitting close together could easily
                    swap topics in the hope of getting one less difficult than the one they had drawn. No professor was
                    more easy and yielding than Professor Kirkwood. I call to mind his report (probably made just before
                    commencement of 1866) of a student who had been away in the war. He said: "I asked him two
                    questions; he couldn't answer either of them. I didn't ask him any more—I knew he couldn't answer."
                    But when the decision finally came as to placing his name on the list of Seniors, the indulgent
                    professor voted for his graduation—and he was passed.
                In June 1868 I was chosen Professor of Latin and Greek in Hiram College (President Garfield's old
                    institution) where I had been a student some years before. Returning to Indiana University as
                    professor of Latin in September 1870 I found quite a change had taken place in college—the salaries
                    had been increased and new and able men were being added to the faculty. Professor Elisha Ballantine
                    was now (after a four years temporary absence) in the chair of Greek since 1867. Professor George W.
                    Hoss, who had lately been Superintendent of Public Instruction, was now since 1868 the Professor of
                    English Literature. Judge B. E. Rhoads was Professor of Law and Colonel James Thompson, lately from
                    the Army, had just been elected to the chair of Military Science and Civil Engineering; and a little
                    later (November 1870) Herman B. Boisen became Professor of Modern Languages. There was also young
                    Scot Butler, later President of 
                        Butler
                    
                     College, who was doing preparatory teaching with the
                    sub-freshman class. His work lasted through the year 1870–71.
                The new men brought in a tide of new life. Being usually younger they were more aggressive and full
                    of plans for reconstructing and improving old conditions. Some men have a natural liking and ability
                    for business administration. Such were Professor Hoss, Colonel Thompson, Judge Rhoads, Professor
                    Boisen and Scot Butler. Dr. Wylie and Professor Kirkwood (the latter was seldom called Doctor then)
                    now took but little part in Faculty discussions, though Professor Ballantine and Dr. Owen held their
                    own. Dr. Wylie often sat through the faculty meeting with only an occasional remark. But he would
                    have a pencil and paper in hand with which he would seem to be scribbling in an absent-minded way.
                    Look over his shoulder, if it will not be thought impolite. Why, he has drawn a picture, perhaps a
                    human face, with the hand of an artist. How often have I seen him sit down with a pamphlet or
                    catalogue and cover it over with such sketches. He seemed to do this work almost unconsciously. I
                    think he could have drawn a good group picture of the whole faculty at one sitting. Professor
                    Kirkwood was a good listener as he sat with his cane in hand supporting his arm. He said but little,
                    but occasionally we heard a bit of grave humor from him. Once when we were talking of our hotel
                    accommodations the Professor told a little experience: "A man on the train," said he "asked me about 
                        Bloomington
                     hotels, I told him we had two hotels in 
                        Bloomington
                    —whichever one he went to he would wish he had gone to the other."
                Professor Kirkwood was the main reliance in moving an adjournment. So much was this the case that
                    when some other member thought to do so he, perhaps, would begin: "Begging Professor Kirkwood's
                    pardon, I move we adjourn."
                In those days cases of discipline came before the whole faculty for investigation and decision. Those
                    who were accused of some misdoing and the witnesses were cited to the faculty room. There are
                    doubtless men now in public life—congressmen, judges, doctors, lawyers, etc., who can remember being
                    called before the faculty in some of these troublesome cases. Though sharp questions were fired at
                    the accused, the discipline on the whole  was just and mild. It
                    was too mild, sometimes for our military professor, Colonel Thompson. On one occasion when some
                    offender was let off quite easy against his protest he remarked "Our Catalogue says ‘the discipline
                    of the University is strictly paternal.’ I suggest that we change the wording for
                    the next catalogue and make it read "strictly maternal."
                ELISHA BALLANTINE.
                There is one man whose name has not been sufficiently dwelt upon either in these memories or by the
                    many eulogists who have written of the old faculty. We have had good teachers in the University but
                    Professor Ballantine was among the best; other good scholars we have had but he was among the very
                    best. He was, I think, more on his guard against cheating and deception than was Doctor Owen, Doctor
                    Kirkwood or Doctor Wylie. We have had and now have many men of noble character but none in this
                    respect could be placed higher than Elisha Ballantine. For cultivation of mind, for accuracy of
                    scholarship and ability to instruct; for literary style, for refinement of culture, for deep and
                    true conscientionness; for purity of heart and simple Christian dignity of manner and of life
                    Professor Ballantine stood on the highest plane. "Mark the perfect man and behold the upright," says
                    the wise old scripture, "for the end of that man is peace."
                He had resigned his chair of Greek but after a little had been recalled and had been made President
                    pro tem to meet an emergency. After the election of President Jordan he continued to teach Greek. On
                    the last day of his life (March 31-1886) he was at College as usual and conducted chapel exercises.
                    Coming in from his garden that afternoon with some felling of distress at the heart he dropped into
                    his easy chair. His faithful daughter came at call and ministered to him. But almost before she was
                    aware he had passed from earth.
            
            
            
                A Pleasing 
                        Morristown
                     Custom
                LITTLE 
                        Morristown
                    , in 
                        Shelby county
                    , enjoys the distinction of having developed a fraternal spirit all its own, and of
                    keeping alive an interest in the past in an unusual and pleasing way. For a third of a century the
                    older generation have come together the fourth Sunday of each May to spend the afternoon singing, as
                    of yore, from the famous old "
                        Missouri
                     Harmony" song book. Sixty or seventy years ago the singing school, with its expert
                    instructor, was a favorite form of social diversion, and the "
                        Missouri
                     Harmony" was a particularly popular book in these schools. Then, with a newer
                    generation, the singing classes passed away, but with the elder folks the ancient melodies,
                    presumably, had imperishable associations, for in 1872 the old 
                        Morristown
                     class, was reorganized under its first leader, Dr. D. S. McGaughey. Ever since then
                    they have held their annual meeting; the whole country-side makes it a gala occasion and turns out
                    in force to hear the sonorous bass and quavering treble of the aged singers. The venerable Dr.
                    McGaughey has long since joined the choir invisible, and year by year the ranks of the "charter
                    members" are thinning, but younger recruits have caught the spirit of the occasion, and the class
                    bids fair to continue.
                Still another observance of the same character, and in this same Morristown, further indicates the
                    spirit of the place. This is the periodical reunion of the Dr. Fitch pupils. Dr. O. F. Fitch, now
                    nearing his ninetieth year, was an educator, in 
                        Morristown
                     and elsewhere in the State, for many years, and it is his proud boast that upward of
                    six thousand pupils have been enrolled under him. It is like a capping sheaf to his labors that,
                    toward the end of a life of faithful service, a goodly number of these sometime pupils should come
                    gathering back to give him greeting. This they did a few years since, bringing with them their
                    resurrected school books; men and women, then themselves growing old, stood up before their former
                    preceptor once more and went through their "exercises," subject to his criticism. "School" was
                    followed by much feasting, after a picnic fashion; and this was the inauguration of a series of
                    reunions that, at the last account we had, bade fair to continue as long as Mr. Fitch lives. May
                    Morristown's pleasing custom be emulated elsewhere.
            
            
            
                The State Seal of Indiana
                A RECENT discussion in the 
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         News of the origin of the State seal of 
                        Indiana
                     (see News for January 28 and February 22, 1905), brings out some
                    interesting facts touching that rather obscure subject, though it leaves it as obscure as before.
                The first State Constitution provided that "There shall be a seal of this State, which shall be kept
                    by the Governor, and shall be used by him officially, and shall be called the seal of the State of 
                        Indiana
                    ," and on the 13th of December, 1816, the first legislature enacted that "The Governor
                    of this State be and he is hereby authorized to provide a seal and also ‘a press for this State, and
                    that a sum not exceeding one hundred dollars be and is hereby appropiated for that purpose, to be
                    paid out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropiated."
                These brief records have hitherto been regarded as about our only source of information concerning
                    the origin of our State seal, which has repeatedly been commented upon for its inappropriateness as
                    an emblem for 
                        Indiana
                    . The familiar picture of a man felling a tree, a fleeing buffalo, and a sun half hidden
                    by a mountainous horizon is manifested incongruous as regards the buffalo and mountains. The latter
                    have been variously explained as the Allegheny
                    mountains, as the Rockies
                    and as "the hills lying east of 
                        Vincennes
                    ," and the orb beyond them has been both the rising and the setting sun—the emblem of a
                    rising prosperity and of the star of empire taking its way westward. All of this, however, has been
                    mere guess-work.
                One of the newspaper writers above referred to has found that the House Journal of 1816 records a
                    discussion of the proposed seal which thus specifically defines the design: "A forest and a woodman
                    felling a tree, a buffalo leaving the forest and fleeing through the plain to a distant forest, and
                    the sun setting in the West, with the word 
                        Indiana
                    ." In this description the idea of the "setting" sun is explicitly stated, but no
                    mention whatever is made of mountains. Why they were introduced, if the seal was originated then and
                    in accordance with the law of  the first legislature, is nowise
                    apparent. But the fact seems to be that the seal, despite the evidence of the legislative records,
                    was not originated at that time; for it is affirmed by Mr. J. P. Dunn that on a slavery petition in
                    the archives at 
                        Washington
                    , dated 1802, is a copy of the seal of Indiana Territory which has the same general
                    features as the present emblem—woodman cutting a tree, buffalo, sun and mountains, with the word
                    "Indiana" on a scroll in the branches of the tree. A reprint of this document with a description of
                    the seal may be found in the publications of the 
                        Indiana
                     Historical Society, Volume II, pp. 461-469. This removes the whole question backward,
                    and the first State legislature, by this statement, did not originate the seal at all. As the seal
                    on the slavery papers antedated the Territorial legislature, and in the records of the first
                    territorial authorities there is no light on the subject, the question of origin will probably
                    always be mere speculation—particularly as the papers that might have established the facts were
                    long since destroyed. Mr. Dunn argues that the device was ordered in the east and brought to the new
                    territory by either Governor William Henry Harrison or Secretary John Gibson, more probably the
                    latter, as he conducted the government of the territory before the coming of Governor Harrison.
                Some ten years ago the legislature undertook to ascertain the origin of the seal and the authority of
                    the device, because of the various and different forms in use, whereas it was desirable that the
                    public business of the State should have a well-defined, and legally authorized seal. R. S. Hutcher,
                    the leading clerk of the Senate in 1895, an expert in such studies, was appointed a special
                    commissioner to investigate the matter and learn whether the State "has any legalized, authorized
                    great seal." The result of Mr. Hutcher's investigation was but to prove that little or nothing could
                    be known. There was even no record to show that the design agreed upon by the two houses in 1816 had
                    ever been formally adopted. Hutcher recommended that a more definite seal be established by
                    legislative action, but no such action was taken.
            
            
            
                Some Self-made Indianians
                OF the Indianians whose names are identified with the State's history an interesting proportion has
                    been composed of "self-made men," if by that definition we mean those that started as poor boys and,
                    without any aid or opportunities other than what they created by their own efforts, made their way
                    to the front.
                Of the twenty-five men, from Jennings to Hanley, who have occupied the Governor's office, at least
                    one third may be fairly considered as coming within this category. Ratliff Boone, our second chief
                    magistrate, was a pioneer boy of 
                        Kentucky
                    , who, in lieu of going to school, took up the gunsmith's trade. Noah Noble also grew up
                    in the wilds of 
                        Kentucky
                    , and was largely self taught. James Whitcomb was a farmer's son, and his portion was
                    "hard work and coarse fare," but he borrowed books and read them and made for himself a neighborhood
                    reputation for learning. By perseverance he fitted himself for college, and after entering school
                    maintained himself by teaching during vacations. Joseph A. Wright was a poor boy who aspired to a
                    college education. He entered the State University and paid his way by ringing the college bell and
                    doing janitor's work, by toiling in a brickyard, and even by gathering nuts from the woods. He also
                    did odd jobs of masonry, as is shown in the old college records. As an impecunious young lawyer,
                    after leaving college, he submitted a bid for carrying the mail from 
                        Brownstown
                     to 
                        Terre Haute
                    , offering to do it for $334 per annum, but he was too obscure to be considered, and a
                    better-known man, though now utterly forgotton, got the job at $398. Ashbel P. Willard taught school
                    and did cheap clerical work as a stepping-stone to politics. Oliver P. Morton was of a poor family.
                    He began life as a hatter's apprentice, and later, by frugal management, part of the time cooking
                    his own meals in his room, succeeded in getting two years of college training. James D. Williams was
                    reared as a pioneer farmer's boy, accustomed to hard manual labor, with but very little schooling,
                    and throughout his life he retained the character of a sturdy, homely son of the soil, although
                    almost continuously in the public service for nearly forty years. Isaac P. Gray, before entering
                    public life was a dry goods clerk; Alvin P. Hovey, a brick mason; Ira J. Chase, Claude Matthews  and James A. Mount, farmers. The two last named were farmers to
                    the end, and took pride in reckoning themselves of that class. Mr. Mount began with no capital but a
                    pair of willing hands and a will to do, and first made himself an eminent agriculturist.
                Of the men who have represented Indiana in the United States Senate a number were of the type under
                    consideration. James Noble, like his brother Noah, was a 
                        Kentucky
                     pioneer boy, accustomed to labor, who "grew up strong and self-reliant." John Tipton,
                    as a young man, was a woodsman and Indian fighter, illiterate, but a man of native intelligence, a
                    keen observer and a natural leader. Jesse D. Bright, with but little claim to education, made his
                    way by sheer will and his unusual talent for leadership. Daniel W. Voorhees, born of pioneer
                    parents, had his mother and himself to thank for his advancement, and the life of Albert J.
                    Beveridge is but the old story of a success which had for its antecedent the hard and humble life of
                    the farm.
                Of those otherwise prominent in our public service many might be cited as victors over adverse
                    conditions. James Rariden, lawyer and legislator, and one of the eminent men of the old White-water
                    region, started with but meager schooling, and the qualifications that gave him an exceptionally
                    high rank as a legal light were acquired in his contact with men. Charles H. Test, began as a
                    surveyor's assistant, and while earning his livelihood at this business he read law at odd hours and
                    by the the time he was twenty years old had qualified himself for admission to the bar. William W.
                    Wick, one of the best-known of Indiana's early judges, acquired some schooling as a boy, and when
                    eighteen years old left his home in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     to seek his fortunes. He made his way westward by degrees, supporting himself by
                    teaching here and there, and satisfying his thirst for knowledge as he could. He first studied
                    medicine, then read chemistry, as he said, "principally by the light of log heaps in a clearing,"
                    and also read law "of nights and Sundays." By his twenty-fourth year he had drifted to 
                        Connersville
                    , Indiana, and there settled himself as a practicing lawyer. John Wesley Davis, judge,
                    legislator, foreign minister, Governor of 
                        Oregon
                     Territory, Congressman and one of the three Indianians who have been Speaker of the
                    House in Congress, spent his boyhood on a farm, then was bound out as an apprentice to a
                    clock-maker.  After that he was a store-keeper, and then
                    practiced medicine until, when thirty years old, he found his proper sphere in politics. Tilghman A.
                    Howard, prominent in politics in this State for fourteen years, and regarded as an exceptionally
                    able man, is said to have received about a year's schooling all told, yet when, at the age of
                    nineteen, he left his 
                        North Carolina
                     home to make his way in the world, the first vocation he took up was that of teaching,
                    and his biographer tells us that although he "never attended an academy or a college, he was a very
                    learned man. He was acquainted with the civil law, with theology, history, politics, geology,
                    mineralogy, botany, philosophy and the occult sciences. His mind was a vast storehouse of knowledge,
                    it being questionable if there was another man in the State of equal information." Cyrus L. Dunham,
                    lawyer, legislator, Congressman and judge, paid for his early schooling with the money he earned
                    working out, and later, by taking service on a fishing smack, saved enough to give himself a short
                    course in a seminary. Michael C. Kerr, the second Indianian who was Speaker in Congress, was "mainly
                    self-educated," and "mastered the fundamental principles of jurisprudence and political philosophy,"
                    in the knowledge of which he afterward became a master, while teaching school. Schuyler Colfax, our
                    other Speaker in Congress, Vice-President of the 
                        United States
                    , and Congressman, began earning his living as a store clerk at the age of ten years,
                    and from that time made his own way. George W. Julian, well known in 
                        Indiana
                     for half a century, was born to a lot as hard and unpromising as that of Abraham
                    Lincoln. With an indomi table will, however, he overcame the difficulties, laboring with his hands
                    and teaching a country school while making the most of his precious books and laying the foundations
                    for his future public career. Walter Q. Gresham lost his father in infancy, and received but little
                    schooling as a boy. Joseph E. McDonald, 
                        United States
                     Senator, left the farm when twelve years old to learn the saddler's trade, and Franklin
                    Landers and J. P. C. Shanks, prominent 
                        Indiana
                     politicians, both hewed out their own fortunes. William A. Woods, Joseph A. S. Mitchell
                    and Asa Iglehart, eminent jurists, were all poor boys, born to toil, who worked their way to the
                    front by persistent effort.
            
            
            
                "The Northern Indiana"
                A Lake Steamer of 1852
                [The following sketch, found in an old periodical, was kindly sent to us by Mrs. Emma Carleton, of 
                        New Albany
                    .]
                IN 1852, on Lake Erie, was a passenger steam-boat named "The Northern 
                        Indiana
                    ." This boat is mentioned in a sketch entitled "An Excursion of One Thousand Miles Out
                    West," published in "The Literary World," of July 10, 1852, and written by a 
                        New York
                     participant in a "Stockholders' Excursion" over the "
                        Michigan
                     Southern and Northern 
                        Indiana
                     Railroad." Says this writer:
                "The company, when assembled at Dunkirk pier, numbered, we believe, some four hundred, all of whom
                    found ample room and accommodation in the splendid and spacions cabins of the ‘Northern 
                        Indiana
                    ’ ∗ ∗ ∗ Soon after we were settled on board, dinner, pleasant word to the traveler, was
                    announced. Those of the gentlemen who were happy enough to have ladies in charge, were soon summoned
                    to the dining-cabin, where tables, tastefully decorated with flowers, awaited their approach. ∗ ∗ It
                    was well remarked by a gentleman that the bill of fare furnished a most gratifying argument in favor
                    of railroads, for by no less potent an agent than steam could the varied excellencies of the fish,
                    flesh and fruits of so many distant regions be brought together.
                "The Northern 
                        Indiana
                     is the ‘crack’ boat of the lake, having lately beaten her powerful rival, the
                    Mayflower, in a run for the purpose of testifying their respective powers, from 
                        Buffalo
                     to 
                        Cleveland
                    . She is sharply built for speed, with engines of great power, and large and beautifully
                    decorated cabins."
                Of the country in northern 
                        Indiana
                    , as seen from the new railway, the writer said:
                "The vast wheat fields of Indiana and the general look of thrift and prosperity of the region through
                    which we passed excited universal admiration."
                
                    
                        Chicago
                     was then seven years old.
            
            
            
                Some Books at Hand
                
                    By the Editor
                
                THE NEW HARMONY MOVEMENT
                    ∗
                
                IN reading The 
                            New Harmony
                         Movement one marvels that so much rich material has lain so long, practically
                    unworked. Mr. Lockwood is to be congratulated that he has so large a field almost wholly to himself;
                    and, on the other hand, the interested reader is to be congratulated that the man who took up the
                    subject had the patience and ability to do it thoroughly and well. He has not grudged giving years
                    to the task. Originally, we believe, he essayed the work as a college thesis, which was subsequently
                    published in The Republican, of Peru, Ind., and in that form it was by far the
                    fullest treatise on the 
                        New Harmony
                     experiment that had hitherto appeared. Further research in the voluminous material
                    available resulted, some years later, in The 
                        New Harmony
                         Communities, a handsome, profusely-illustrated volume published by the author;
                    and the Appleton book, bearing the date 1905, though in cheaper form, represents still further
                    additions and revisions.
                Many are familiar, in a general way, with the story of Robert Owen, the Welsh philanthropist, who
                    invested his fortune in a great social experiment in the wilderness of 
                        Indiana
                     more than three-quarters of a century ago. The soaring social and educational aims of
                    that experiment, the impracticable dreams, the signal failures, and the unique life and remarkable
                    personages connected with the little town of 
                        New Harmony
                     on the 
                        Wabash
                    , all have passed into the limbo of vague and dimly known things; but, as often happens,
                    the things thus imperfectly remembered are not at all the more important facts of the occasion—the
                    facts that should be remembered. Robert Owen was not a mere impracticable theorist who squandered
                    his energies for want of ballast. He was one to have been loved and one to be loved now. His errors
                    of judgment (and some of them, no doubt, were remarkable) were as nothing compared with the spirit
                    that moved the man from first to last, prompting him to sacrifice himself and 
                        ∗"The 
                                New Harmony
                             Movement," by George B. Lockwood, with the collaboration of Charles A. Prosser
                            in the educational chapters. D. Appleton & Co., N. Y.
                    
                     his world's goods on the alter of a noble idea. In the
                    carefully-studied facts presented by Mr. Lockwood we nowhere find evidence that Owen sought
                    self-aggrandizement or expected gain. Contrariwise there is continuous evidence that he was
                    controlled by a desire that may be called an abiding passion to aid and uplift his fellow-men. This
                    benevolence was broad and universal, extending to all men regardless of color or creed, and
                    concerning itself alike with the helpless child facing its future and the helpless adult who was a
                    victim to social conditions. In the face of loss, of the faithlessness of associates, of
                    disappointments of many kinds; in spite of indifference, opposition and ingratitude, even from those
                    he sought most to benefit, he persisted in carrying out ideas that, always, were deep rooted in and
                    sustained by the craving to aid humanity. He was a true lover of his fellows. In a world where the
                    struggle for self even to the point of superfluity and grasping gain is the recognized normal thing
                    it ill-behooves those who have any strain of nobility to remember with a cynical or a superior smile
                    only the failures of a man like Robert Owen. Yet it seems to be one of the ironies of fate that he
                    who rebukes men by departing from the beaten track will be remembered by his failures when his
                    successes are forgotten. Owen's successes were of no mean character and scope. Before he came to
                    America he had, by the exercise of a paternal philanthropy, and as a cotton-mill operator, so
                    transformed for the better the town of 
                        New Lanark
                    , 
                        Scotland
                    , that "representatives of royalty, philanthropists, educators from all parts of Europe
                    journeyed thither to study the processes Mr. Owen had put in operation for the betterment of the
                    working people in his mills." He had found there the drunkenness, shiftlessness and dishonesty that
                    were inseparable from the conditions that prevailed among the working classes of that day—conditions
                    of ignorance and its accompanying vice as dense as obtained among the black slaves of America. By
                    meliorating those conditions he so far lifted the community out of its vices that a traveler who
                    visited the place wrote: "There is not, I apprehend, to be found in any part of the world a
                    manufacturing community in which so much order, good government, tranquillity and rational happiness
                    prevails." He sought the confidence and co-operation of his employes; he established for their
                    children schools far superior to most then  existing in the 
                        United Kingdom
                    ; he promoted comfort in the homes, and set up a store where goods could be secured at
                    cost, thus relieving his people of the exorbitant middleman's profits. In short, he did so much for
                    them that his partners in the mills refused to keep pace with him, even though the better class of
                    employes resulting from his methods made the business more lucrative than ever. Twice he dissolved
                    the partnership, each time forming a new one, and proceeded with his philanthropic work. With tongue
                    and pen as well as with money he fought the fight of the working man and particularly of the working
                    child, who then from tenderest years was doomed to factory servitude. Unfortunately for his cause he
                    felt impelled to intrude upon the public his religious, or, rather, anti-religious views— a crime
                    beside which all mere philanthropic effort counted as nothing, and it succeeded in forcing him out
                    of the Lanark mills, and undermined his influence in all circles. After this he stood for Parliament
                    in Lanark borough. The working men whose good he had promoted for nineteen years and who then had
                    the opportunity to send their best friend to court, saw fit to defeat him in favor of one who "more
                    loudly swore his fealty to the common people." Had it been otherwise Owen would never have
                    established his colony at 
                        New Harmony
                    . As it was, on the heels of this defeat came the proposition to purchase in America, at
                    a comparatively low figure, the great estate of the Rappists, where he might put his social ideas
                    into effect under what seemed ideal conditions. His acceptance of the proposition and his ensuing
                    experiment, together with that of his associate, William Maclure, is one of the pathetic chapters of
                    history, and is a most interesting study of certain aspects presented by man, individually and
                    collectively. The mingled wisdom and folly of the 
                        New Harmony
                     movement; the noble aspirations turned awry as if in jest by the hidden hand of a power
                    that willed othewise; the strange spectacle of what may be called a salon of the
                    world's elect gathered here in the heart of the pioneer west, and the influences that have radiated
                    and spread from this first wave set in motion by Robert Owen are, as we have already implied, well
                    and fully dealt with in Mr. Lockwood's book, and the social student will be well repaid by. a
                    careful study of it.
            
            
            
                ADDRESS ON THE POTTAWATTOMIE INDIANS
                    ∗
                
                This Address, written and delivered in support of a bill before our last legislature, failed in its
                    immediate object, as the bill did not pass, but as a monograph on the Pottawattomie Indians of
                    northern Indiana it is of such interest and value as to merit a place in any historical collection.
                    Mr. McDonald is regarded as, perhaps, our best authority on this particular subject. He has long
                    been a deeply interested, a conscientious and a sympathetic student of the vanished aborigines as
                    presented by the records and traditions of the locality where he was reared. And a study of this
                    tribe in its passing is a study of the Indian question in little. The story has in it much that was
                    pathetic and tragic, particulary to a large band located on 
                        Twin Lakes
                     (
                        Marshall county
                    ) under a chief called Menominee. Menominee was an Indian of unusual character, a friend
                    to the whites, a convert to Christianity, and a zealous promoter of good among his people. By a
                    treaty of 1832 twenty-two sections of land had been reserved to him and three other chiefs. When the
                    whites came for the reserved remnants (as they always did) Menominee declined to be tractable, and
                    sign away his land. As the other chiefs signed it, however, that was held to be sufficient, and at
                    the end of the time stipulated by the treaty the recalcitrant chief and his people were
                    unceremoniously ousted; their cabins were torn down, their mission chapel dismantled, and the whole
                    band, numbering nearly a thousand, put under a strong military escort commanded by General John
                    Tipton, to be conveyed to a reservation beyond the Mississippi river. Amid tears and lamentations they took
                    their departure. It was in September, the weather hot, the season dry and sickly. Suffering from the
                    swelter, dust and thirst the hapless Indians sickened like sheep and the long route was marked with
                    their graves. Particularly was there mortality among the small children; the ailing, jostled along
                    under the burning sun in rude army wagons, suffering for water and with no relief from the hard
                    ordeal, stood little chance, and almost every day some wronged mother surrendered her offspring to
                    earth.
                
                    
                        ∗Address of Representative Daniel McDonald, of 
                            Marshall county
                        , delivered in the House of Representatives, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Feb. 3. 1905, on the bill to erect a monument to the Pottawattomie Indians at 
                            Twin Lakes
                        , 
                            Marshall county
                        .
                
                
                In this Address of Mr. McDonald's, and particularly in another brochure issued by him some years
                    since (Removal of the Pottawattomie Indians from Northern Indiana) the reader
                    finds a circumstantial account of the matters here touched upon. In the earlier publication there is
                    also much information regarding individuals, both Indians and whites, connected with our earlier
                    history. The booklets, we believe, can be had by addressing Hon. Daniel McDonald, 
                        Plymouth
                    , 
                        Ind
                    .
                LAKE MAXINKUCKEE.
                The History of Lake Maxinkuckee, by Daniel McDonald, to which is appended "Fishes and Fishing in the
                    Lake," by Judge A. C. Capron, "The Maxinkuckee
                        Lake Association," by W. T. Wilson, and "The Aubbeenaubbee yacht Club," by T. H.
                    Wilson, Jr., is a handsome booklet designed to promote interest in what is regarded as one of
                    Indiana's finest lakes. The historical part contains considerable interesting lore about the first
                    settlers and the Indians who were located about the lake. Of particular interest are some
                    authoritative letters touching the name of the place. These letters, written to Mr. McDonald in
                    response to queries we here give:
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    Department of the Interior, 
                                            Washington, D. C.
                                        , Sept. 13, 1889.
                                
                                DEAR SIR: In reply to your letter of the 18th,
                                    I have to say that the lake referred to is spelled "Muk-sin-cuck-u" in the official
                                    field notes of the survey of the township in which the lake is situated.
                                Respectfully yours, W. M. STONE, Acting Commissioner.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    Auditor of State, 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , Ind., Sept. 27, 1897.
                                
                                DEAR SIR: On examination of our field notes I
                                    find in the survey made by Deputy Surveyor David Hillis he spells it
                                    "Mek-in-kee-kee." In another place in a survey of a small fraction of land on the
                                    lake Jerry Smith, deputy surveyor, spells it "Muk-sen-cuk-ee." This is all the field
                                    notes show as to the name.
                                Very truly yours, A. C. DAILY, Auditor of State.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    County Surveyor's Office, 
                                            Plymouth
                                        , 
                                            Ind.
                                        , Feb. 1, 1898.
                                
                                DEAR SIR: On examination of the records of the
                                    surveyor's office of 
                                        Marshall county
                                    , containing copies of the original field notes, I find the following in
                                    regard to the orthography of Max-inkuckee lake. On page 43 of the survey of towns 32
                                    and 33, David Hillis, deputy surveyor, makes the following note: "There are also
                                    several lakes in the county. The Max-in-kuck-ee lake is large and beautiful," ∗ ∗ ∗
                                In a survey of section 32, range 1 east, Jerry Smith, deputy surveyor, on page 48
                                    says "Set post on Muk-sen-cuck-ee Lake."
                                Yours, JOHN C. BUTLER, Deputy Surveyor Marshall
                                    Co.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    Hartford, Mich., Feb. 5, 1898
                                
                                MY DEAR SIR:—Your inquiry of
                                    February 3d, relative to the meaning and pronunciation of the word Muck-sen-cuk-ee,
                                    at hand. I have written it as nearly correct as the white man's o-.daw-naw (tongue)
                                    can pronounce it. It means, in the Algonquin dialect, "There is grass." ∗ ∗ ∗
                                SIMON PO-KA-GON.∗
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                On page 705 of the revision of the Indian Treaties of the 
                        United States
                    , in a treaty made at Nees-wau-gee Camp, in 1838, the word is spelled
                    Max-ee-nie-kee-kee. Only in the records of 
                        Marshall county
                     is it spelled Max-in-kuck-ee. This is but a copy of the original field notes at the
                    State Auditor's office, and whoever transcribed these notes made a mistake in the spelling; and thus
                    was established the form that has become fixed. The present name, says Mr. McDonald, "lacks a good
                    deal of being a pure Indian word. ‘Max' is German, and the balance of the word is made up of Scotch,
                    Irish, American and Algonquin."
                THE FIRST OLD SETTLERS' MEETING.
                Mr. Isaac H. Julian, of San Marcos, 
                        Texas
                    , sends us a copy of the "Memoir of David Hoover," a pamphlet now rare, published in
                    1856. David Hoover was one of the earliest and best-known pioneers of 
                        Wayne county
                    . The pamphlet contains an account of the first Old Settlers' Meeting of 
                        Wayne county
                    , held in September 1855. Mr. Julian thinks this was the first of these meetings held in
                    the State. If any reader of this knows of a previous one we will be glad to be informed.
                
                    
                        ∗Simon Pokagon, an educated Indian, was the last of the Pottawattomie chiefs
                        in this part of the country. He and his band remained in 
                            Michigan
                        .
                
            
        
        
            
            
        
    
