
     ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 105, Issue 1, pages 1-116. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2009).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:105+issue:1+year:2009&browseMode=source
    
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
        
        

            
            
                The Hoosier Cabinet and the American Housewife
                NANCY HILLER
                In the distaste - ranging from mild ennui to marriage-wrecking exasperation -
                    that late nineteenth-century women shared for household work, a few
                    entrepreneurial men in 
                        Albany
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , saw a golden opportunity. The farm equipment factory these
                    businessmen had founded was surviving but far from thriving when they happened
                    on a product that would catapult their firm to national fame. The Hoosier
                    cabinet, a freestanding cupboard equipped with ingenious mechanical devices,
                    consolidated storage and maximized the efficiency of kitchen labor, thereby
                    alleviating some of the most exasperating aspects of the middle-class
                    housewife's daily responsibilities. This article examines how a modest
                    item of 
                        Indiana
                    -made furniture came to alter the course of kitchen history.
                Women's lives during the late 1800s were quite different from our own.
                    For working-class and rural women, general housekeeping involved real physical
                    labor. Most tasks had to be done by hand-churning butter, stoking stoves with
                    wood or coal carried from the porch or cellar, chopping and mixing and washing.
                    Kitchens were sparsely furnished, usually with a worktable and sink, a storage
                    cupboard, and a few open shelves; dry goods purchased from the grocer were kept
                    in a pantry, along with rows of the canned goods that most women made from
                    homegrown produce. Kitchens were also typically large; a basic work area of 14
                    by 18 feet was not unusual, 
                        Nancy Hiller is a cabinetmaker and writer in 
                                Bloomington
                            , 
                                Indiana
                            . The bulk of the following essay is excerpted from The Hoosier Cabinet in Kitchen History, forthcoming
                            from Indiana University Press, and is reproduced here with their
                            permission. The author's five-page introduction, summarizing
                            earlier portions of the book, was written specifically for the IMH.
                        INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, 105 (March 2009) C 2009, Trustees of
                            Indiana University
                    
                    with many tasks performed in ancillary rooms
                    such as a cellar or pantry, in addition to an outdoor yard. An average housewife
                    walked thousands of steps each day in the course of food preparation and cleanup
                    alone.
                Even middle-class women who could afford paid help found everyday life to be far
                    from easy. Servants often brought trouble into their mistresses' homes
                    - communication problems, personality conflicts, and differences in domestic
                    habits - and domestic help, good or bad, was becoming increasingly hard to find.
                    The factories of the rapidly growing manufacturing sector were hungry for labor,
                    and, despite poor pay and significant hardships, employment in book binderies,
                    paper mills, and button shops often proved more appealing than domestic service,
                    with its preponderance of fickle and unreasonably demanding employers.1 The problem, from the workers' perspective, was
                    summed up nicely by a woman who contrasted her servant friends'
                    existence with her own experience in industry: "[T]hey're
                    never sure of one minute that's their own when they're in the
                    [mistresses'] house .... Our day [in the factory]," she
                    continued, "is ten hours long, but when it's done
                    it's done, and we can do what we like with the evenings."2
                As domestic servants exchanged their harried positions for the structure and
                    independence of industrial work, their former mistresses were forced back into
                    their own kitchens, where they found themselves at a loss. After years -
                    sometimes generations - of depending on hired labor to deal with the innumerable
                    basic tasks of everyday life, many lacked the expertise required to provide for
                    their families.3 What was a young housewife to make of a
                    recipe that told her to take "a pinch of this, and a little of that,
                    and considerable of the other, and cook them till they are done about
                    right"? The literature of the period suggests that overcooked dinners,
                    sagging cakes, and other minor disasters led frequently to household strife, but
                    there was little formal instruction available in how to remedy such problems.
                    Moreover, despite the considerable skill, creativity, and effort involved in
                    kitchen-related enterprises, many middle-class Americans held such work in low
                    regard, a fact that did nothing to fuel the housewife's motivation.4
                
                    1Sarah A. Leavitt, From Catharine Beecher
                            to Martha Stewart: A Cultural History of Domestic Advice (
                            Chapel
                                Hill
                        , 
                            N.C.
                        , 2002), 21-22; Ellen M. Plante, The American
                            Kitchen 1700 to the Present: From Hearth to Highrise (
                            New
                                York
                        , 1995), 58-65, 110-26.
                    2Nancy Cott et al., Root of Bitterness:
                            Documents of the Social History of American Women (
                            Boston
                        , 1996), 359.
                    30n the rise of domestic advice literature for
                        middle-class women, see Plante, The American Kitchen,
                        110-39. Popular magazines offered similar advice. See, for example,
                        "Economy in Cooking Well," Godey's
                        Lady's Book, January 1871.
                    4Laura Shapiro, Perfection Salad: Women
                            and Cooking at the Turn of the Century (2nd ed., 
                            Berkeley
                        , 
                            Calif.
                        , 2009), chap. 2; Nancy Folbre, "The Unproductive
                        Housewife: Her Evolution in Nineteenth-Century Economic Thought,"
                            Signs, 16 (Spring 1991), 463-84.
                
                
                
                    Kitchen Scientists, from Hoosier Manufacturing
                        Company's You and Your Kitchen catalog, 1918. The
                        company drew on the domestic science movement of the early twentieth century
                        to market its cabinets, portraying them as key to the scientific approach to
                        meal preparation. Courtesy of Henry County Historical Society 
                            New
                                Castle
                        , 
                            Indiana
                        
                
                
                Catharine Beecher, one of the century's most influential writers and
                    activists, sought to address this disparity at both its individual and its
                    broader social levels. With her equally well-known sister Harriet Beecher Stowe,
                    she published and lectured on the need for formal instruction in the house -
                    keeping arts, arguing that proficient, wholesome housekeeping would have
                    wide-reaching effects on American society as a whole. Beyond providing practical
                    guidance that ranged from recipes for calf's foot blancmange and egg
                    frizzle to her impressively detailed design for a kitchen work cupboard that she
                    called a "cooking form," Beecher published an astonishing
                    variety of insights into the all-too-often stifling effects of domestic life on
                    the American woman's spirit.5
                As Barbara Welter and others have convincingly argued, women's attempts
                    to live up to nineteenth-century ideals of womanhood bred resentment. Day after
                    day spent alone at home in housework that was not just exhausting, but accorded
                    little-if any-respect, left wives with what we would call low self-esteem, not
                    to mention a lack of energy and enthusiasm for family activities by the end of
                    the day.6 Understanding that women needed to feel as though
                    their contributions were valued both by their husbands and family at home and in
                    the wider socio-political sphere, Beecher argued that housekeeping, no less than
                    other forms of business, should be formally taught, and that it warranted the
                    cachet of domestic science. While she supported home beautification and other
                    pursuits on the grounds that these would promote the happy temperament so
                    encouraging to godly living, she cautioned against overspending on such relative
                    frivolities, as doing so could kindle domestic strife. Strife, above all, must
                    be avoided; a husband who was "wearied with endless
                    complaints" might well be drawn to clubs plying family-wrecking
                        temptations.7 Even in her most impassioned calls for
                    improvements to women's welfare, Beecher steadfastly upheld the
                    importance of maintaining household harmony, and with it, the institution of
                    marriage.
                While Beecher and other advocates of women's welfare were working for a
                    better society, economic and technological changes were paving the way for
                    industrial manufacturing on an unprecedented scale. The Hoosier cabinet itself
                    could only be produced because of radical improvements in 
                        5Catharine Beecher, Miss
                                Beecher's Domestic Receipt-Book: Designed as a Supplement
                                to Her Treatise on Domestic Economy (1st ed., 
                                New
                                    York
                            , 1846); Catharine Beecher and Harriet Beecher Stowe, The American Woman's Home: or, Principles of
                                Domestic Science (
                                New
                                    York
                            , 1869); Kathryn Kish Sklar, Catharine Beecher:
                                A Study in American Domesticity (
                                New
                                    York
                            , 1973).
                        6Barbara Welter, "The Cult of True
                            Womanhood: 1820-1860," American Quarterly, 18
                            (Summer 1966), 151-74.
                        7Beecher and Stowe, American
                                Woman's Home, 466.
                    
                    the procurement, processing, and
                    transportation of raw materials. These improvements were augmented by changes in
                    energy production and supply that gave rise to the mechanized factory, and by
                    changes in transportation that allowed for the shipment of finished products to
                    increasingly far-flung places.
                From the territory's early history, 
                        Indiana's
                     dense hardwood forests had appealed to craftsmen in wood. As early
                    as 1818, The Emigrant's Guide, or Pocket Geography of the
                        Western States and Territories advertised the 
                        Indiana
                     high country as a rich source of premium timber.8 The prospect drew established artisans from such centers of craftsmanship
                        Boston
                     and 
                        New
                            York
                    , and many brought with them their skills, equipment, and knowledge
                    of the furniture business. Joseph Meeks moved to 
                        Brookville
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , in 1818, and the following February, he placed an advertisement in
                    the Enquirer and Indiana Telegraph: JOSEPH MEEKS CABINET-MAKER,
                        Late from the 
                                City of N.
                                    York
                            , where he has conducted a small business for the
                        last eight years, takes this method of informing the inhabitants of 
                            Brookville
                        , and the vicinity, that he intends following the above Business
                        at this place. He has brought with him a quantity of Superior
                            Mahogany, which he will manufacture in the newest fashion and
                        workman like manner; likewise other woods natural to the growth of this
                        country. His residence at present is at the House of Mrs. Cooper, in the
                        rear of Mr. Ray's tavern. N.B. An Apprentice wanted immediately.9
                Furniture - and cabinetmaking enterprises flourished in 
                        Indiana
                    , though setbacks due to bankruptcy or fire were common. When
                    business was good, craftsmen had opportunities to display considerable artistry;
                    catalogs and advertisements from the early nineteenth century list such items as
                    Fancy beds, circular bureaus, scroll-top Windsor chairs, and tables with
                    elaborately reeded legs. At other times, many shops kept going by manufacturing
                    farm equipment, caskets, or basic household objects such as salt boxes and
                    quilting frames.10
                
                    8The Emigrant's Guide, or Pocket
                            Geography of the Western States and Territories (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1818), 108, 248, quoted in Betty Lawson Walters, Furniture Makers of 
                                Indiana
                            , 1793 to 1850 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1972), 11, 12.
                    9Walters, Furniture Makers of 
                                Indiana
                            , 12, 13.
                    10Ibid., 242 ff.
                
                
                During the first few decades of the nineteenth century, most shops advanced
                    beyond dependence on hand tools to equipment powered by horses, dogs, water, and
                    steam. 
                        The
                            state's
                     1820 industrial census recorded 28 cabinetmakers and 7 chairmakers,
                    but by 1840, furniture making had become the state's third-most-common
                    industry, its practitioners outnumbered only by those in home construction and
                    the manufacture of leather products.11 By the mid-nineteenth
                    century many shops had several employees, and mechanization had enabled some
                    establishments' production to outpace demand, resulting in inventory
                    available for sale through merchants and dealers.12 Hoosier
                    manufacturers produced a wide range of nationally sought-after furniture, from
                    rustic Old Hickory chairs and settees used in vacation lodges to perhaps the
                    most renowned product of the state's industry - the Wooton Desk,
                    patented in 1874, which became an international status symbol among businessmen,
                    politicians, and other men of wealth and power.13
                Mechanization was accompanied by a scientific attitude toward business
                    efficiency, one result of which was the time and motion study. Coinciding with
                    this trend, selling was increasingly regarded as a profession in its own right;
                    every aspect of the field was analyzed and refined, from advertising copy and
                    promotional events to the most effective ways for salesmen in retail stores to
                    stand, move, and smile while demonstrating their products. All of these
                    developments would play a role in the design, manufacture, and sales of the
                    Hoosier cabinet.
                One night, while millions of anonymous women bent over ironing boards or dropped
                    their sewing to answer the cries of screaming children, a small gathering of
                    businessmen leaned back in the creaking chairs of their office club in 
                        Albany
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    . The group, which consisted of James McQuinn, his son Emmett, and
                    two partners, J. Maring and T. Hart, convened on a regular basis to talk about
                    commerce and to dream.
                The elder McQuinn had worked for the Buckeye Window Glass Company of 
                        Findlay
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , where he had been involved in every aspect of that business from
                    the shop floor up, eventually moving into management 
                        11Ibid., 15. Walters also provides a
                            "Check List of 
                                Indiana
                             Furniture Makers Working in 1850 and Before,"
                            which lists 2,176 individuals and establishments, pp. 35-229.
                        12Ibid., 19. For an example of an 
                                Indiana
                             town growing through furniture manufacture, see Will
                            Maurer, "A Historical Sketch of 
                                Tell
                                    City
                            , 
                                Indiana
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            14 (June 1918), 108-133.
                        13Ralph Kylloe, A History of the Old
                                Hickory Chair Company and the 
                                    Indiana
                                 Hickory Furniture Movement (rev. ed., 
                                Lake
                                    George
                            , 
                                N.Y.
                            , 2002); Betty Lawson Walters, The King of
                                Desks: Wooton's Patent Secretary (
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , 1969).
                    
                     and regional sales. Shortly after the
                    business relocated to 
                        Albany
                    , following the depletion of the natural gas on which the glass
                    works in 
                        Ohio
                     had depended, McQuinn undertook some side work for the Albany State
                    Bank, keeping books and helping the management while still devoted to his
                    primary job with Buckeye Glass. This part-time work introduced him to some of 
                        Albany's
                     most influential business people. In 1899 the glass firm was sold,
                    and McQuinn's non-compete agreement obligated him to go into another
                    line of work. He wanted to remain in manufacturing but had no particular plan in
                    mind.
                In the easy company of the office club with Maring and Hart, the senior McQuinn
                    tossed around ideas for a possible venture. A local furniture factory had fallen
                    on hard times. The owners had laid off their employees and were willing to sell
                    the enterprise at a bargain price. Whatever the actual thoughts exchanged on the
                    night of this meeting, we can gain some insight into the entrepreneurial motives
                    of the participants from an account published in the New Castle
                        Times in April 1910. Some ten years or more
                        ago a little group of men bethought them that mankind is making his work
                        easy and light by the employment of all manner of machines and convenient
                        appliances to such an extent that the ancient curse about man eating bread
                        in the sweat of his brow seems to be revoked, and that all the while
                        womankind in the performance of her household work and her manifold
                        ministrations to the comforts of the home is laboring under many
                        disadvantages, is without machines and labor-saving appliances such as men
                        employ, so that the original cur[s]e hangs heavily upon her.14 However anachronistic the Times
                    account may be, attributing to the club members an awareness of their future
                    product that they almost certainly must have lacked, it shows, if nothing else,
                    the success that women had achieved - individually in their homes, as well as
                    through the advocacy of authors such as the Beecher sisters - in publicizing
                    their message about the need for better kitchens.
                The elder McQuinn acquired the old furniture factory and began operations. The
                    factory's first known product was not, in fact, the women's
                    labor saver referred to in the Times account above, but a
                    piece of agricultural equipment known as a seed separator. It seems, however,
                    that even as the company manufactured these farm implements, which they sold
                        
                        14New Castle Times, April 1910,
                            quoted by Herbert L. Heller in "Hoosier Kitchen Cabinet Factory
                            Opens," The New Castle Courier-Times, 1980
                            (exact publication date unavailable).
                    
                     house-to-house from gaily decorated
                    horse-drawn carts, someone in the shop had started to make kitchen cabinets. We
                    have no account of exactly how these first few cabinets came to be produced.
                    Perhaps one of the owners' wives had requested a prototype that she
                    could try out in her kitchen. We do know that the company thought the cabinets
                    had potential as a secondary product to ensure regular income during winter
                    months, when equipment sales to farmers would likely be slow.
                Whatever the case, the company had a few kitchen cabinets on hand when the
                    principals realized that the seed separators were going to be a hard sell. The
                    morning after the meeting in which they had discussed the disappointing farm
                    equipment sales, they sent out each of their four wagons with a cabinet on
                    board, in addition to the regular complement of seed separators. The results
                    were stunning, as the senior McQuinn would later describe: [T]he drivers all came in and reported that they had sold
                        the kitchen cabinet to practically the first prospect, but they brought
                        nearly all of the seed separators back unsold. The second day each took two
                        cabinets and one seed separator and that night all cabinets were reported
                        easily sold. The third day each driver took three kitchen cabinets and long
                        before night they all returned entirely sold out. That settled the question
                        definitely as to what line of furniture we should make.15 The company was on its way.
                Within the first two years of operation, the Hoosier factory, like countless
                    others of the time that were housed in wooden buildings, had suffered a
                    devastating fire. But the company soon acquired new premises. The city of 
                        New
                            Castle
                    , approximately twenty-five miles south of 
                        Albany
                    , was willing to chip in $2,500 toward the purchase of manufacturing
                    space, in exchange for a contract promising to employ twenty-five men for a
                    minimum of eight months a year.16 The company moved into the
                    former Speeder Cycle Factory, which offered 18,000 square feet of space.
                The Hoosier cabinet's basic design is most often attributed to its well-
                    known immediate predecessor, the baker's table. With its rounded
                    storage bins for flour (which led to its nickname, the possum belly table), its
                    working surface for kneading or rolling out dough, and the shallow, two-door
                    upper section that was added to many models, the baker's cabinet
                    undoubtedly 
                        15J. S. McQuinn, quoted in "The Hoosier
                            Manufacturing Company, 1899-1942," Henry County
                                Historical Log, Spring 1988.
                        16Philip D. Kennedy, Hoosier
                                Cabinets (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1989), 17.
                    
                    helped shape the Hoosier genre. However, there
                    were additional influences as well.
                In basic form, the Hoosier cabinet is not radically distinct from several other
                    types of cupboard that preceded its invention. As long ago as the sixteenth
                    century, English kitchens included a piece of furniture known as a dresser, on
                    which meat would be prepared, or dressed. In addition to its work surface, the
                    dresser (which has since come to be most widely known as a Welsh dresser) had a
                    shallow upper section with open shelves for storing linens and dishes. British
                    colonists imported this type of cabinet to 
                        America
                    , where the form became refined over time to suit peculiarly
                    American needs.17 Step-back cupboards, which featured a
                    deeper base cabinet with two doors below a shallow upper section usually
                    enclosed by two glazed doors, were also widely used in kitchens of the mid- to
                    late nineteenth century.
                In 1887, more than ten years before the Hoosier Manufacturing Company was
                    founded, a certain John Roth patented a design for a cabinet with compartments
                    for dishes, pies, small pots, and other kitchen wares, in addition to a
                    dedicated space for flour, drawers for coffee, tea, and spices, and a kneading
                    board for bread. The following statement by Roth, about whose creation little
                    more is known, is especially compelling in view of the claims that would be made
                    several years later by the various manufacturers of Hoosier cabinets: My kitchen dresser is particularly adapted to the use of
                        small families and will promote comfort and convenience of such by
                        furnishing storage for the most essential articles of food and for the
                        utensils for preparing and enjoying the same and at the same time the utmost
                        economy of space is secured.18
                Another nineteenth-century development that contributed to the Hoosier
                    cabinet's distinctive design was the invention of wall-hung bins, which
                    provided sanitary storage of flour while allowing for easy and economical
                    dispensing. The bins could be purchased in different sizes and supplied with
                    their own sifters.19
                
                    17In this section I have benefited from Jacquelyn
                        Star, "Free-Standing Kitchen Cabinets in the 
                            United States
                        , 1899-1930: 'Hoosier' Kitchen Cabinets,
                        Development in a Cultural Context," MA thesis (University of
                        Wisconsin-Madison, 1981).
                    18Ibid., 36.
                    19Ibid., 37.
                
                
                Early versions of the Hoosier cabinet had the lower section fitted with racks to
                    store dishes and a pull-out shelf for storing pots, pans, and other larger
                    items. The lower section also had a bread bin and drawers for utensils and
                    linens. On this base was mounted a counter that could be extended for a user
                    seated at a stool; the counter was built of wood with a zinc or enameled top for
                    ease of cleaning. The upper section was shallower and housed a flour dispenser,
                    usually with its own built-in sifter; hooks for hanging small utensils; racks
                    for storing spices and jars of extracts; a holder for the housewife's
                    rolling pin; space for jars of coffee, tea, and sugar; and shelves for smaller
                    dishes, glassware, and cups. Later versions became increasingly sophisticated in
                    their accoutrements and styling, eventually including meal-planning computers,
                    daily reminders for grocery trips, and helpful household hints.
                What differentiated the Hoosier cabinet most markedly from its predecessors -
                    aside from the intriguing cabinet described by Roth, above - was its
                    meticulously organized interior storage, a testament to the late
                    nineteenth-century preoccupation with functional design. The Beecher sisters had
                    advocated such attention to planning and detail for kitchen work in the middle
                    of the century, and efficiency expert Frederick Winslow Taylor had perfected its
                    applications to the work of office and factory. The Wooton desk had exemplified
                    this fascination with system and efficiency in brilliant style, and some
                    scholars have seen precedents for the Hoosier cabinet's interior
                    organization in the furniture of the late nineteenth-century office.20 Just as the Wooton businessman's desk had come
                    to symbolize its user's status, the Hoosier cabinet would transcend the
                    scope of mundane kitchen furniture, providing a material signifier of a
                    woman's culinary and other domestic skills.
                The most famous company to produce the cabinets was the Hoosier Manufacturing
                    Company. The other best-known makers were Sellers, Nappanee, McDougall, Boone,
                    and Wilson. Not all the manufacturers were in 
                        Indiana
                    . The 1907 "Directory of Leading and Representative
                    Furniture Manufacturers of the 
                        United States
                    " listed three firms besides the Hoosier Manufacturing
                    Company: the Buchanon Cabinet Company of 
                        Buchanon
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    ; the Elwell Kitchen Cabinet Company of 
                        Minneapolis
                    ; and the Hastings Table Company of 
                        Hastings
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    .21 In fact, once the type 
                        20The Universal Millwork Catalog of
                                1927 (1927; rep., 
                                New
                                    York
                            , 2003) introduces its section on the kitchen with the
                            statement, "Modern efficiency is asserting itself in the home
                            today, just as in the office and workshop," p. 251. See also
                            Mary Anne Beecher, "Promoting the 'Unit
                            Idea': Manufactured Kitchen Cabinets (1900-1950)," APT Bulletin, 32 (2/3, 2001), 27-37.
                        21Star, "Free-Standing Kitchen
                            Cabinets," 29.
                    
                    
                        This Hoosier Manufacturing Company advertisement appeared
                            in several publications during 1910. Ads often stressed the practical
                            necessity of the new cabinet - a Hoosier to a housewife would be like a
                            plow to a farmer. Courtesy of Henry County Historical Society 
                                New
                                    Castle
                            , 
                                Indiana
                            
                    
                    became known as a generic "kitchen
                    cabinet," many manufacturers, large and small, began producing them.22
                The systematic and ergonomic design of the Hoosier cabinet genuinely expedited
                    meal preparation and consolidated kitchen storage. But mere features alone,
                    however helpful, cannot account for the millions of cabinets that would find
                    their way into American homes. To understand why the cabinets became such a
                    runaway success we have to appreciate the part played in this story by the
                    increasingly sophisticated profession of sales, which not only promoted the
                    cabinets by making them accessible to buyers, but extolled their many benefits
                    as well.
                The history of the Hoosier cabinet illustrates how early twentieth-century
                    manufacturers enthusiastically put these principles of salesmanship and
                    marketing into practice. The Hoosier Manufacturing Company, whose promotional
                    budget and visionary sales strategies vastly surpassed those of any other firm,
                    advertised in newspapers and magazines almost from its inception. By the 1920s,
                    Hoosier was spending almost a quarter-million dollars annually on advertising.
                    In an effort to capitalize on the interest generated by these advertisements,
                    the company established dealer relationships with furniture stores. However,
                    most businesses were less than enthusiastic at the prospect of devoting precious
                    floor space to mere kitchen cabinets. In 1904 the firm publicized a plan to sell
                    to customers directly, cutting out the middlemen, but they later found it most
                    expedient to establish their own network of
                    "Hoosier-authorized" dealers, and they artfully coordinated
                    their advertising in print media with promotional events at these localized
                        venues.23 By 1916 there were over 5,000 dealers, and the
                    company had sold more than a million cabinets.
                As countless advertisements for Hoosier cabinets show, the purveyors of these
                    "step savers" profited richly from the Beecher
                    sisters' insights and creativity. The promotion of "equable
                    and cheerful temper and tone in the housekeeper" proved a spectacular
                    means to increase sales. Although only a few advertisements explicitly cited the
                    Beechers (and it is Catharine whose wisdom was most often invoked), the
                    sisters' influence is unmistakable. Not only had they literally
                    provided a blueprint for the cabinet's essential design, with their
                    drawing of the cooking form; their writings had enumerated exactly those areas
                    of the middle-class housewife's daily existence that warranted
                    remediation - a list that, for these businesses, translated to unmined veins of
                    gold.
                
                    22The Showers Brothers Furniture Company of 
                            Bloomington
                        , 
                            Indiana
                        , is one of the many firms that manufactured Hoosier-type
                        kitchen cabinets among their products. The offices of the Indiana University
                        Press have for decades been located in one of the former Showers
                        Brothers' showrooms; their adjacent factory building now houses 
                            Bloomington's
                         city hall.
                    23Kennedy, Hoosier Cabinets, 20,
                        21.
                
                
                Worn out? The new kitchen cabinet promised to reduce the overall amount of labor
                    the housewife had to perform, as well as make each step of that labor less
                    physically taxing. Feeling unappreciated? The investment of $50 required to
                    purchase a Hoosier cabinet would provide a concrete symbol of the esteem in
                    which a housewife's work was held by her spouse. Wondering what your
                    education was for, when you spend so much of your daily life in menial labor?
                    The cabinet's diverse, ingenious appurtenances would indicate to the
                    woman of the house and to others that the challenges of kitchen work were many
                    and real; why else would "efficiency experts" have devoted so
                    much attention to inventing such equipment? Beyond all of these remedies to
                    domestic woes there also lay a positive reason to buy this cabinet: the simple
                    beauty of the object as a piece of furniture would make the housewife's
                    time in her kitchen a rewarding pleasure. Finally, the presence of a Hoosier
                    cabinet in a woman's home would demonstrate to family and friends her
                    embrace of modern ideals.
                The various manufacturers of Hoosier cabinets employed a variety of print media
                    for advertising, from local newspapers to national magazines. Some of these
                    publications were directed at a female readership - The
                        Ladies' Home Journal, Good Housekeeping, Better Homes and Gardens, and Woman's
                        Home Companion, among them. Others, which included Liberty
                        Magazine, Everybody's Magazine, and The Saturday Evening Post, were intended for general
                    readers.
                Others still were directed specifically at husbands. In its earlier years, the
                    Hoosier Manufacturing Company advertised in farm publications such as National Stockman and Farmer Magazine and Breeder's Gazette. The male head of the household would,
                    after all, be paying for the cabinet's purchase. But the most telling
                    bit of advertising directed at men must surely be a 1913 example published in
                        Country Gentleman. Entitled "The Moving Picture
                    Story of a Hoosier Cabinet," it shows three drawings of a housewife. In
                    the first, she "sits while working," rather than having to
                    stand. The second shows how she can keep all her tools and materials at
                    arm's reach, which saves her from having to walk around the kitchen.
                    The third plate triumphantly proclaims, "Through Early - Not
                    Tired," perhaps hinting that the wife might be expected to have energy
                    left for other activities she might engage in with her husband at the end of the
                    day.
                Most of the ads, however, were directed at wives themselves, who could presumably
                    be counted on to suggest to their spouses the positive improvement in every
                    aspect of family life that this modern invention would facilitate. If
                    matter-of-fact suggestion proved unsuccessful, she might badger her husband; how
                    could anyone not afford a Hoosier, when the company offered payment on credit
                    with only a dollar down and forty-nine payments of a dollar a week? While fifty
                    dollars represented a great deal more money in 1900 than it does today, the
                    payment plan brought these cabinets within
                    the reach of countless buyers whose income would otherwise have precluded such a
                    purchase. The cabinet would be paid for in a year and provide decades of
                    stalwart service! If the cabinet's combination of practical features
                    and affordability did not sway a stubborn husband, his wife could point out, as
                    had the piece in Country Gentleman, that this purchase might
                    well garner him more wifely attention.
                Men's work, being visible in the public sphere, brought financial
                    profit, opportunities, and recognition. The Beecher sisters had understood the
                    importance of such recognition to an individual's motivation and sense
                    of self-worth. But women, who labored in the home, worked largely by themselves.
                    Their work was also taken for granted, which led to a vicious cycle: feeling
                    underappreciated contributed to low self-esteem, which in turn often led to
                    grumpiness and impatience with family. This syndrome of negativity at least made
                    many women's housekeeping labors more of a chore than they needed to
                    be, and at worst caused significant household strife. The frequency with which
                    the advertisements promised relief from drudgery and exhaustion certainly
                    suggests that in spite of the nineteenth century's vaunted ideals,
                    women's household work had taken a heavy toll on marriage and family
                    life.
                In response to such realities, some Hoosier cabinet advertisements were designed
                    to make women feel that their domestic labors were valued for their
                    contributions beyond the domestic sphere. The authors of these ads undoubtedly
                    understood that this constituted a subtle yet welcome form of flattery - a way
                    of helping women appreciate their part in the larger community. The beef and
                    mutton pie they prepared for dinner, or the calf's foot blancmange they
                    served for dessert (both are included in Miss Beecher's
                        Domestic Receipt Book) might have national or even international
                    repercussions. Mrs. X's husband might be the tradesman responsible for
                    maintaining equipment at the university's chemistry department. Mrs.
                    Y's husband might work for the mayor. Perhaps Mrs. W was married to the
                    state governor, or even an ambassador. Who knew what wide-reaching developments
                    might be aided by a husband's ability to perform well, instead of
                    feebly, on any given day?
                The Sellers company did its own part to persuade women that their labors were
                    valued, enumerating "Added Features That Cost Us Over $100,000
                        Annually."24 This level of investment by a
                    manufacturer certainly implies the importance of those for whom the investment
                    is made. Nowhere did this ad acknowledge that the cost of these added features,
                    which included an automatic lowering flour bin and ant-proof canisters, was
                    passed on to 
                        24Ibid., 76.
                    
                    
                    
                        Hoosier Manufacturing Company catalogs, including this one
                            from 1912, regularly included drawings comparing the steps required to
                            make a meal using a traditional pantry versus a Hoosier cabinet.
                            Courtesy of Henry County Historical Society 
                                New
                                    Castle
                            , 
                                Indiana
                            
                    the buyers; instead, readers were allowed to imagine that these
                    improvements had been added for their benefit alone, and at the
                    manufacturer's expense. A variation on this ad, appearing in another
                    publication, claimed that providing the "Automatic Lowering Flour
                    Bin" cost the company $52,000 more per year than what the cabinet would
                    otherwise have cost to make. A third Sellers ad referred to their kitchen
                    cabinet as "The Best Servant In Your House."25 As with the previous examples, this one flattered would-be buyers,
                    implicitly crediting them with a kind of prestige they likely lacked: only those
                    who are powerful and important are actually in a position to employ
                    servants.
                Labeling their cabinet "The Indorsement [sic] of Success,"
                    Coppes Brothers' ad published by Pictorial Review in
                    1920 calls to mind Max Weber's take on the Protestant work ethic.26 Just as Weber posited that the work ethic had arisen from
                    the Protestant belief that earthly success could 
                        25Ibid., 80, 81.
                        26Ibid., 102.
                    
                    indicate an individual's status as
                    one of God's elect, and thereby provided motivation for the Christian
                    to prosper in earthly terms as a means of assuring himself that he was among the
                    chosen few, if a woman owned a "Dutch Kitchenet," she must be
                    successful. The cabinet's presence in her kitchen would be a badge of
                    her housekeeping prowess, as enviable as a modern-day Eagle Scout's
                    award. Imagine how the presence of this cabinet would impress family and
                    neighbors, with its suggestion that it could only have been bought by a husband
                    who greatly valued his wife and looked upon her household responsibilities with
                    the utmost seriousness. The many ads for Hoosier cabinets that cited numbers of
                    kitchen footsteps saved also underscored, by implication, the
                    housewife's value. Who would take the time to count her footsteps and
                    work to minimize them if those steps did not belong to someone important?
                Counting footsteps proved big business for the makers of Hoosier cabinets. The
                    idea of saving steps has been figurative for so long that most of us have
                    forgotten the origin of this expression in the literal movement of feet.
                    "How many steps in the kitchen preparing three simple meals?"
                    asked Coppes Brothers and Zook.27 Accompanied by a statement
                    from Mr. Harrington Emerson, the "Father of Efficiency
                    Engineers," and appearing next to a photograph showing H. H. Tice of
                    Emerson Engineers recording the time and motion involved in preparing a meal,
                    the ad proclaimed, "2,113 steps every day - 1,592 can be
                    saved!" Further copy termed these discoveries
                    "amazing" and "supremely important" - again
                    in line with Beecher's urging that the value of women's work
                    in the home receive due appreciation.
                With its promise to save footsteps by consolidating items in one
                    "centralized storehouse that has places for 400 articles, all within
                    arm's reach," the Hoosier cabinet fulfilled the day's
                    requirement to help the newly servant-less wife (and the wife who had never been
                    able to afford servants) run her household more efficiently.28 But there were other ads that personified the cabinet as a servant.
                    A 1916 ad for McDougall contains a veritable servant's vow. I will make each kitchen hour a joy - each meal a source
                        of keenest pleasure - each day an example of economy and efficiency....
                        I will banish blue Monday and black Friday - take the drudgery out of your
                        kitchen - and fill the days with the song of willing service.
                        
                            
                                27>Ibid., 103.
                            
                            28Advertisement in The Saturday
                                    Evening Post, October 28, 1916; Kennedy, Hoosier Cabinets, 36.
                        
                        I will keep your kitchen as neat as wax -
                        your food supplies in perfect order. I will save you all I cost in a score
                        of ways - to live without me is an extravagance. I will always be on
                        time ... always keep my temper - never aggravate - never disappoint you -
                        for I am the McDougall Kitchen Cabinet. Your faithful servant, Patience
                            McDougall29 Like this one from
                    "Patience McDougall," an ad for the Boone cabinet made by
                    Campbell-Smith-Ritchie portrayed the Hoosier as a woman, "Helen
                    Boone." "Boone Cabinets as represented by
                    'Helen,' below, are beautiful. But they are also unique in
                    work-saving service. They are capable
                    because they incorporate the proved [sic], ultra-modern
                    advantages 369 Women, readers of The Ladies' Home Journal,
                        designed."30 Miss Boone's countenance
                    peers out from various corners of the cabinet as she points to its many helpful
                    features, among them a disappearing ironing board and "a mirror for
                    that hasty glance!" The suggestion seems to be that you, too, could
                    become capable and beautiful by using this cabinet. At the very least, Helen
                    Boone could replace your former servant who abandoned you, seeking factory work.
                    (Other competent and attractive members of the Boone family were known as Mary,
                    Betty, and Bertha.)
                Other advertisements did even better. Sex sells, and while its use may have been
                    somewhat veiled in much early twentieth-century advertising (at least, the
                    advertising directed at the kind of women whose families would have the means to
                    buy such household improvements), it was handily employed all the same. Why
                    portray a cabinet as a chaste, submissive girl or a sensible home efficiency
                    expert when you could personify it as a stunning, strapping man? The McDougall
                    Company seized this opportunity. "Handsome, tall and
                    competent," reads one ad from 1920, "your McDougall waits
                    cheerily in the kitchen every morning." Having helped get your family
                    ready for the day, McDougall then "hurries you out, smiling and fresh,
                    for a bit of relaxation." Rare among Hoosier cabinet ads, this one just
                    happens to picture a cabinet without its user; her stool sits empty with her
                    apron, discarded, lying suggestively on top. It is hard to view this ad without
                    imagining some additional kind of pleasure, unmentioned, that took place after
                    the work was done. Her husband and children having been ushered off to their
                    respective days, she has untied her apron strings and left the kitchen. What
                    occurred between this moment and the time when she hurried out of 
                        29Kennedy, Hoosier Cabinets,
                            114.
                        30Ibid., 127.
                    
                    that house so refreshed? The portrayal of the
                    "servant" continues in dignified terms: "Ancestral
                    leadership, steadfastly upheld, exhibits itself in fine character of
                    construction and complete convenience .... Lustrous beauty, sound oak
                    sturdiness, and rare utility combined."31 Taken as
                    a piece, this ad calls to mind images of the young Sean Connery, or perhaps
                    those musclebound men on the covers of the bodice-ripper romances that would
                    find their way into the kitchens of these same women several decades later.
                    There's nothing like the anticipation of romance to sweeten even the
                    dullest labors that must, by necessity, precede it.
                The unspoken promises that can reasonably be inferred to relate to sex went on.
                    These were, after all, the early decades of the twentieth century, a time when
                    all manner of supposedly outdated social notions were being abandoned. The
                    promise of sex, while less overt than it would become during the 1960s, was
                    everywhere. Just as today, there was strong pressure to be slender, youthful,
                    and energetic. Expectations of women, too, were changing; women's
                    demand for voting rights set in motion a train of social effects, one of which
                    was a new emphasis on how they appeared as individuals - not just in terms of
                    beauty, and not just as keepers of the house and mothers of children, but in
                    their capacity as partners within a marriage partnership. It was no longer
                    enough to be a responsible housekeeper, a good cook, and a caring mother; now
                    women began to be judged as conversation partners and objects of desire. There
                    were new standards to be met, and along with them, new reasons to feel anxious
                    and insecure. Just as today, self-doubt was insidiously nurtured by advertisers
                    so that it could then be profitably mined as a potentially inexhaustible means
                    to increase sales. Advertisements in Liberty Magazine, which
                    billed itself as "A Weekly for Everybody," featured ads for
                    Pepsodent toothpaste ("Cloudy Teeth - dull teeth. How to make them
                    whiter - quickly!"), Lemon Facialax skin-whitening cream, and
                    "Dr. Lawton's Automatic Waistline Reducer."
                    Editorials revealed "The TRUTH About BEAUTY SURGERY" and
                    quizzed women, "Do You Use Your Husband's Name? Or Are You of
                    Those Who Would Abolish 'Mrs.' from the Glossary of Married
                    Life?" Fiction included such offerings as "The Happy Hunting
                    Ground: A Short Story of a Girl Who Crossed the Sea to Look for a Rich Husband,
                    and Found Love Instead" and "White Pants Willie, The Story of
                    a Young Man Who Found Love and Adventure in Dazzling, Money-Drunk Palm
                        Beach."32
                Read with this larger social context in mind, the cabinet ads may be seen as
                    offering yet one more attractive benefit: by helping their users stay 
                        31Ibid., 120.
                        32Liberty Magazine, January 17,
                            1925.
                    
                     beautiful, youthful, and energetic, the
                    cabinets could help save marriages. "Why be all fagged out and suffer
                    from backache and headache? Why be a kitchen drudge, waste your strength and
                    wear yourself out? A 'Dutch Kitchenet' will systematize your
                    kitchen work - make it easy and give you leisure time for rest and
                        recreation."33 The Sellers cabinet promised to
                    "conserve your strength to a remarkable degree."34 Hoosier agreed that "the greatest economies [women] can
                    effect are those of Time and Strength," allowing "more time
                    for rest and recreation," and for "porch breezes" in
                        summer.35 "The Hoosier will help me to stay
                    young," declares a bride to her mother, presumably on her wedding
                        day.36 "Save nerves, Save health,"
                    cries another Hoosier ad; yet another, "Think what this spare time
                    would mean to you day after day, if you worked sitting down so you could feel
                    rested enough to enjoy it."37 It is hard to read
                    page after page of advertising focused on the prevention of backaches,
                    headaches, "drudgery," and exhaustion in the context of a
                    married household where the husband would be paying for the purchase of any home
                    improvement without being put in mind of the kind of husband-generated
                    complaints the cabinets might be expected to help reduce.
                Other ads employ peer pressure of various kinds in an effort to have housewives
                    cajole their husbands into a purchase. "Are you fitting your daughter
                    by example and experience to be a successful home-maker?" asks a
                    McDougall advertisement from 1917. "Are you educating her for the
                    practical work of life? Are you teaching her true economy and
                    efficiency?" After pointing out that the cabinet can be had for only a
                    dollar a week, the ad continues, "You cannot spend this small amount in
                    any way that will be of greater daily benefit to your daughter, your family and
                        yourself."38 Using the same type of
                    rationalization, the Hoosier Manufacturing Company asserted in various
                    advertisements that "[a] Hoosier Cabinet is not an expense -
                    it's an investment."
                The pressure to be modern, to keep up with the times and avoid being left behind
                    by one's peers, is also employed. "You would not knowingly
                    per- mit, in your modern home, the doing of important work by methods that
                    belong to a drudging past," proclaims a Sellers ad from 1925.
                    "Then remember 
                        33Kennedy, Hoosier Cabinets,
                            101.
                        34Ibid., 68.
                        35Ibid., 38, 41.
                        36Advertisement in Ladies'
                                Home Journal, 1919; Plante, The American
                                Kitchen, 209.
                        37Kennedy, Hoosier Cabinets,
                            32.
                        38Ibid., 116.
                    
                    that a modern cabinet is the indispensable
                    working center, scientifically developed for culinary purposes .... You will
                    free your new house from the crudities of built-in shelves and
                        cupboards."39
                By far the greatest peer pressure was employed by the Hoosier Manufacturing
                    Company. A 1910 advertisement urged readers of Good
                        Housekeeping to join no fewer than 300,000 other women who had already,
                    according to this claim, cut out "all the disagreeable part"
                    of their kitchen work.40 Another, in 1914, put a
                    quasi-patriotic slant on the peer pressure theme, claiming to have more than
                    700,000 users-now more than double the number in 1910 - and promoting the
                    cabinet as a "national step saver for American
                    women." "Women all over the 
                        United States
                     praise the Hoosier," the ad continued. "You need
                    it, too."41 The political undertones of this
                    campaign were echoed in 1920, when an ad in The Saturday Evening
                        Post characterized the cabinet as a
                        "woman-emancipator."42 Another, in
                    1920, claimed to be not just improving daily life for American housewives, but
                    revolutionizing the fate of "Womankind," as evidenced by the
                    fact that kitchens were now being designed around the cabinet: "To-day
                    kitchens are actually being planned to fit the
                        Hoosier."43 By 1920 the Hoosier Manufacturing
                    Company could point a metaphorical finger at the housewife and urge,
                    "you need the HOOSIER - Now. It can do for you what it is doing for two
                    million other women."44
                Later ads shifted the focus from the reduction of drudgery to highlighting the
                    ways in which a Hoosier cabinet would transform the kitchen into a source of
                    delight, perfect for aiding the woman of the house to express lingering ideals
                    of supposed true womanhood. The McDougall cabinet promised to "make
                    each kitchen hour a joy" and claimed to "radiate good
                        cheer."45 The Sellers cabinet would
                    "bring beauty and color into the kitchen."46 By 1920 the Hoosier Manufacturing Company had decided to call one
                    of its models the "Hoosier Beauty," a name that would endure
                    for years; in 1925 one of the firm's advertisements declared the
                    kitchen "the one room exclusively a woman's ... and so the
                    kitchen should reflect cheer and 
                        39Ibid., 87.
                        40Ibid., 30.
                        41Ibid., 33; emphasis added.
                        42Ibid., 38.
                        43Ibid., 41; emphasis added.
                        44Ibid.
                        45Ibid., 114.
                        46Ibid., 88.
                    
                    charm as well as provide comfort and
                        convenience."47 "It is the one
                    room," the ad continued, "where she may have her own way
                    without consulting others. Perhaps this is the very reason the kitchen is so
                    often last to get its due .... Yet every woman has her dreams of what this room
                    should be! ... [A]bove all, it would be a charming, restful
                    place, with dainty, feminine touches to cheer her work day along."48 In addition to the basic kitchen cabinet, the company
                    offered a breakfast set that would bring an "added touch of cosy [sic] cheer ... in White or French Grey Enamel, golden oak, or
                    painted to match your special color scheme. Whatever your choice, you have a
                    tastefully appointed, charming room." For the holiday season of the
                    same year, 1927, the company ran an ad in The Saturday Evening
                        Post that gives testament to the importance of color in its own right.
                        Sometime between now and Christmas a Hoosier dealer
                        in nearly every community will feature the new Hoosier Beauty Cabinet -
                        choice of five color combinations - and with it a beautiful 46-piece golden
                        maize dinner set, a 19-piece set of jade green glassware and a 10-piece
                        crystal set of kitchen glassware ... all for a small payment down....
                        You have a choice of five smart finishes - Silver or Golden Oak, White,
                        Wedgwood or Grey Enamel. Cupboard interiors are finished in scarlet, apple
                        green, orange or robin's egg blue. Doors are attractively decorated
                        to match.49 As so many advertisements of the
                    time pointed out, "The best part of a Hoosier kitchen is that you will
                    never know you've spent the money! For buying Hoosier furniture is now
                    reduced to the easiest, simplest terms."50
                Manufacturers rivaled each other to see who could devise the most irresistible
                    offerings. By 1930 Sellers was advertising its kitchen ensembles "in
                    the new Colored Oak," claiming to be "the style
                        leader in kitchen furniture - sponsor of the modern colorful kitchen
                    and of beautiful wood finishes."51
                To maximize the value of its advertising investment, the Hoosier Manufacturing
                    Company devised an ingenious way of gauging which ads generated the most
                    interest. As Philip Kennedy has pointed out, just as many companies today
                    include a department code on reader response cards, 
                        47Ibid., 48.
                        48Ibid.; emphasis in original.
                        49Ibid., 53.
                        50Ibid., 48.
                        51Ibid., 91; emphasis in original.
                    
                     different advertisements listed different
                    addresses for the company's main office in 
                        New
                            Castle
                    . When readers sent in a form requesting information, the company
                    could identify the source of their interest by the address. One ad listed the
                    office at 1027 Broad Street, another at 1127 Sidney Street. Earlier ads gave
                    various numbers on Maple Street, while 1410 Sidney Street and 135 Calhoun Street
                    also made appearances. No doubt the post office in New Castle was aware of this
                    ploy and delivered all the mail to the actual location of the main office, on
                    South 14th Street.52
                Another innovative marketing device employed by the Hoosier Manufacturing Company
                    was its annual kitchen design competition that took place in the early 1920s.
                    Advertising in professional publications, the company solicited entries from
                    designers and architects around the country for kitchen layouts that would
                    incorporate a Hoosier cabinet in the most attractive and efficient way. In one
                    year, 343 entries were submitted, 50 of which made their way into the slender
                    published volume entitled The Kitchen Plan Book. Reprinted in
                    1997 by American Bungalow Magazine, this book is a valuable
                    resource for today's restorers and designers of early
                    twentieth-century-style kitchens. But when it was originally published, the book
                    was much more.
                "The problem," as presented by the company, involved
                    "the design of a fully equipped kitchen for a family of four or five
                    without a servant."53 Accordingly, the competition
                    rules specified that the kitchen could not exceed 144 square feet - these
                    kitchens were to be exemplars for the small, "modern" house
                    without a space-wasting pantry. Besides the Hoosier cabinet, the kitchen was to
                    include the "essential requirements" of a sink with drain
                    board, range, and refrigerator. The actual purpose of the competition, however,
                    becomes clear on reading the company's "object."
                        This competition is being conducted ... to
                        encourage the study by architects and architectural draftsmen of
                        labor-saving devices and economies in plan and equipment for the modern
                        small-family kitchen. The acuteness of the servant problem has resulted
                        generally in increased kitchen activities on the part of individual members
                        of the family .... That a kitchen should be ... a really pleasant room to
                        work in ... is becoming recognized in larger measure in all communities. The
                        Hoosier Manufacturing Company, believing that a real demand
                            exists for standardization, hopes through this competition to bring
                        to the problem, the experience . . . of the architect and, with the
                        suggestions thus obtained, 
                            52Ibid., 20.
                            53Hoosier Manufacturing Company, The Kitchen Plan Book (
                                    New
                                        Castle
                                , 
                                    Ind.
                                , c. 1920), 7; reprinted by American
                                    Bungalow, 1997.
                        
                        expects to be able to submit to the
                        public and the architectural profession data and practical suggestions for
                        an up-to-the-minute model kitchen.54
                By publishing the "best" work of the nation's
                    architects and designers, who had been challenged to incorporate a Hoosier
                    cabinet most effectively into a kitchen, the manufacturer was attempting no less
                    than a revision of basic kitchen standards. The book was intended not just to
                    show architects and builders how to plan a kitchen that would offer the most
                    effective layout for using a Hoosier kitchen cabinet; more ingeniously, the book
                    was intended to make the Hoosier cabinet as indispensable a part of the kitchen
                    as a stove or sink. Remember, the title of this book is not "A Kitchen
                    Plan Book," but The Kitchen Plan Book. Ideally,
                    Americans would be left unable to imagine a kitchen that did not include a
                    Hoosier cabinet. What a quaint idea that would be! Of course a house must be
                    built with dedicated space for the Hoosier. No one in her right mind would wish
                    to go back to the time when a kitchen's storage and preparation areas
                    were limited to a "mere built-in contrivance, such as a series of
                    shelves and cupboards."55 By the time of this
                    competition, "[t]wo million women [had], by their purchases, placed the
                    stamp of approval on the Hoosier as 
                        America's
                     greatest household convenience."56 The
                    text concluded with the following coup de grace: "In planning a
                    kitchen, it is logical to leave a space in which the Hoosier
                    may be placed." And who would not wish to be logical in an era when the
                    values of "science" and "system" were so
                        vaunted?57
                Another significant factor in the Hoosier Manufacturing Company's
                    success was the company's masterly coordination of its advertising and
                    marketing schemes with a nationwide network of dealers. This collaboration made
                    the cabinets readily available to buyers even in rural locations many decades
                    before the development of general delivery services such as UPS. A 1915
                    publication for Hoosier retailers offers a brilliant example of the
                    company's dealer support. Published in broadsheet form, the Hoosier Kitchen Cabinet Book, as this publication is called,
                    is, at just over thirty pages, actually less a book than a promotional guide for
                    retail agents. The booklet promised cash prizes for the highest-performing sales
                    agents, who could win up to $500 on top of their ordinary retail markup.
                    (Considering that two years later the Aladdin Company was selling entire house
                    kits for an 
                        54Ibid.; emphasis added.
                        55Ibid., 51.
                        56Ibid.
                        57Ibid.; emphasis added.
                    
                    
                    
                        The Hoosier Manufacturing Company provided its dealers with
                            a variety of press-ready advertising copy, including this from the Hoosier Kitchen Cabinet Book, 1915, for publication in
                            local newspapers. Advertising campaigns often led up to a promotional
                            sale. Courtesy of Henry County Historial Society 
                                New
                                    Castle
                            , 
                                Indiana
                            
                    
                    average price of $1,145, this prize money
                    would translate into tens of thousands of dollars' worth of purchasing
                    power by today's standards and so must have provided dealers with a
                    powerful incentive to sell the Hoosier Manufacturing Company's wares.)
                    The contest would coincide with a nationwide promotional event whereby customers
                    could purchase a Hoosier cabinet for $2.50 less than the advertised price. This
                    price reduction was especially significant given that the Hoosier Manufacturing
                    Company strictly controlled the prices charged by its authorized dealers.
                To encourage participation in this promotional extravaganza, the text cites past
                    successes: "These sales have increased Hoosier business every year for
                    fifteen years in spite of wars, panics and periods of business depression. They
                    made the fall months of 1914 the biggest in Hoosier history. The new plan, we
                    believe, will increase your Hoosier business and your new customers beyond every
                    expectation you now think reasonable.58
                The booklet included guidance and materials for agents' in-store use. It
                    previewed the advertisements that would appear in national publications such as
                        The Saturday Evening Post and Woman's Home Companion. It instructed sellers exactly how to
                    set up their store windows to maximize profits and offered special tags to
                    enhance their displays. Store Card No. 1, for instance, noted, "PAY
                    ONLY $1. Balance $1 weekly."59 It offered dealers a
                    five-foot-long, green-and-white advertising poster and provided photographic
                    illustrations of how to display the cabinets to the dealer's best
                    advantage in the store.
                Furthermore, the booklet promised help with developing new customers by mail. In
                    it were reproduced sample letters with the following text that the Hoosier
                    Manufacturing Company would send to prospective customers in the
                    retailer's own locale. You already know a lot
                        of people who ought to be good prospects for Hoosier Cabinets. Some of these
                        people trade with you now; others don't. Before you make the
                        public announcement of your big Hoosier sale in the newspapers, why not send
                        a carefully written personal invitation to each of these women, giving them
                        the special privilege of coming in the week before the general public is
                        invited, and making her selection with- out rush or hurry. Almost every
                        select shop in the big cities uses this plan. It always makes one feel
                        especially favored to get an advance invitation of this sort. 
                            58Hoosier Manufacturing Company, Hoosier Kitchen Cabinet Book (1915), 8.
                            59Ibid., 14.
                        
                        You send us the names of all the people
                        who ought to own Hoosier Cabinets. We will write the above letter [as
                        indicated in the text] on the attractive little folder shown here - sign
                        your name to it, mail it - do all the work-pay for the printing - charge you
                        nothing but the postage. This letter, written by an expert advertising
                        man, carefully criticized by business men of wide experience, has already
                        been tested successfully. If we did not know it would produce a big increase
                        in your Hoosier sales, we could not afford to make this liberal offer.
                        Printing and handling of these letters alone, will cost us more than the
                        postage. Take advantage of this opportunity. It will have a big influence on
                        the success of your sale.
                On top of all these other types of aid, the company provided a week's
                    worth of press-ready advertisements for retailers to run in their local
                    newspaper. As may be expected, these ads became increasingly urgent in tone as
                    the week wore on, moving from "Next week will be too late"
                    through "DECIDE TONIGHT." The company also supplied painted
                    metal signs to "Bring Farmers to Your Store," colorful cards
                    for retailers to drive around with on their delivery trucks, attractive
                    pamphlets that could be customized with a retailer's store name and
                    sent out by mail to prospects' homes, and several pages with
                    illustrations of various Hoosier models, from "the low priced Hoosier
                    cabinet no. 1537 to no. 1549: "The Carrara All White Hoosier - cleans
                    like a porcelain bath tub."60
                As the garnish to this veritable feast of sales assistance, the booklet concluded
                    with three pages of step-by-step instructions on how the retailer ought
                    personally to demonstrate the Hoosier cabinet to prospective buyers who came
                    into the store. One of the most entertaining passages describes "Mrs.
                    Christine Frederick's Housekeeper's Food Guide, showing an
                    unlimited number of balanced menus," which was provided as a standard
                    feature in the upper section of the higher-priced models. Retail salesmen were
                    urged to praise the Guide, which "answers every day the perplexing
                    question, 'What shall I cook for dinner?' You simply turn the
                    dial until you see before you in the slot, the names of the meat you want. A
                    choice of perfectly balanced menus is before you. A great many women regard this
                    as the most important feature on the new Hoosier. It saves money, time and
                    worry." The text followed with the confidential advice, "Show
                    how the food guide operates, and ask the customer to operate it
                        herself."61
                By 1920 the Hoosier Manufacturing Company alone had sold two million cabinets,
                    which translated to getting its product into one in ten American homes. This
                    figure does not take into account a single one of the 
                        60Ibid., 16.
                        61Ibid., 33.
                    
                    
                    
                        The early twentieth century saw the increasingly
                            sophisticated development of all forms of sales. The Hoosier
                            Manufacturing Company encouraged its retail dealers to stay on the
                            cutting edge and sell their wares aggressively. In their Hoosier Kitchen Cabinet Book, 1915, the company provided
                            detailed instruction, including a word-by-word script, for the salesmen
                            who would demonstrate their cabinets to prospective buyers.
                            Courtesy of Henry County Historical Society 
                                New
                                    Castle
                            , 
                                Indiana
                            
                    
                     competition's
                    "Hoosiers" that could be found in many thousands of other
                    households. The cabinets' penetration into the 
                        United States
                     market represented an unprecedented level of sales and reflected
                    the success of new methods of marketing and distribution. It is no wonder that
                    scholars use these companies' advertisements to examine our
                    nation's transformation from a production-based economy to a culture
                    increasingly identified and defined by consumption.62
                The cabinet itself had been designed in response to a set of readily discernible
                    socio-economic needs, at a time that coincided fortuitously with the development
                    of the ancillary industrial infrastructure that allowed the various cabinet
                    companies to maximize sales. But while these manufacturers benefited by
                    underscoring the values of systematic planning and efficiency, along with the
                    desirability of the cabinet's sleek, modern style, other developments
                    in the realm of kitchen furnishings were taking place that epitomized these
                    qualities even more relentlessly.
                By the 1930s, the Hoosier cabinet had begun to be cast as outdated and was being
                    rapidly supplanted in American kitchens by built-in cabinets. Although built-ins
                    were advertised as the truly modern kitchen furniture, they
                    were by no means an innovation of the 1920s, but had been a common feature in
                    many nineteenth-century houses, particularly those of the wealthier classes.
                    Although the butler's pantry is the best-known example, more modest
                    homes often had linen presses recessed into their kitchen and dining room walls.
                    Kitchens in some of the better endowed Shaker communities, such as 
                        Hancock
                     in 
                        Massachusetts
                    , were also sometimes furnished with built-ins.
                These earlier cabinets were site - built into the fabric of a house by skilled
                    carpenters, usually during the home's construction. As such, they were
                    absolutely fixed in place and could not be removed if a family relocated to a
                    new home. (One Hoosier cabinet company, Kitchen Maid, had portrayed its
                    product's portability as an asset in a 1919 advertisement.)63 Early built-ins were also relatively expensive, as they
                    required more refined carpentry than the basic construction and trimming out of
                    a house. As a result, they were uncommon among houses built for the working and
                    lower-middle classes.
                The manufacturers of freestanding kitchen cabinets had on more than one occasion
                    waged public relations campaigns against built-ins, which they recognized as a
                    potential threat in the market for middle-class kitchen 
                        62See, for example, Charles F McGovern, Sold American: Consumption and Citizenship, 1890-1945 (
                                Chapel
                                    Hill
                            , 
                                N.
                                    C.
                            , 2006); Benjamin R. Barber, Consumed: How
                                Markets Corrupt Children, Infantilize Adults, and Swallow Citizens
                                Whole (
                                New
                                    York
                            , 2007).
                        63Kennedy, Hoosier Cabinets,
                            144.
                    
                    furnishings. A 1925 Sellers advertisement
                    contrasted the "modern cabinet," which had been
                    "scientifically developed for culinary purposes," with the
                    "crudities of built-in shelves and cupboards."64 To be sure, the Hoosier did exemplify many attributes of the modern
                    ethos, with its numerous mechanical parts, easy-to-clean surfaces, and
                    efficient, step-saving design. Yet when millwork companies marketed their new
                    modular built-ins, they found it easy to convince the housewife that their
                    designs took the best of the free-standing cabinets'
                    "modern" qualities even further. Unlike the Hoosier, built-in
                    cabinets extended down to the floor, eliminating the space underneath where dust
                    and dirt could collect. The new built-ins could also be fitted seamlessly from
                    one wall to another and topped with a sanitary counter, further reducing
                    opportunities for grime to accumulate. Moreover, because they were available in
                    different widths and depths, the new built-ins could accurately be described as
                    even more efficient than freestanding cabinets, as they enabled landlords and
                    homeowners to maximize opportunities for storage in even the most irregular
                    spaces. They were also modern in the sense of being widely available to nearly
                    everyone, thanks to the very principles of efficiency and standardization that
                    the Hoosier Manufacturing Company had helped to pioneer. On top of all this, the
                    new built-ins had an indisputably more streamlined appearance than their
                    freestanding counterparts, which gave them the ultimate claim to being
                    "modern."
                Several manufacturers of freestanding cabinets responded to the new kitchen
                    furnishing competition by differentiating their wares still further from what
                    some called "mere built-in contrivances." They cut back on
                    claims highlighting functionality and focused instead on their
                    products' aesthetic appeal and style. Colorfully painted Hoosier
                    cabinets became popular, their doors' panels sometimes enhanced with
                    stenciled designs. A 1930 catalog published by the Hoosier Manufacturing
                    Company, for example, included cabinets in ivory, spring green, grey, orchid
                    pink, and citrus yellow, available with a decorative "pipe
                    organ" design on the upper cupboard doors. Kitchen Maid offered its
                    cabinets in "beautiful Golden Oak and Snowy White Enamel."65 The Sellers company attempted to bolster sales by
                    adopting designs traditionally associated with more formal types of furniture,
                    offering its basic Hoosier in a vaguely Mediterranean version with
                    "gay, artistic effects of the Spanish type." Sellers also
                    advertised a quasi-Early American model characterized as
                    "colonial," and a streamlined variation they called
                    "Klear Front Modern American."66 Still
                    another way of attempting 
                        64Ibid., 87.
                        65Ibid., 144.
                        66Ibid., 88.
                    
                    to stimulate sales was to offer companion
                    products - dishes, glassware, or other kitchen furniture such as stepstools,
                    breakfast sets, and worktables - at special prices with the purchase of a
                    cabinet. A Hoosier Manufacturing Company advertisement in 1931 offered a
                    "complete Hoosier ensemble - 8 pieces $59.50 plus freight from
                    factory"; in addition to a Hoosier cabinet, the set included a stool,
                    breakfast table with four chairs, and kitchen worktable.67
                While each of these strategies may have boosted the manufacturers'
                    flagging sales, they proved futile as long-term responses to the introduction of
                    modular built-ins. Several manufacturers, including Sellers, Hoosier, and
                    McDougall, eventually began producing their own lines of modular kitchen
                    cabinetry. As Jacquelyn Star points out, "By 1935 free-standing kitchen
                    cabinets were considered old-fashioned. A reader from 
                        Ottawa
                    , 
                        Kansas
                     wrote to The Grand Rapids Furniture Record
                    requesting 'the address of some firm who makes the old style kitchen
                    cupboard with glass doors.'"68 The
                    Hoosier's heyday was over.
                
                    67Ibid., 59.
                    68Star, "Free-Standing Kitchen
                        Cabinets," 54.
                
            
            
            
                The 1863 Diary of William H. Carroll, Mess No. 2, Company D, 24th Indiana
                    Volunteers
                William H. Carroll came from a family of farmers. His father Dixon and mother
                    Luticia moved with their family from 
                        North
                            Carolina
                    a (variously, in the late 1820s or early 1830s) and settled on land
                    in 
                        Daviess
                            County
                    , 
                        Indiana
                     Carroll (born in 1834 or 1835, depending on the source) grew up on
                    the family farm with his five brothers. When war came, five of the six brothers
                    fought for the Union: William and John in Company D of the 24th Indiana; Robert,
                    Nathaniel, and Dixon in Company G of the 42nd Indiana.1
                    William was mustered into the 24th Indiana Volunteer Infantry Regiment on July
                    2, 1861. He fought at Shiloh; was wounded at Champion Hill and remained with his
                    regiment through the siege of 
                        Vicksburg
                    ; reenlisted on December 31, 1863, in 
                        Louisiana
                    ; and fought almost until the end of the war, mustering out due to
                    multiple disabilities on May 29, 1865. By that time Carroll had developed severe
                    rheumatism and had impaired eyesight 
                        Initial transcription of the diary was done by Frank Carroll, a
                            great-great grandson of William. Mr. Carroll also provided copies of the
                            Carroll brothers' veterans records and of family histories
                            which were used in the introduction above. Mr. Carroll and his family
                            have generously donated the original diary, William Carroll's
                            original discharge, and a collection of family photographs to the Lilly
                            Library at Indiana University Bloomington.
                        1John (b. 1829) was mustered out of service in
                            July 1864, spent the rest of his life with a variety of illnesses and
                            injuries incurred during the war, and died in 1904; Robert (b. 1840) was
                            wounded at the Battle of Perryville in October 1862 when a bullet
                            fractured part of a vertebra and lived with disability in his hip and
                            leg until his death in 1912; Nathaniel (b. 1827) was wounded in the head
                            at the Battle of Stone River in December 1862 and died from the effects
                            of that injury in November 1864; Dixon (b. 1844) enlisted in March 1864,
                            was discharged in November 1865, and died in 1917.
                        INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, 105 (March 2009) C 2009, Trustees of
                            Indiana University
                    
                    
                    
                        William Carroll's 1863 diary Courtesy of
                            Frank Carroll
                     and hearing "caused by the explosion of his Powder magazine
                    at 
                        Mobile
                    
                    
                        Alabama
                    " just prior to his discharge. Despite his health problems,
                    Carroll returned to farming. He married Mary Hovison on December 14, 1870, and
                    they raised two sons, Benjamin and Ewin. Carroll died in May 1891.
                In March 1863 Carroll purchased a small pocket diary bound in black leather. It
                    was divided into days, with eight lines of space for each entry. Carroll wrote
                    on the back of the righthand flyleaf: "Wm H Carroll His Diary price 65
                    ct Bought March The 10 1863." His diary entries begin on Monday, March
                    16; they continue regularly through October 19 but then for the remainder of the
                    year, save for two entries on December 17 and 18, the record is empty.
                    Carroll's handwriting is clear, but he strove to fit every possible
                    word into his daily allotted space, and his hand sometimes grew miniscule,
                    pushed to the limits of the inside binding and the outside of the page, or
                    curved up or down at the end of an entry.
                Carroll's spelling is inventive and probably reflects his southern 
                        Indiana
                     accent - his "helth is tolerble," and
                    "the Wether is fine the contry Butiful." Letters drop out of
                    words - his "brigad" is "orderd" to move; he
                    sees fellow soldiers "wonded" and "kild."
                    Unfamiliar words change spelling as Carroll learns about the South -
                    "byough" becomes bayou, "
                        Vixburg
                    " becomes 
                        Vicksburg
                    .
                
                The little diary tells the story of only eight months of Carroll's long
                    war service, and it begins slowly, with the regiment in camp at 
                        Helena
                    , 
                        Arkansas
                    , drilling and waiting for new orders. On April 11, Carroll wrote:
                    "To day wee leave 
                        Helena
                     for parts unknown to us." The brigade boarded a ship bound
                    south on the Mississippi
                        River and on the 13th Carroll and his comrades arrived at
                    Milliken's Bend, "Whare wee found 2 Brigads more of Grants
                    army." Carroll and the 24th Indiana were on their way to 
                        Vicksburg
                    .
                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                Monday, March 16, 18632
                                The Wether fare & Warm Brigade drill from 2 till 5 pm
                                    commanded bye Gen Wallace A Gormon3 the
                                    Birgade consisting of 4 Regiments the 24 and 34 Ind Regiments
                                    not in the drill but being directed Wrong Wee marched 6 miles
                                    Rested & then marched back 2 mile to camp no mail I am
                                    Well
                                Tuesday 17
                                Wether fare and Warm 6 regiments out on Brigade drill from 4 till
                                    5 pm Com bye Gen Gormon The [ ] of Regiments [ ] ted plenty of
                                    fun & the River Still Riseing no
                                    news but plenty of beard todey Mess No 2 all Well but W W
                                    Johnson he is quite unwell No mail to day I am Well
                                Wednesday 18
                                Drill to day Co drill from half past 9 till half past 10 am then
                                    Brigade drill from 3 to 5 PM no news of importan no Mail I am In
                                    moderately Good Health at Present & hope I shall
                                    Continue so as health Is the greatest Blessing a soldir has
                                Thursday 19
                                to Day Drill again at the usual hours to Day about 10 am Earl of
                                    Co C 24th Ind vols Died Disease Small Pox some mail But no news
                                    of Importance I am well to Day & fell foxy Mess no 2 Is
                                    all right
                                
                                    2Introduction, footnotes, and
                                        transcription checking were done by the staff of the IMH.
                                        Empty square brackets indicate unclear or missing words or
                                        portions of words; letters within square brackets finish an
                                        otherwise unclear abbreviated word. Carroll's
                                        capitalization has been retained to the extent possible:
                                        some frequently capitalized letters, including R and W, are
                                        formed differently than the lower case; others, particularly
                                        the letter S, have fundamentally identical shapes whether
                                        lower or upper case, and the editors have made a best guess
                                        according to context, previous spelling of the word, and
                                        comparative size. Carroll's original prose often
                                        did not include standard punctuation, no doubt because of
                                        the shortness of each entry. In many entries, it is
                                        difficult to distinguish between punctuation and frequent
                                        pen marks, and so the editors have chosen to eliminate
                                        punctuation altogether. Above each entry we have used a
                                        version of the diary's own titles for each
                                        day.
                                    3Willis A. Gorman (1816-1876) was a
                                        former territorital governor of 
                                            Minnesota
                                        . Commissioned as Colonel of the 1st Minnesota
                                        Infantry at the outbreak of the war, Gorman was promoted to
                                        Brigadier General in October 1861 and commanded troops at
                                        the battles of Balls Bluff and Antietam. From December 1862,
                                        he commanded the District of Eastern Arkansas, Army of the
                                        Tennessee, until leaving the service in May 1864.
                                
                                
                                Friday 20
                                All Quiet to Day No news of Importance No Drill to Day &
                                    I am glad of It & But little mail river still rising
                                    & In all Probability we are going to have a heavy
                                    freshet I am In Bully health to Day Good night Mess No 2
                                Saturday 21
                                Still Quitt weather fine & warm and river Is still high
                                    Henry Dru[ ] of Co I 24 Ind vols was Drownd In the river Nere 
                                        Helena
                                    
                                    
                                        Ark
                                     some news & some little mail & am
                                    well & the Boys generally I am still foxy occasionly
                                Sunday 22
                                All Still Quiet to Day at 11 AM I attend Catholic Church then at
                                    three PM a large Congregation met In N [ fort we had speaking
                                    & religious exercises by the chaplin of [ ] then a short
                                    speech from Col Cameron4 of the 34th Ind
                                    vols I am well & [ ]
                                Monday 23
                                Still raining to Day & on a stand the river
                                    Is I was on fatigue Duty to Day Building Leve no mail no news
                                    But Still raining I am well & the 24th Is all OK I think
                                    I am now Old Enough to mary
                                Tuesday 24
                                Still Raining the River Still at about on a
                                    stand the back water over our camp tomorrow Wee Will move A
                                    large mail to day but I got no lettr It is to bad but I Will
                                    keepe coll I am Well & whroat one letter the old 24 is
                                    Still all OK Mess No 2 all fine
                                Wednesday 25
                                Still in camp Nere 
                                        Helena
                                     the Wether fare and Butiful Spring has come at last
                                    the fruit trees has began to bud and Blossom To day I am out on
                                    picket the river is Still falling Wee moved our camp to day I am
                                    Still in good helth no maill to day
                                
                                    4Col. Robert A. Cameron, 34th Indiana
                                        Volunteer Regiment. The 34th Indiana, like
                                        Carroll's regiment, was part of Gen. George
                                        McGinnis's 1st Brigade at 
                                            Vicksburg
                                        .
                                
                                
                                Thursday 26
                                Still fare & Warm & the River
                                    falling this morning I came in off of garde & found Co P
                                    all rite & in our new camp today Wee Received 2 months
                                    pay Some mail to day and I Wroat one letter Ness No 2 is Still
                                    all Well but Walter I am Still in good helth
                                Friday 27
                                Still in camp nere 
                                        helena
                                     it is cloudy With some Rain Co drill from half past
                                    9 till half past 10 AM then Brigade drill from 2 till 5 PM the
                                    Battalions commanded bye General Mc Ginis5
                                    consisting of the 24 and 34 Ind and the 29 Wesconsin Volunteers
                                    No mail to day I am Well
                                Saturday 28
                                Still cloudy to day and Some little rain no drill to day as it is
                                    Wash day and the one genraley used for cleanin up Goons Quarters
                                    clothing & preparatory to Sundy morning inspection I
                                    Received one letter to day from W Allison and Wroat one to G
                                    Carill no Special news from 
                                        Vicburg
                                     the River falling I am Still
                                    in moderate helth
                                Sunday 29
                                This is a very cold & Blustry day With Some little
                                    falling occasionly Wee had inspection this morning at 10 o clock
                                    AM then I Spent the evening in Town on fatig dewty Building a
                                    Bridge & Working on the streat No mail to day I am
                                    Well
                                Monday 30
                                To day I am out on picket the Wether coald & some snow
                                    falling had a mess of Gar for Supper & Wants it to be
                                    the last6 Wm Fitzgerald of Co D 24 Ind Vols
                                    Died this evning a bout 10 o clock PM in the Regimental Hospital
                                    no mail to day I am Still in good helth
                                
                                    5Brig. Gen. George McGinnis
                                        (1826-1910) joined the 11th Indiana Volunteer Infantry and
                                        rose through the ranks of Captain, Lt. Colonel, and Colonel
                                        in 1861. On November 29, 1862, after action at Fort
                                        Donelson, Shiloh, and Corinth, he was promoted to Brigadier
                                        General. After various brigade and division commands, he was
                                        mustered out in August 1865.
                                    6Gar are large freshwater fish that
                                        prefer the brackish, shallow waters of bayous, rivers, and
                                        lakes. They are edible but not sought after for their
                                        flavor.
                                
                                
                                Tuesday 31
                                To day it is Still coald but dare I came in off of picket this
                                    morning drill as usual to day but our compa did not drill on the
                                    account of having to attend the feuneral of Wm Fits our mail
                                    come to day I received one letter from Miss P & Wroat
                                    one to Wm A I am Well
                                Wednesday, April 1
                                Drill a gain to day & the usual times the Wether fine
                                    & nice nothing of importance going on at this post news
                                    of firing going on at the green naval Batery [ ] reports of
                                    Faraguts defeat7 no mail to day I am
                                    well
                                Thursday 2
                                Fine Wether but Rather Windy drill this morning but not in the
                                    afternoon the Green Naval Baterys taken allso a large amounts of
                                    coutton & Several prisners all is Quiate here but little
                                    news & Some mail I am Sill Well
                                Friday 3
                                The Wether fine co drill in the morning & Brigade drill
                                    in the afterknoon no news & no mail to day all quiate
                                    here & no prospect of us leaving here Soone helth is
                                    tolerble good Mess No 2 all Well but Walter my helth Still
                                    good
                                Saturday 4
                                The Wether Still fine & the River Still falling no
                                    drill to day Parsons came to See us this morning I received 3
                                    letters to day one from N.C. one from HC & one from IA
                                    at 2 o clock Walter lefte us to go on a hospital Boat I am
                                    well
                                
                                    7Adm. David G. Farragut (1801-1870)
                                        commanded the New Orleans expedition of 1861-1862, was
                                        promoted to Rear Admiral in July 1862 for opening the
                                            Mississippi River north toward 
                                            Vicksburg
                                        , and, after the capture of 
                                            Vicksburg
                                        , took Mobile Bay in 1864. Carroll
                                        is probably referring to the loss of Union ships at 
                                            Port Hudson
                                         on March 14. On March 27, Farragut's
                                        flagship USS Hartford sailed past
                                        Confederate guns at 
                                            Warrenton
                                        , just south of 
                                            Vicksburg
                                        . Just before this entry, on the night of March
                                        31, the Hartford, joined by the USS Albatross and the ram Switzerland, ran past 
                                            Grand Gulf
                                         and established a landing place for Union
                                        troops near 
                                            Bruinsburg
                                        , 
                                            Mississippi
                                        .
                                
                                
                                Sunday 5
                                This is Easter I Was out on guard to day the Wether fine
                                    & Warm attended a darkey meeting ett a half Dozen fried
                                    Eggs for dinner Which cost me 20 cents had a good time generaley
                                    Stood poast 2 hours my helth is good Mess No 2 all rite
                                Monday 6
                                This morning I was relieved & came in off of picket co
                                    drill at 10 o clock then at 2 o clock PM our hole force met at
                                    the fort to receive instructions from the Ware department
                                    & Was Well entertained by Gen Printice AP Hovey8 & others I am Well
                                Tuesday 7
                                Fine Wether & helth good Brigade drill at 2 o clock PM
                                    Before drill Was over We Was visited bye General Hovy Who
                                    informed us that Wee Would Soone leave here for the field of
                                    Battle This is the aniversry of the Shilough Battle in 18629
                                Wednesday 8
                                Still the Wether is fine this morning Wee Siged the pay roals up
                                    to the first of March 1863 Then in the evening Brigade drill the
                                    Boys ar having fine fun to day gethering up darkeys for the
                                    first contraband Regiment at this place10 I
                                    am Well
                                
                                    8At the time of this entry, Gen.
                                        Benjamin M. Prentiss (1819-1901) was in command of the
                                        District of Eastern Arkansas. Alvin P Hovey (1821-1891)
                                        began the war as Colonel of the 24th Indiana and was
                                        promoted to Brigadier General in April 1862. He commanded
                                        the 12th Division of the XIII Corps during the battle for 
                                            Vicksburg
                                        , winning distinction during the Battle of
                                        Champion Hill. He received a brevet promotion to Major
                                        General in 1864. After the war he served 
                                            Indiana
                                         as a US Congressman (1886-1888) and Governor
                                        (1888-1891).
                                    9The 24th lost thirty-two men (killed,
                                        wounded, and missing) at Shiloh; Union losses exceeded 13,
                                        000. See Richard J. Fulfer, History of the
                                            Trials and Hardships of the Twenty-Fourth Indiana
                                            Volunteer Infantry (
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1913), 33-41.
                                    10The first official black regiments
                                        were formed in April 1863 at 
                                            Milliken's
                                                Bend
                                         by Army Adjutant General Lorenzo Thomas. Fulfer
                                        records that on April 6 the entire brigade was addressed by
                                        Thomas, who "advocated that it would be much better
                                        to put the negroes up for a target to be shot at than for us
                                        to risk all of the danger ourselves." Fulfer, History of the Trials and Hardships,
                                        50-51, also records that "many of the boys
                                        deserted" upon hearing the news. Carroll's
                                        entry, in contrast, suggests that some of the troops helped
                                        to gather recruits from among the many former slaves who
                                        were following Grant's army. See also Martha M.
                                        Bigelow, "The Significance of 
                                            Milliken's
                                                Bend
                                         in the Civil War," Journal of Negro History, 45 (July 1960),
                                        156-63.
                                
                                
                                Thursday 9
                                the Day has been very pleasant some little mail I received 2
                                    letters for my portion In the Evening we went On review we was
                                    Inspected By Col Wm T Spicely11 of the 24th
                                    Command no news of Importence from the Army I am all right now
                                    for a good sleep
                                Friday 10
                                To day wee leave 
                                        Helena
                                     for parts unknown to us Wee lefte camp late in the
                                    eavening & Went on board of the Steemer Idy May after
                                    all Was on board & our Bagage all Secure the Boat dropt
                                    down to the mouth of the pass Whare wee found Qimbys hole
                                        division12 Some mail I am well
                                Saturday 11
                                This morning Still found us nere the mouth of the pass &
                                    no prospect of leavin for Some days in the evning it clouded up
                                    & began to rain Wee had a very disagreeable time
                                    & wee was up on horrican deck & no chance to
                                    Screne our Selvs from the pelting rain I am well
                                Sunday 12
                                This morning Still found us laying the Bar 5 miles Below 
                                        Helena
                                     our no here is 12 000 at 11 o clock AM Wee Steemed
                                    off down the River at 5 PM Wee past 
                                        Newpolian
                                     19 miles Below 
                                        Helena
                                     on the 
                                        Arkansas
                                     Side & Wee Wran on till dark then our Boats
                                    checked up & glided a long the Biger part of the night
                                    But I Went to Sleepe & let the World Wag as it Wood I am
                                    Well
                                
                                    11William T. Spicely (1823-1884) of 
                                            Orleans
                                        , 
                                            Indiana
                                        , was mustered into the 24th Indiana as Captain
                                        of Company G on July 31, 1861. When Hovey was promoted to
                                        brigadier general, Spicely, then a major, became the
                                        regiment's commanding Colonel. He retired with a
                                        brevet promotion to Brigadier General.
                                    12Gen. Isaac Quinby (1821-1891) and
                                        the 7th division of the XVII Corps had attempted to open the
                                        Yazoo Pass to send troops downriver to 
                                            Vicksburg
                                         and now waited to join Grant's larger
                                        force.
                                
                                
                                Monday 13
                                This morning When I a Woke up Wee was still on our way dow stream
                                    at 8 o clock AM Wee come to 
                                        Lake providence
                                     29 miles Below 
                                        Helena
                                     here wee past a large No o[f] Grants troops in camp
                                    then at 11 o clock AM Wee came to 
                                        Meligans Bend
                                     Whare wee found 2 Brigads more of Grants army13 here Wee landed till further orders it
                                    has bin prety mutch all the time I am still Well
                                Tuesday 14
                                still at 
                                        Millikans Bend
                                     The wether still wet Wee was orderd off of the boat
                                    to Bictch our tents but Before wee got them all pitched wee was
                                    orderd Back on the Boat bye this time it was nere dark and a
                                    fare prospect for Rain but Mess No 2 soone maid them selvs
                                    comfortable for the night no mail yet I am Well
                                Wednesday 15
                                This morning found us Sill at 
                                        Millikans Bend
                                     on Board of the old Ida May a bout 8 o clock AM wee
                                    was orderd of to give the hands a chance to wash of the Boat
                                    & I am now sitting flat on the ground in a large coutten
                                    field I have just Written a letter home & is now posting
                                    up my diary our division Will march in the morning at 6 o clock
                                    Harry Peck Was kild this evening I am well
                                Thursday 16
                                This morning at 6 o clock wee lefte campe at 
                                        Millikins Bend
                                     & marched to 
                                        Richmond
                                    
                                    
                                        Alabama
                                     about 10 miles from the 
                                        Bend
                                     Wee being the front Regiment Wee reached 
                                        Richmond
                                     at 2 o clock pm & Struck up camp for the
                                    night The Ballance of the division has a bout all come up
                                    & it is now 4 o clock I Shal sleepe on a bead of cotton
                                    to night Wee Will march a gain tomorrow morning at 6 o clock I
                                    am well
                                Friday 17
                                This morning our division left 
                                        Richmond
                                     at 6 o clock & toock up our line of march
                                    for the Rebal Gen Thomes plantations Which is 10 miles from
                                        
                                        13
                                                Milliken's
                                                  Bend
                                             was located just north of the last bend of
                                            the river before 
                                                Vicksburg
                                             and was one of the massing points for
                                            Grant's troops.
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                         Two pages of Carroll's diary. He
                                            filled each daily entry from mid-March through
                                            mid-October 1863 and chronicled his regiment's
                                            role in the final Vicksburg campaign.Courtesy of
                                            Frank Carroll
                                    
                                     Richmon & 25 from 
                                        Vixburge
                                     Wee reached Thomeses plantations at 3 o clock
                                    & Struck up camp for the night there is considerble
                                    canonading in the direction of 
                                        Vixburge
                                     I am Well
                                Saturday 18
                                Still in camp at Thomses plantation our teems Was Sent back to
                                    the River this morning for provisions & wee
                                    will probabilley say here 2 or 3 days the Wether is fine the
                                    contry Butiful & Beaf plenty wee Will make our Selvs
                                    Mary while the oppertunity lasts our Regiment is in fine
                                    condition & Mess No 2 all well
                                Sunday 19
                                Wee are Sill in camp at the Rebal Thomses & I have taken
                                    up my a bode under the float of a Neagrow Shanty wee had a
                                    considerble S[t]orme of Wind & rain last night the
                                    Wether to day is fare & fine Some mail today I am well
                                    & harty
                                Monday 20
                                Still in campe on Lawsons plantation the wether fine &
                                    plesent Some of our troops moveing on towords the River
                                    Below 
                                        Carthage
                                     to day orders for us to march on tomorrow morning
                                    at 6 o clock I am well
                                Tuesday 21
                                This morning at 6 o clock Am wee [ ] lefte camp & toock
                                    up our line of march a gain wee marched a bout 12 miles
                                    & Struck up camp on the plantation of a Mr Rebb his name
                                    I have not learned in a Short time after wee Struck camp wee had
                                    a hard Storm of rain & hail the coutry is Butiful I am
                                    in tolerble helth
                                Wednesday 22
                                To day Wee Still Remain in camp to day on General Thomases
                                    plantation Which is in 
                                        Palmyery Perish
                                     the old Gentleman has bin in fine circumstances but
                                    wee are making our Selvs Welcom to the old mans Beaf corn
                                    & pork & sutch things as wee can make useful for
                                    our comfort Mess No 2 is Sill all able for there groub
                                
                                Thursday 23
                                Still in camp on Dunbars planta in Sted of Thomases Wee are
                                    having very fine times & plenty to eat fresh Poark Beaf
                                    & cornbread Wee are Watin for a bridge to be built So
                                    that Wee can cross a Bayougho Some of our Boats run the Blockade
                                    at 
                                        Vixburg
                                     & there was hevvy fiering at them from the
                                    Rebal Baterys14 I am Well
                                Friday 24
                                Sill in camp on Dunbars plantation in pelimary perish Waiting for
                                    Some bridg to be built before Wee can proceede further15 all quiate at 
                                        Vicksburg
                                     last night the Wether is quite warm our troops
                                    Still in a fine condition Mess No 2 all well peas &
                                    fresh meat plenty I am well
                                Saturday 25
                                Still in camp wating for the Road to be put in order for us to
                                    move on with our Artillery & provision trains the wether
                                    is begining to git modertley warm all quiate last night
                                    & to day at 
                                        Vicksburg
                                     60 men detaild out of each Regiment this morning to
                                    work on the Roads co drill twiste a day & Role call 6
                                    times each day Mess No 2 is still all Well
                                Sunday 26
                                Still in camp on Dunbars plantation all still quiate at 
                                        Vicksburg
                                     the wether is very warm to day With considerble
                                    Sign of Rain the Bridges a cross the Byough is nerley completed
                                    & wee have received orders to be redy to march in the
                                    morning with 3 days rashens Bulley for the march Mess No 2 is
                                    all Write
                                Monday 27
                                This morning at half past 5 Wee lefte our camp on Dunbarrs
                                    plantation & marched a cross our new bridges &
                                    advanst a bout 8 miles & then Struck up camp 2 miles
                                    from the River the evening has bin very rainey wee
                                    received a large mail to day I am well & has just bought
                                    me a fine corn cake
                                
                                    14On the night of April 21, six boats
                                        tried the run past 
                                            Vicksburg
                                        ; three were badly damaged or sunk.
                                    15Much of the countryside between the
                                        campsites of the Union troops and the Mississippi
                                            River was flooded bayou, impassible for both
                                        men and artillery. Engineers were forced to build pontoon
                                        bridges to create crossings.
                                
                                
                                Tuesday 28
                                This morning Wee lefte Judg Picken[s?] plantation &
                                    marched to the River 2 miles then our
                                    hole [Brigade]16 embarked on board of the
                                    forest Quene & on 3 barges that was toed bye the Quene
                                    & in the night wee droped down nere 
                                        Grand Gulf
                                    17 wee will disembarke here
                                    & march on to 
                                        Grand Gulf
                                     I am Well
                                Wednesday 29
                                This morning found us in fare Vew of 
                                        Grand Gulf
                                    18 at 8 o clock 7 of our Goon
                                    boats engaged the Rebal Batterys at the Gulf & a heavvy
                                    fiering contineud till 1 o clock pm t[h]en our Goon boats drew
                                    off having silenced all but one batery With a small damage to
                                    the boats but reports of men kild on our Side Wee Will cross
                                    over & try their strength tomorrow Wee are in camp for
                                    the night I am Well
                                Thursday 30
                                Earley this morning wee all embarked on board of the Goon boats
                                    & transports to cross the Riverour Regiment
                                    & one other was on board of the flag Ship Benton
                                    & was honerd with the presence of Gen Grant Agtantl9 Gen Thomas
                                    & Comodore Porter20 in one Short
                                    wride Wee are now 9 miles below 
                                        Grant Gulf
                                     on the 
                                        Miss
                                     Side waiting for further orders I am well
                                Friday, May 1
                                The union forces With General McClenard21 at
                                    the hed of comman[d] Battle of Bayou hear the Roll opened at 7 o
                                    clock Am & lasted till darke our troops 
                                        16Carroll added the word in pencil
                                            above the line.
                                        17In the back of the diary,
                                            amongst an assortment of lists and other materials,
                                            Carroll wrote "The Names of Boats that wran the
                                            Blockade at 
                                                Vicksburg
                                             Transports The Forest Queen J W Cheasnon
                                            Victor Moderator Received 42 Shells."
                                        18The Union bombardment inflicted
                                            considerable damage but did not destroy the
                                            fortifications. Grant was forced to settle on a landing
                                            point further south; he chose 
                                                Bruinsburg
                                            . Carroll also included a separate, longer
                                            account of 
                                                Grand Gulf
                                             at the back of the diary, which appears
                                            here after the diary entries.
                                        19Carroll later crossed out the
                                            word in pencil.
                                        20David Dixon Porter (1813-1891)
                                            was given the rank of Commodore in April 1861. He had
                                            already been with Farragut at the capture of 
                                                New Orleans
                                             in March 1862.
                                        21Gen. John A. McClernand
                                            (1812-1900) was appointed Brigadier General in May 1861
                                            and commanded divisions at Fort Henry, Fort Donelson,
                                            and Shiloh. From January through June of 1863 he
                                            commanded the XIII Corps from 
                                                Grand Gulf
                                             through 
                                                Champion Hill
                                             and the siege on 
                                                Vicksburg
                                            . After commanding the XIII Corps during the
                                            Red River expedition in early 1864, he resigned due to
                                            poor health.
                                    had marched all night
                                    previous to the Battle without Sleepe or rest the No of our
                                    troops When the Battle began was a bout 10.000 but night found
                                    us with 30.00022 the No of Rebals engaged
                                    not known the kild & wonded on our Sid not yet known the
                                    24 Ind had 4 kild & Several Wonded Co [I?] had one kild
                                    & non Wonded I am well [21 kild & wonded]23
                                Saturday 2
                                This morning wee was up earley expecting fight again to day but
                                    lo & behold the Rebbs was all gone we put out after them
                                    & at 7 o clock our advance reached 
                                        port Gibson
                                     but the Rebals had crossed the Bayou in the night
                                    & Burnt 2 Bridges to prevent our persuit after them our
                                    Brigade reached 
                                        port Gibson
                                     at elevon o clock & is now camped in the
                                    Streats I am Still well A great Victory on our side
                                Sunday 3
                                this morning Wee lefte 
                                        port Gibson
                                     at 5 & marched a bout 6 miles in the
                                    direction of 
                                        Vixburge
                                     & then our Reg deploid out & Spent
                                    nerley half of the day Scouring the woods in search of Stragling
                                    Rebals our [mov?] bye the flank Wee came in to the same road
                                    that wee had travaeld 3 miles in the rere of the place wee
                                    deploid the division advanced on a bout 12 miles & wee
                                    came up with at 8 o clock in the night having marched a bout 25
                                    miles I am in good helth
                                Monday 4
                                To day Wee are laying in camp a bout 12 miles from 
                                        Port Gibson
                                     on the Vicksburg Road & our next point will
                                    be the Bridge across Black river the Rebbs is Sed to
                                    be fortified & in considerble force at that place I am
                                    out on picket Guard to day & having a very good time
                                    only Groob is rather Short 
                                        22Grant landed 22,000 men on the 
                                                Mississippi
                                             shore. Union troops had to fight their way
                                            inland; they met Confederate defenders about 5 miles
                                            west of 
                                                Port Gibson
                                            . Grant later wrote of the landing:
                                            "I was on dry ground on the same side of the
                                            river with the enemy. All the campaigns, labors,
                                            hardships and exposures from the month of December
                                            previous to this time that had been made and endured,
                                            were for the accomplishment of this one
                                            object." Personal Memoirs of U. S.
                                                Grant, ed. E. B. Long (
                                                Cambridge
                                            , 
                                                Mass.
                                            , 2001), 252.
                                        23Carroll entered this bracketed
                                            text between the entries for Friday and Saturday.
                                    
                                    our Bread has given out but
                                    our Quartermaster has furnished With each a point of which is to
                                    serve for 2 meals I am well
                                Tuesday 5
                                To day wee are laying in camp wating for our provision train to
                                    come up but it did not come wee have bin 2 days without bread
                                    but wee eat meat & drank tea & corn hust
                                        coffee24 & done fine Some Boiled
                                    peas & eat them for bread & others eat Barched
                                    corn Wee received a good large mail to day I received one letter
                                    & wroat one home but did not git to Send it off to the
                                        River I am in good helth Wee march tomor
                                    morning
                                Wednesday 6
                                This morning wee was up earley & redy to march bye 4 o
                                    clock up to this time our train had not come up our breakfast
                                    consisted of meat & tea Wee lefte camp at 5 o clock
                                    & marched a bout 6 miles then Struck up camp the object
                                    of our move was to git a better chance to forage a detail was
                                    lefte back to forage as wee come then an other was sent out
                                    & the have returned with plenty of meat & shugar
                                    but no bread but wee managed to git 2 crackers a peace from head
                                    quarters our train has not yet come up but wee are grinding meal
                                    & will live any way I am Well
                                Thursday 7
                                This Morning found us in camp nere 
                                        Rockey Springs
                                     here wee remained untill 12 then Woard came that
                                    the Rebals was advancing to ward us & wee was orderd
                                    forward a bout 3 miles on the ground that had bin selected to
                                    form on in line of Battle with our artillery all redy to receive
                                    them Should the[y] come the day is now at a close & wee
                                    are redy to give Battle to at least 100.000 Rebals our train has
                                    not yet come I am Well
                                Friday 8
                                To day Wee are Still laying in camp a bout 4 miles from 
                                        Rockey Springs
                                     & a bout the Same distance from Black River
                                    between the 2 all is quiate in camp in the evening Wee was
                                    revewed by Gen Grant Some Stragling Rebals 
                                        24Soldiers used corn husks, beets,
                                            peas, acorns, rye grain, and other substances - dried,
                                            roasted, and finely ground - to substitute for coffee.
                                            For recipes, see William C. Davis, A Taste
                                                for War: The Culinary History of the Blue and the
                                                Gray (
                                                Mechanicburg
                                            , 
                                                Pa.
                                            , 2003), 176-78.
                                    
                                    brought in to day 3 men of co
                                    K Was pict up bye the Rebles to day & taken a cross
                                        Black
                                        River but they maid their escape & came
                                    into camp part of our train came up this Evning & wee
                                    drew some grub I am quite unwell
                                Saturday 9
                                Wee are Still in camp & no excitement onley one sutler
                                    has just come up & the Boys is making a terible rush for
                                    tobacco I am Still quite unwell Wee have some chance to send
                                    letter to day I have written 2 there is Still deserters coming
                                    in evry day groob is Still Scarce withe us especialey coffee
                                    & tea our Reg is still in fine helth wee will march to
                                    morrow
                                Sunday 10
                                This morning wee lefte our camp 4 miles from 
                                        Rockey Springs
                                     at 8 o clock & marched nere 8 miles
                                    & then Went in to camp for the night in our march to day
                                    wee past a little Town cald 
                                        Cinga
                                     & wee are now in camp a bout 2 miles beyond
                                    the little town on the Jackson Road 30 miles from 
                                        Jackson
                                    25 this morn J Myers takes his
                                    persition in the 1 Miss Neagro Regiment as captan26 the wether pleasant but very dusty marching I am in
                                    tolerble helth a gain
                                Monday 11
                                To day wee Remaind in camp Wating for Shermans corps that has
                                    just come up to pass on to the front as his corps is to be first
                                    in the next Battle our front picketts drove back bye the Rebas
                                    to day another Battle expected in Side of 2 days the Rebals in
                                    force 14 miles from 
                                        Jackson
                                     our Boys is in fine Sperits to day plenty of fresh
                                    meat coffee & crackers while it lasts helth is good I
                                    have written one letter home today I am well
                                Tuesday 12
                                This morning wee moved forward at a earley hour &
                                    advanced a bout 4 miles on the Jackson Road & came
                                    incontact with the Rebal picketts our 
                                        25Instead of heading directly
                                            north to 
                                                Vicksburg
                                             after landing at 
                                                Bruinsburg
                                            , Grant headed northeast toward 
                                                Jackson
                                            , which was a crucial railroad and telegraph
                                            center linking 
                                                Vicksburg
                                             with the rest of the South.
                                        26The First Mississippi Negro
                                            Regiment was part of the "African
                                            Brigade," the first ten black regiments formed
                                            by order of Gen. Thomas in April 1863.
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                        One of the five Carroll brothers - William,
                                            according to a later note on the back of the photograph
                                            - who fought in the Civil War. Courtesy of Frank
                                            Carroll
                                     cavald drove them back a cross a creat then our
                                    Artillery Shelld the woods a While & then Wee moved
                                    warward in line of Battle & crost the creat whare wee
                                    formed our line & will not move forward till morning wee
                                    expect to meat then in force tomorrow at 
                                        Edwards
                                     about 4 miles from this creak I am well
                                Wednesday 13
                                To day Wee moved on Som 2 miles from camp & gain came on
                                    to the Enimys pickett & our advance Scouts &
                                    chrinishers past Several Shotts with them but no damage was done
                                    to our men except one horse slitley wonded in the head a hot
                                    Batle bye Logans division & the Rebbs [ ] [ light at 
                                        Raymond
                                     considerble loss on boath sides but a complete
                                    Victory on our side but 300 Rebal prisners taken I am well
                                Thursday 14
                                This morning wee was up earley & on the march to 
                                        Jackson
                                     at eleven o clock Wee past 
                                        Raymond
                                     & wee learned that our loss in the Battle
                                    at that place was 53 kild wonded & prisners but the
                                    moste of them ware taken prisners but the perticulars of the
                                    battle I have not yet learned heavey rain on us today Wee went
                                    in to camp a bout 2 o clock after marching some 10 miles in hevy
                                    rain & mud
                                
                                Friday 15
                                A Battle at Jackson yesterdy a complete Victory on our Side27 our division Was up earley this morning
                                    & on the march a bout 9 o clock wee came to 
                                        Clinton
                                     then wee toock the Vicksburg Road & marched
                                    to Boltons depot about 8 miles here wee expected a fight but
                                    mist it So we lay here to night
                                Saturday 16
                                Marched at 6 AM marched out about 4 miles and met the enemy at 10
                                    AM the battle opened the enemy stood up bravely but we drove
                                    them slowly about noon the[y] massed their forces against our
                                    left we were forced back but reenforcements come just in time
                                    and the victory was on our side I was wounded in the rist
                                    & face28
                                Sunday 1729
                                Getting along fine The Adjutant has made out his report Total in
                                    killed wounded and missing 201 of our Regt Co D none killed 17
                                    wounded 1 missing Heavy cannonading in the direction of
                                        Black
                                        river bridge this morning The Black river
                                    bridge is in our possession the enemy have fallen back to their
                                    works at 
                                        Vicksburg
                                    30
                                
                                    27After Union troops entered 
                                            Jackson
                                        , they set about destroying rail tracks and
                                        telegraph lines and setting fire to factories and
                                        businesses. They left the town ungarrisoned and turned west
                                        toward 
                                            Vicksburg
                                        .
                                    28Confederate forces led by the
                                        commanding officer at 
                                            Vicksburg
                                        , Gen. John C. Pemberton, moved too late and too
                                        slowly to intercept Union troops at 
                                            Jackson
                                        . Instead they made their stand at 
                                            Champion Hill
                                        , where they thought to stop the Union advance.
                                        The 24th Indiana, led by Alvin Hovey and William Spicely,
                                        was one of the regiments which first met the Confederate
                                        line. More than three hours of intense fighting ensued
                                        before they were relieved by other regiments and could fall
                                        back. Gen. McGinnis called the battle "one of the
                                        most obstinate and murderous conflicts of the war";
                                        Spicely wrote of a "desperate and
                                        destructive" struggle "under the most
                                        galling fire I ever witnessed." The Confederate
                                        line was finally broken and the defeated troops retreated to 
                                            Vicksburg
                                        . Union losses were heavy: the 24th Indiana,
                                        from a force of about 500 men, suffered 207 killed and
                                        wounded in that single day. Carroll was among the wounded,
                                        as he notes in his diary, and his health continued to be an
                                        issue in the weeks and months afterward. See report of Brig.
                                        Gen. George F McGinnis, May 19, 1863, at
                                        http://www.civilwarhome.com/mcginnischampionhillor.htm;
                                        Report of Col. William T. Spicely, May 17, 1863, at
                                        http://www.battleofchampionhill.org/24indiana.htm.
                                    29Many of the entries from May 17
                                        through June 8 are in at least two different hands than
                                        Carroll's.
                                    30On several occasions, including this
                                        entry, it is clear from changes in ink and/or handwriting
                                        that entries were made throughout a day rather than all at
                                        one time.
                                
                                
                                Monday 18
                                Still at the Hospital getting along fine the wounded are doing as
                                    well as could be expected no reliable news from the advance all
                                    quiet in camp Orders to move forward tomorrow I went to camp to
                                    go long we hear an occasional heavy gun in the direction of 
                                        Vicksburg
                                     at night
                                Tuesday 19
                                Prepareing to move the prisoners were move out at 7 AM we broke
                                    Camp about 12 marched about 11 miles crossed Big Black river
                                    and camped on the opposite side Some cannonading all day toward 
                                        Vicksburg
                                     hea[v]y cannonading all night31
                                Wednesday 20
                                No news from the advance very heavy cannonading in the direction
                                    of 
                                        Vicksburg
                                     we had orders to move at 4 AM but the order was
                                    countermanded just as we were falling in to start32 Still Hevy fireing nere 
                                        Vicksburg
                                     & as wee received orders not to move
                                    forward Wee moved our camp & Still remains at Black River
                                    Bridge I am still mending
                                Thursday 21
                                This morning found us Still at Black River Still heavy fiering
                                    at 
                                        Vicksburg
                                     a bout knoon one Brigade was orderd forward
                                    & the 2[ ] Brigade under Col Slack was lefte to guard
                                    the Bridge & holde the enimy in check Should any come up
                                    in the rere33 all of our Sick &
                                    Slitley Wonded was lefte here under a capton & 1 Lieut
                                    & a guard till further orderd Still fighting at 
                                        Vicksburg
                                     I am Still mending
                                Friday 22
                                This morning found us all gitting a long fin but found us without
                                    any grub Still hevy fiering at 
                                        Vicksburg
                                    g & no orders for us to move forward but
                                    frequent Reports that our men is pressin the Rebbs &
                                    gaining Som of their 
                                        31Grant began his first direct
                                            assault on 
                                                Vicksburg
                                             on this day.
                                        32Carroll's handwriting
                                            reappears in the rest of this entry and remains through
                                            June 2.
                                        33Col. James R. Slack, 47th
                                            Indiana Volunteer Regiment, commanded the 2nd Brigade of
                                            Hovey's XII Division at 
                                                Vicksburg
                                            .
                                    
                                    Strong holds it is reported
                                    this evning that Gen Osterhouses division Sufferd a considerble
                                    loss to day in charging the Rebal fortifications Which point he
                                    gaind but had to fall back34 1 am still
                                    mending
                                Saturday 23
                                This morning found us Still at the River & all doing as
                                    well as could be expected our headquarters since wee have bin
                                    here is at the residence of a Widowed Lady She has bin very
                                    mutch excited ever since the Battle here 2 cannon Balls past
                                    through her house dewering the fight a bout 10 o clock wee got
                                    order to move forward & join our Brigade Wee done so and
                                    reached them nere night but all except the Sick and Some wonded
                                    Was in the line of Battle in front of the Enemy & still
                                    they resist I am still on the mend
                                Sunday 24
                                This morning finds us all of the 24 Still a live that reached
                                    this place but 4 of our Boys has bin Serousley Wonded Since they
                                    came here & Several others of our Brigade has bin kild
                                    & wonded & Still this continues our Boys is
                                    still engaged & I have not Saw but few of them yet it is
                                    the intention to take 
                                        Vicksburg
                                     bye regular seage Banks is expected Soon with
                                    50:000 men35 I am mending finley
                                Monday 25
                                Getting along as well as could be expected Our Regt relieved AM
                                    by other Regts from the 2nd Brigade come out to camp for the
                                    purpose of cleaning up Our commander asked two hours in the
                                    afternoon for the purpose of burying the dead36 the firing all ceased till the time was up and then
                                    commenced again all quiet at night
                                
                                    34The second assault on 
                                            Vicksburg
                                         began on the 22nd. As a result of the two
                                        attempts, 659 Union troops were left dead between the lines
                                        of the two forces, with almost 3500 men wounded or
                                        missing.
                                    35Maj. Gen. Nathaniel Banks began
                                        moving his XIX Corps northward from the 
                                            New Orleans
                                         area in early April. On May 23, one day before
                                        Carroll's entry, Banks began his assault on 
                                            Port Hudson
                                        , a Confederate stronghold on the Mississippi
                                            River south of 
                                            Vicksburg
                                        . After three direct, failed assaults in May and
                                        June, Banks's forces also settled in for a siege,
                                        which was broken by the surrender of 
                                            Port Hudson
                                         on July 7.
                                    36The request for burial actually came
                                        from Pemberton, who offered the truce because the stench of
                                        the rotting bodies was so intense.
                                
                                
                                Tuesday 26
                                Firing commenced at daylight This morning & Was kep up
                                    Stediley all day Some Rebals deserting occasionley &
                                    coming over to our Side holding a bunch of coton in their hand
                                    for a flag of peace deserters Report that Scoars of Women
                                    & children are Being kild in the citty37 all quiate to night our Regiment toock them on the
                                    line a gain to day I received 2 letters to day I am Still on the
                                    mend
                                Wednesday 27
                                This mornin the firing Has returned a gain at anearley hour
                                    & Was kep up Briskeley all day but there was but little
                                    loss occerd on our side the report to day is that the Rebbs had
                                    offered to Surender up all their army & the city to Gen
                                    Grant if he Would just let one man out that was in thare
                                    & he was Supposed as president Jef38
                                    I am tolerbley well
                                Thursday 28
                                This morning finds us Still out side of the Rebals fortifications
                                    & hevy Bombarding is Still going on but the cannonading
                                    is principaley on our Side but considerble firing bye the Sharpe
                                    Shooters on Both sides onley 1 man Was Brought in to the
                                    Hospital Wonded to day from our division but he is thought to be
                                    mortaley I Received 2 letters to day and Started 1 home
                                Friday 29
                                This morning found us gitting a long fine & the fighting
                                    Still going on earley this morning heavy fiering Was kep up a
                                    long our entier line for the space of 30 minnites thru the day
                                    firing seased & slow firing was kep up till 5 pm
                                    & then a terific fier from our hole line was kep up for
                                    a short time 
                                        37Many women and children
                                            retreated to caves dug into the sides of 
                                                Vicksburg
                                            's hills. See, for example, Mary
                                            Loughborough, My Cave Life in 
                                                  Vicksburg
                                                 with Letters of Trial and Travel (
                                                New York
                                            , 1864). Many civilians were injured or
                                            killed by shells; disease and starvation affected many
                                            more by the end of the 47-day siege. Terrence J.
                                            Winschel, Triumph & Defeat: The
                                                Vicksburg Campaign (
                                                New York
                                            , 2004), 139-56.
                                        38Jefferson Davis had visited 
                                                Mississippi
                                             in December 1862 and toured 
                                                Vicksburg's
                                             defenses, but the
                                            "report" that Carroll heard was just
                                            gossip - Davis followed the siege and surrender of the
                                            city from his offices in 
                                                Richmond
                                            , 
                                                Virginia
                                            . Michael B. Ballard, 
                                                  Vicksburg
                                                : The Campaign that Opened the Mississippi (
                                                Chapel Hill
                                            , 
                                                N. C.
                                            , 2004), 126, 388-89, 424-25.
                                    
                                    & then abated then a
                                    bout dark the morters began & threw Shell all night no
                                    indications of a surrender yet of 
                                        Vicksburg
                                    
                                
                                Saturday 30
                                This morning finds the Sick & wonded all doing Well the
                                    Bombarding is Still going on but with little Reply from the
                                    Rebals artillery Some little musketry is going on from boath
                                    sides 9 deserters from the Rebal ranks Was taken in this morning
                                    the firing has bin kep up sloley all day it is now nerley 7 o
                                    clock pm & the fiering has nerley seased all is going on
                                    fine no kild or wonded reported to day
                                Sunday 31
                                Still at the Hospital but doing fine the Bombarding is still
                                    going on to day part of our Brigad relievs the 2 & takes
                                    their old persition none reported kild or wonded in our Regiment
                                    today & none in the division that I have herd of
                                    considerble fiering kep up all day the Sick & Wonded
                                    doing fine I have writen 1 letter to day
                                Monday, June 1
                                This morning the Bombardment is Still going on wee now has a line
                                    of Riful pitts & our men Were protected clare a long our
                                    line the Work is going on Sloley but Shur I think I did not here
                                    of any being kild or Wonded to day on our side the Sick
                                    & wonded is doing well the men generly are Well
                                Tuesday 2
                                Still the Strife continues & the fiering was a gain
                                    reneued This morning last night 2 allarms was given & it
                                    Was thought the Rebals Ware aiming to make a breake on some part
                                    of our line but was found to be in consiqueince of us planting a
                                    battery whare the Rebles did not Want it & tried to
                                    prevent it but faild
                                Wednesday 339
                                the sige is still kept with no apperance of a speedy termination
                                    of it the rebels fired at us with their artillery both this
                                    morning and evening they did 
                                        39The entries for June 3 through
                                            June 8 are not in Carroll's hand. His hand
                                            resumes in the June 9 entry.
                                    
                                    but little damage our
                                    artillery played on them very rapidly our sharp shooters also
                                    played on them I am quite unwell to day in Hospital
                                Thursday 4
                                the fireing was kept up pretty fast for awhile this morning also
                                    considerable fireing this evening occasioned by the enemy
                                    throwing some shell at us they did us very little damage my
                                    health is no better to day still quite sick in the Hospital
                                Friday 5
                                Nothing of much importance going on around the lines today
                                    occasional canonading from our guns and a few shels from the
                                    enemy still in the Hospital no better
                                Saturday 6
                                Less fireing on the line today than common no shelling from the
                                    enemys guns Slow musketry all day Still in the Hospital but
                                    mending fast Weather very hot and sultry
                                Sunday 7
                                Usual firing kept up today from both sides No better than
                                    yestriday Warm but very nice clear weather
                                Monday 8
                                No more fireing on the line than common still occassional
                                    canonadeing and very close sharpshooting Still in the Hospital
                                    mending slowly
                                Tuesday 9
                                To day the bombardment Still going on Hevy firing is kep up in
                                    the morning & evning but rather calm in the middle of
                                    the day owing to the heat No perticular indications of a
                                    Surrender yet on the part of the Rebals & no intention
                                    on the part of Gen Grant to give them up I am Still very
                                    porley
                                Wednesday 10
                                This morning finds me Still Very porley but some better the
                                    fighting is still going on Heavey Rain this morning earley
                                    & Several hard Showers through the day but it is now nere night
                                    & has clard off & hevy firing is going on this
                                    evning from the Morters & from the Seage goons I am Sill
                                    qite porley no mail for Several days
                                Thursday 11
                                To day matters Went on a bout as usual 1 man Was kild in our Reg
                                    & one Slitley wonded the Sick & Wonded are all
                                    doing as well as could be expected at the Hospitals I am Still
                                    mending Slowley the Wether is quite Warm no mail to day
                                Friday 12
                                Still fighting to day 1 man Slitley Wonded in our Regiment to day
                                    the Sick & Wonded are Still doing Well helth is
                                    generaley good a mong our troops the Wether is still Very Warm
                                    in the day & cool of nights I am Still mending
                                    sloley
                                Saturday 13
                                To day the fighting Still is going on as usual 3 diserted the
                                    Rebal lines last night & come over & one Rebal
                                    Lieutenant Was taken prisner but I have not herd any Special
                                    Report from them the Sick & Wonded are doing Well
                                Sunday 14
                                The Bombardment is Still going on & will probabily last
                                    for some days yet but it is Sertin to fall eare the Seage closes
                                    the fireing Was Kep Up Briskley on our side all day the Wether
                                    is quite plesent I am mending
                                Monday 15
                                To day the fighting is Still going on the firing has bin hevy on
                                    boath Sids from the artillery & occasionley from the
                                    infantry but this evning the firing has partley Seast &
                                    it is tolerble camb the Sick & Wonded are doing well I
                                    am mending fine & Will return to the camp soon
                                Tuesday 16
                                Last night & to day the firing has bin kep up constantley
                                    on each Side & in the evening late the Rebals used their
                                    artillery more than common our line is advancing on them
                                    constantley at different points the helth is Still good I am
                                    still mending
                                
                                Wednesday 17
                                This morning the fighting is Still going on hevy & was
                                    kep up all last night Charley Chandler of Co C was kild this
                                    morning bye a Rebal Shot passing through his head this evning at
                                    7 o clock our men intend throwing hot shot in to the citty for
                                    the perpos of firing the citty40 I am still
                                    mending
                                Thursday 18
                                This morning I lefte the Hospital & returned to the co
                                    but I am Still Very Weeke & in a pore State of helth the
                                    fighting is Still goind on 1 man kild in our Reg this morning
                                    the wether Very hot & disagreeabil no Sign of a Rebal
                                    Surrender helth is tolerble good a mong the troops
                                Friday 19
                                This morning Still found me in pore helth & the fighting
                                    Still going on 4 men in our Brigade Reported Wonded to day
                                    moderate firing kep up all day Some mail this morning but no
                                    letter for me no one hurt in our Reg to day this evening finds
                                    me all moste down a gain
                                Saturday 20
                                This morning finds me Still Very unwell hevier firing this
                                    morning than usual on our Sid 1 man in our Reg got his lefte arm
                                    broken to peaces this morn bye 1 of our Shells bussting over the
                                    Regiment the days are still Warm & the nights quite cool
                                    helth a mong the troops is tolerble I am Still quite unwell
                                Sunday 21
                                Still the fighting is going on a bout as usual different kinds of
                                    reports are in circulation relitive to the condition of the
                                    Rebals & Some give their time to surrender but as yet
                                    there is no Sign on their part I am Still porley
                                Monday 22
                                Still the Same program is going on this morning & our men
                                    Still continue to advance their lines nerer to the Rebals works
                                    & the fighting appears to be more general all a long the
                                    line I am Still porley
                                
                                    40"Hot shot" was
                                        solid metal shot that was heated and then used against
                                        wooden ships, fortifications, or, in this case, city
                                        buildings, in the hope that the target(s) would catch
                                        fire.
                                
                                
                                Tuesday 23
                                Still the Same kind of a job on hands to day & each Side
                                    begins to appeare more in earnest & the fighting more
                                    Severe Some few kild & wonded evry day on our Side to
                                    day our Regiment received 2 months pay I am Still quite
                                    unwell
                                Wednesday 24
                                Still wee are engaged in the same old job of thrashing wee have
                                    had fine wether & Several fare days roon but our boys
                                    are well up to the buisness & wee expect in a Short time
                                    to be able to fill a large Stoar house full of Rebals I am Still
                                    porley but on the mend
                                Thursday 25
                                Still the thrashing is going on this after knoon a bout 4 o clock
                                    a part of the principal fort cald Quene of 
                                        Vicksburg
                                     was Blown up bye our men then immediatley the
                                    fiering began all a long our line boath artillery &
                                    infantry & a better sign of ware has not happend before
                                    I am a Soldier a gain as I fierd 10 rounds in the fray
                                Friday 26
                                Still to day the fighting is going on yester General Logan toock
                                    possession of part of the fort that was Blown up With a slite
                                    loss & is still holding his part up to the present time
                                    & is [ ] contending with the Rebs for their fort which
                                    they are Still striveing to hold but the Gen is preparing to
                                    give them a second Blast41
                                Saturday 27
                                Still the seage continues & Gen Logan is still in
                                    possession of his part of the Rebal Fort Quean of 
                                        Vicksburg
                                     & it is Sed that boath sides are using hand
                                    granads & Six pound Shell which they throw with their
                                    hands using a 
                                        41In what became known as
                                            Logan's Approach, forces under the command of
                                            Maj. Gen. John Logan spent weeks digging a trench which,
                                            on June 22, arrived at the bottom slope of the 3rd Redan
                                            of the 
                                                Vicksburg
                                             fortress. The troops then tunneled under
                                            the redan and planted and detonated explosives. Union
                                            forces and 
                                                Vicksburg
                                             defenders spent 20 hours fighting in the
                                            crater caused by the explosion, with heavy casualties on
                                            both sides, but Logan's troops were unable to
                                            take even that small portion of the city's
                                            defenses. A similar attack was planned for early July
                                            but rendered unnecessary by the city's
                                            surrender.
                                    
                                    Second fuse42 this I Should Say was quick work last night I was
                                    out on pickett but Was quite unwell
                                Sunday 28
                                To day the fighting is Still going on a bout as usual our men
                                    Still keepe advansing on the Rebal works & is
                                    Vigorousley engaged in advansing their Riful pitts nere their
                                    forts So as to tunnel under them & Blow them up
                                    & has Sofare bin Successful I am Still Very unwell
                                Monday 29
                                Still the Seage continues & there is no Visible Sign of a
                                    Surrender yet to day our co was on deuty in the Riful pitts the
                                    fore part of the day I Said in the pitts & done Some
                                    Shooting but in the after knoon I remaind in qarters not being
                                    able for deuty the days is quit warm & the nites cool I
                                    am still porley
                                Tuesday 30
                                Well the last day of June has come & past & still 
                                        Vicksburg
                                     has not fallen but wee trust as it is bound to fall
                                    in to our hands Sooner or later that the 4th of July will find
                                    us Released from our present persition & quiateley
                                    camped on the banks of the old Miss or on the hits
                                    of 
                                        Vicksburg
                                     I am still porley
                                Wednesday, July 1
                                This morning Which is the 1 of July Still finds us contending for
                                    the Rebals Strong hold & they Still Seeme to disput our
                                    Wright to come in hevy canonading has bin going on the greater
                                    part of the day this evening Gen Logan give the fort Quene of 
                                        Vicksburg
                                     another blast making another large brake in it I am
                                    still porley
                                Thursday 2
                                Still the fighting is going on & our commanders Still
                                    appears to have all confidence in our final Success & if
                                    Reports be true the time is not fare distent 
                                        42Early patented hand grenades,
                                            activated by a plunger inserted just before the device
                                            was thrown, were seldom used. Improvised grenades were
                                            used at 
                                                Vicksburg
                                             once the two armies were within a short
                                            distance of each other. Union troops lobbed 6- and
                                            12-pounder shells with a short, lighted fuse, at
                                            Confederate defenders; Confederates rolled the same type
                                            of grenade downhill into Union rifle pits.
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                        Carroll's diary entry for July 4,
                                            1863, the day that 
                                                Vicksburg
                                             surrendered to Union forces led by Ulysses
                                            S. Grant.Courtesy of Frank Carroll
                                    when wee be the undesputed possesers of 
                                        Vicksburg
                                     & I trust that Sutch Will happen Soon helth
                                    is beginning to decline a mong us I am still quite unwell43
                                Friday 3
                                This morning the fighting was Still going on up to o clock Pm
                                    then Pemberton sent out a flag of truce Requesting Gen Grant to
                                    come on some conditional terms of Surrender for him but the Gen
                                    Refused any other than a complete surrender44 So at 3 o clock PM the fireing commenced a gain
                                    then it was Stoped & all is now calm & I am
                                    mending Slowley
                                Saturday 4
                                This is the Birth day of our contrys liberty & wee are
                                    having a greate cellebration at 9 o clock AM 
                                        Vicksburg
                                     Was surrenderd into our hands With all 
                                        43In his report written from 
                                                Vicksburg
                                             on July 5, Gen. Hovey wrote of his troops:
                                            "For more than forty days they were under
                                            constant fire, casualties happening daily in the midst
                                            of their camps; men were killed and wounded in their
                                            beds, at the table, in the rifle-pits, and yet, during
                                            all this long period, there was no murmur, no complaint.
                                            They were veterans and determined to succeed."
                                            Report of Brig. Gen. Alvin P. Hovey, July 5, 1863, at
                                            http://www.civilwarhome.com/hoveyvicksburgor.htm.
                                        44Pemberton's condition
                                            was parole for his troops. Grant, as Carroll noted,
                                            initially refused but after consultation with his
                                            officers, offered the parole to Pemberton.
                                    
                                    the Public property there in
                                    Together With 38:000 prisners Sick wonded & all in
                                    cluded & it is the understanding With General Grant
                                    & Pemberton that they are to be parold in the Space of a
                                    few days45 Whoraw for the 4 of July after a
                                    37 days Seage I am Still un Well
                                Sunday 5
                                No Wrest for the Weaked last night wee Was orderd to be redy to
                                    march bye 5 o clock this morning in the direction of Jackson So
                                    at 5 wee ware redy & toock up our line of march but
                                    mitley a gainst our Will as wee Was tierd & worn out
                                    with the ferteage of the Seage but 3 o clock found us 8 miles
                                    from camp nere Black River Whare wee encamped for the night I
                                    am Still unwell46
                                Monday 6
                                This morning no orders came to march So wee remaind in camp
                                    untill 5 o clock pm dewering this time the Boys was buisiley
                                    engaged in picking Blackberys & in procuring Some fresh
                                    meat & my Self Barber had a fine dinner of Blackberys
                                    & Green corn then at 5 wee was orderd forword to
                                        Black
                                        River 2 miles Whare wee went in to camp for the
                                    night I am still porley
                                Tuesday 7
                                This morning at 5 Wee toock up our line of march & at 8 o
                                    clock at night reached Boltons Station 12 miles from Black Ri[ver]
                                    & then lay under a hevy Rain nerly all night But I will
                                    not forget to State that at 4 o clock pm wee past 
                                        champion Hill
                                     a place that will ever be remembrd bye the
                                    Survivers of the old 24 I am Still un Well
                                Wednesday 8
                                This morning wee moved our camp a half mile & here
                                    Remaind untill 6 o clock pm then our corps each 3 in No toock
                                    different Roads & moved on 
                                        45On the afternoon of the 4th,
                                            Grant sent a telegram to his command: "The
                                            enemy surrendered this morning. The only term allowed is
                                            their parole as prisoners of war. This I regard as a
                                            great advantage to us at this moment. It saves,
                                            probably, several days in the capture, and leaves troops
                                            and transports ready for immediate service."
                                                Personal Memoirs of U.S. Grant,
                                            297.
                                        46Hovey's report notes
                                            that "on the 5th, without time for a glimpse at
                                            the prize, my division was ordered ... to pursue the
                                            treating forces of General Johnston." Report of
                                            Brig. Gen. Hovey, July 5, 1863. Johnston, on his way to 
                                                Vicksburg
                                             when he heard of the city's
                                            surrender, ordered his forces to fall back to Jackson.
                                            To prevent the city from being restored as a
                                            communications and supply center, Union forces under
                                            Gen. William T. Sherman quickly moved to retake
                                            it.
                                    
                                    towards Clinton whare wee
                                    expected to meat Some opposition our corps marched a bout 4
                                    miles & then halted a bout 9 o clock for the night I am
                                    a bout Worn out
                                Thursday 9
                                This morning a bout 7 o clock wee left camp & marched to 
                                        Clinton
                                     a bout 4 miles & a bout 12 o clock Wee Went
                                    in to camp till further orders last night there was Some
                                    Skermishing With our advance guards & the Rebals pickets
                                    but the Rebals had to fly with some loss but no orders came for
                                    marching & Wee remaind at 
                                        Clinton
                                     till the next morning I am now Worn out &
                                    my [s]rapps has to be [h?oned]
                                Friday 10
                                This morning wee left 
                                        Trinton
                                     & marched 6 miles & haulted a bout
                                    knoon 4 miles from 
                                        Jackson
                                     Whare Wee remaind untill the next morning Some
                                    firing of cannon is going on in front nere 
                                        Jackson
                                     with our advance troops I am Still in pore
                                    helth
                                Saturday 11
                                This morning our Regiment Was orderd out to Scour the contry on
                                    the Right of our line to dare the way for our division to
                                    advance & take persition on the line so a bout 3 o clock
                                    pm on our Way Back to camp Wee met our division advansing So wee
                                    Skerimished & sheld our way With the Rebals a bout 1 to
                                    [ ] & then toock our place on the line at dark &
                                    I stood picket all night in my feble helth
                                Sunday 12
                                This morning Earley hevy cannonading & skirmishing be gan
                                    & at 10 o clock wee had the Rebals drove in considerbley
                                    & had advansed our lines near a 1 mile & toock
                                    persition in Veue of the Rebals Works & between 10
                                    & 12 General Lowmon maid an attemped to charge a part of
                                    the Rebal Works with his division & had to fall Back
                                    with considerble loss47 I am still
                                    unwell
                                
                                    47Sherman had not yet ordered a direct
                                        assault against Johnston's defenses when Gen. Jacob
                                        Lauman ordered his forces to charge the Confederate line. He
                                        lost 400 men and was forced to retreat; Sherman relieved
                                        Lauman of his command after Jackson was captured.
                                
                                
                                Monday 13
                                Earley this morning our Reg Was orderd forward from the Reserve
                                    on to the line to Relieve the 46 Ind & our company was
                                    sent forward as Skermishers & Co B to supprt us so wee
                                    exchanged Shotts freeley With the Rebals & Roon Some
                                    clost Rebbs but none of us Was hurt except 1 & him Very
                                    Slitley but the Reg laying behind us lost 1 kild & 4
                                    Wonded slitley I am still quite febal
                                Tuesday 14
                                This morning wee are activeley Engaged in Building Brest Works
                                    & preparing for a Regular Seage or any case of imergency
                                    wee have our lines established & The Skermishing
                                    & cannonading is activley going on in the Evnin Wee had
                                    an armistes from 1 to 3 to take care of the dead &
                                    Wonded helth is good generaley I am mending
                                Wednesday 15
                                Last night our artillery kep the Rebals Very Well interested all
                                    night & this morning hevy firing commenced With the
                                    Skermishing partys & Was continued pretty mutch all day
                                    & late in the evning Wee Received a good Shelling from
                                    the rebal Batterys but having completed our Brest Works they
                                    done us no harm my helth is some better
                                Thursday 16
                                Last night the Rebals appeard to be up & stiring all
                                    night Their Band Was playing & Volleys of musketry ware
                                    fierd at Short intervills nerley all night & to there
                                    has bin hevy firing on some part of the line the most of the
                                    time & the Rebal Sharp Shooters has fierd briskley in
                                    front of us all day I am still porley
                                Friday 17
                                This morning found us still behind our Brest Works but to our
                                    Surprise the Rebals was gone they had taken the advantage of the
                                    night & taken leave of the place48
                                    after firing the Best part of the Town Several straglers came in
                                    to 
                                        48Johnston decided not to repeat
                                            the ordeal of besieged 
                                                Vicksburg
                                             and ordered his defenders - under the cover
                                            of darkness and the sounds of music and rifle fire - to
                                            retreat. By midnight, Confederate troops were marching
                                            out of 
                                                Jackson
                                            , and by morning they were four miles away
                                            from the city.
                                    
                                    our lines this morning
                                    & declars themselvs tierd of fighting & are
                                    willing to take the oath
                                Saturday 18
                                To day our men has nerley finished the Town & has laid in
                                    a Supply of Shugar Molasses & Soon for a few days
                                    & Wee have details out taring up the different Rail
                                    Roads that connect at this place49 &
                                    Will probbaley leave in a few days as Wee Will not Garrison the
                                    place I am still porley
                                Sunday 19
                                Sonday To day Wee are Still in camp & the Report is that
                                    Banks has intercepted old Johnstons Retreat & has cut
                                    him off from 
                                        Mobeal
                                     the point he Was aiming at & if so he will
                                    probabiley loose nerley his entire Army of 30:00050 I am quite Sick to day
                                Monday 2051
                                To day we still lay in camp at 
                                        Jackson
                                     in the evening our advance that followed Johnson
                                    came back & reported haveing had a skirmish with his
                                    rear some prisoners captured
                                Tuesday 21
                                Started out on the march early The roads dusty and marching
                                    disagreeable reached 
                                        Raymond
                                     about 4 PM haveing marched 15 miles
                                Wednesday 22
                                Off early and marched to Black River a hard rain late in
                                    the evening Two men killed on the road with lightning
                                
                                    49Fulfer records that this time the
                                        Union troops "tore up the track for ten miles in
                                        each direction." Fulfer, History of
                                            the Trials and Hardships, 83.
                                    50By July 18, Johnston's
                                        forces were encamped near 
                                            Morton
                                        , 
                                            Mississippi
                                        , about 40 miles east of 
                                            Jackson
                                        . Banks and Grant wanted to launch a campaign
                                        against 
                                            Mobile
                                        , but Banks was instead ordered to begin
                                        planning a full-scale attempt to retake 
                                            Texas
                                        .
                                    51Entries for next several days are in
                                        handwritings other than Carroll's.
                                
                                
                                Thursday 23
                                left camp early and marche to 
                                        Vicksburg
                                     reaching there about noon haveing marched 15 miles
                                    went into camp on the river bank below Town
                                Friday 24
                                Nothing of importance going on to day all the men rather tired
                                    after the hard marching
                                Saturday 25
                                Fixing up our camp to day have not got our tents yet got our new
                                    Jackets To day they were issued to us this evening
                                Sunday 26
                                the day has been very stormy this morning at 9 o clock we had
                                    company Inspection By Lt Samuel Smith52 late
                                    In the evening It Blew & rained very hard But did not
                                    continue long No news from the army of much Import
                                Monday 27
                                Nothing of Importance has transpired to day the weather has been
                                    very warm to day two men from our Co got a furlough for (20)
                                    days & started for Home in the evening nothing more to
                                    record to night Wm HC
                                Tuesday 28
                                Weather warm & sultry this morning we moved our Camp
                                    farther down the river only changed directions health generally
                                    good In the Regiment I am not yet much better think I am slowly
                                    mending nothing farther to day WHC
                                Wednesday 2953
                                To day Still in camp & Nothing of intrest going on untill
                                    evening then wee all had a chance to draw New clothing Which Was
                                    badley kneeded54 to some 
                                        52Lt. Samuel M. Smith, Co. D, 24th
                                            Indiana.
                                        53Carroll's handwriting
                                            resumes with this entry.
                                        54Fulfer records that the 24th
                                            "drew new zouave uniforms ... sent to us from 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            ." Fulfer, History of
                                                the Trials and Hardships, 84. Civil War Zouave
                                            uniforms varied but all were brightly colored and
                                            modeled after uniforms worn by French colonial soldiers.
                                            An example of an original zouave uniform can be seen at
                                            http://americanhistory.si.edu/collections/
                                            object.cfm?key=35&objkey=95.
                                    
                                    extent the Wethr Very Warm I
                                    am Still quite unwell John Mongomory died this morning
                                Thursday 30
                                Still in camp & Nothing Special going on the Wether Warm
                                    With occasion- al Showers & Some Wind the helth is
                                    generaley tolerble good 1 death in our Reg Since Wee came here
                                    to this camp I am Still porley
                                Friday 31
                                This is the last day of July 1863 & Wee are Still in camp
                                    & has our quarters nicely fixed up but Madam Rumer Ses
                                    that Wee are under marching orders for Natchee & Will
                                    Brobably Start in a few days I am still porley
                                Saturday, August 1
                                Saturday August the - 1 1863 Still in camp but makeing
                                    preperations to leave for 
                                        Natchee
                                     the 2 Brigade leaves on Boats to morrow the days is
                                    quite Warm but the mornings & Evnings quit cool
                                    & pleasant I am Still porley
                                Sunday 2
                                Still at 
                                        Vicksburg
                                     the Wether Warm With occasional Showers Co drill
                                    from half past 8 till 10 dress perade at soonset each day no
                                    mail for Several days I am Still unfit for deuty
                                Monday 3
                                To day evry thing is going on a bout as usual the Wether Very
                                    Warm
                                Tuesday 455
                                The weather is very warm & this morning wee got marching
                                    orders for 
                                        Natchez
                                    
                                    
                                        Miss
                                     No news from the army worth relating I am still
                                    unwell
                                
                                    55Entries through August 8 are in a
                                        different hand.
                                
                                
                                Wednesday 5
                                This morning we started for 
                                        Natchez
                                     & arrived at that place near 5 o clock the
                                    same day we then marched through Town some 2 miles out In the
                                    Country the weather very warm
                                Thursday 6
                                To day the boys have been very busy In hoisting their tents wood
                                    & water are Both very Scarce no news from any Source
                                    worth mentioning I am still convalescent
                                Friday 7
                                Times are dull in camp to day very warm & no news
                                    & I am very unwell this evening the 29 Wisconsin went
                                    out on a scout in the country
                                Saturday 8
                                No news of Importance to day the weather is somewhat cooler
                                    & I hope it may continue to be so for some time I am
                                    still unwell &56 not worth a shit
                                    for nothing or Nobody Wm H Carroll
                                Sunday 957
                                Still in camp the Wether Warm but a fine Breeze Stirring evry
                                    thing plenty and tolerble cheap in the eating line our camp is a
                                    bout 1 mile from the River & 2 miles
                                    from Town & This maks Water Very unhandy I am Still
                                    unwell
                                Monday 10
                                This morning Still finds us in camp Nere 
                                        Natches
                                     but Some of us mooveing down to 
                                        Port Hudson
                                     Which is bye nomeans good Noose to the Boys for
                                    they are all Very ancious to Stay here till Wee Wrest but orders
                                    has come & Wee must pack up I am still porley
                                
                                    56The rest of the entry has been
                                        penciled over at a later date.
                                    57Carroll's hand resumes in
                                        this entry.
                                
                                
                                Tuesday 11
                                This morning found us on the Bank of the River
                                    Wee marched down last night & put the most of our bagage
                                    on board but none of the men except Some of the Sick but they
                                    Ware all on board Earley & Soon Set found us at port
                                    hudson Whare Wee Remaing till Nexte Eve 3 o clock I am Some
                                    Better
                                Wednesday 12
                                This morning found us Still all a live & glad of it
                                    & all Well pleased to learn that Wee had orders to move
                                    on down to 
                                        Carrolton
                                     Nere 
                                        Neworleans
                                     So Wee left 
                                        port Hudson
                                     at 3 o clock & reached this place Which is
                                    7 miles from the main city & is colled 
                                        Carrolton
                                     I am Still on the mend58
                                Thursday 13
                                This morning at daylight Wee found our Selvs at 
                                        Carlton
                                    
                                    
                                        Lou
                                     just 7 miles a bove 
                                        Neworleans
                                     & to the great Satesfation of the Boys We
                                    found Lagerbeer plenty & onley 5 cents a glass &
                                    eatibles of all Kinds cheape & plenty late in the evn
                                    Wee Went into camp I am Still on the mend
                                Friday 14
                                This morning finds us Still in camp a bout 1 mile from 
                                        Carlton
                                     & a bout 1 half mile from the River
                                    but Wee have a butiful camp & free access to the Town
                                    Some of our officers & Boys has just Returned from the
                                    city 1 of our Boys Was Shot dead this eve bye a Negro59 I am a bout well No mail
                                Saturday 15
                                This morning found us Still in our New camp I Was up Town to day
                                    & had a fine time eating ice creem & drinking
                                    Lagger & Sodywater the man kild yesterday Was a Recruit
                                    bye the Name of Cavinaw he came to us at 
                                        Helena
                                    
                                    
                                        58The regiment spent the rest of
                                            the year in marches, skirmishes, and brief battles
                                            throughout southern 
                                                Louisiana
                                            . Towns and camps mentioned by Carroll and
                                            Fulfer include 
                                                Carrollton
                                            , 
                                                Brasier City
                                            , 
                                                Algiers
                                            , 
                                                Berwick
                                            , 
                                                New Iberia
                                            , 
                                                Vermillion
                                                  Bayou
                                            , and 
                                                Camp Fairview
                                            . Fulfer, History of the Trials
                                                and Hardships, chap. 12.
                                        59Fulfer writes that "one
                                            of the boys in our regiment, while trying to catch a
                                            chicken, was shot and instantly killed by a negro
                                            safeguard. The boys planned to take him out of jail that
                                            night and lynch him, but he was slipped out."
                                            Ibid., 86.
                                    
                                    & Belonged to Co G he
                                    Was a fine Boy & Well disposed he Was Beried in the
                                    honers of Ware this Evning No mail
                                Sunday 16
                                Sonday the 16 To day finds us in fine helth & good
                                    Sperits 30 of our Boys Went to the city this morning on the 8 o
                                    clock train & Some Went on their own luck tomorrow I am
                                    to have a pass & Will be off earley Should nothing occer
                                    to prevent it I Went up Town intending to go to church but did
                                    not go this eve I am quite unwell No mail
                                Monday 17
                                This morning found us Still in camp a bove 
                                        Carlton
                                     but in the Evning orders came for us to move down
                                    closter to the city & Whare Wee Would be handier to
                                    Water So wee moved down Below 
                                        Carlton
                                     & about 2 1/2 & Below our old camp
                                    I am Still unwell No mail
                                Tuesday 18
                                Well this morning finds us in our new camp Below 
                                        Carlton
                                     but not fulley Set up yet to day Wee pitched What
                                    tents Wee had but the Wether is Very Blustory & Rainey
                                    Which makes it Very unpleasant our camp is a Very nice one
                                    & handy to the River So I think Wee Will
                                    be all right in a few days Still Sick No mail
                                Wednesday 19
                                This day still found us in our New camp & to day Wee have
                                    bin trying to fix up as comfortable as possible but Wee have
                                    nothing to make beads of & consiquintly Wee have to pay
                                    4 cents a foot for lomber or lye on the ground it is Still
                                    Raining & my helth is Worse No mail
                                Thursday 20
                                Today finds us Still in camp & the Wether Still Weet but
                                    the Boys Seams to engoy them Selvs hugeley going to the city I
                                    have not yet had a oppertunity of Seeing the city on the account
                                    of my pore helth the Wether is Still damp & Wet
                                    & my helth quite pore No mail
                                Friday 21
                                To day Still found us in camp & Wee Was expecting to be
                                    revewed bye General Banks to day but Was disapointed the Wether
                                    is more fare to day  but
                                    quite plesent for the climate at this time of the year helth is
                                    tolerble good With the most of us This morning I had to attend
                                    Sick call No mail
                                Saturday 22
                                To day finds us Sill in camp General Revew this morning at 8 am
                                    & Some talk of us marching Soon Some of our furlowed
                                    Boys has Returned nothing more of special intrest occerd to day
                                    helth is Still Very good no mail Since Wee arrived at this place
                                    my helth is Still Very pore
                                Sunday 23
                                To day found us Still in camp the Boys all liveley &
                                    engoying them Selvs fine the Wether is moderatley Warm With
                                    occasional Showers Still Some talk of us leaving but no definate
                                    time set no mail yet my helth Still pore
                                Monday 24
                                To day Still found us all Write & as I felt Some better
                                    than usual this morning I toock the 8 o clock train &
                                    Went to the city had a fine time in Vewing the city then
                                    Returned to camp a gain on the 4 o clock train No mail yet my
                                    helth Some better
                                Tuesday 25
                                To day finds us Still in camp Louis the wether is Still fine
                                    & not Very Warm Wee have but little deuty to do
                                    & the Boys has a fine time visiting the city wee have
                                    General Revew evry other day No mail yet I am Still un Well
                                Wednesday 26
                                Still in camp Evry thing going on a bout as usual the most of our
                                    furlowed Boys has Returned the Weather Still fine &
                                    Buisness getting to be active & interesting to day Wee
                                    received a fine mail I Recived 4 letters maid a Visit to the
                                    City I am Still unwell
                                Thursday 27
                                Still in camp evry thing going on fine the Wether Still fine
                                    & not Very warm Buisiness active helth is Still tolerble
                                    good a mong our troops General inspection this afterknoon my
                                    helth is Worse this afterknoon
                                
                                Friday 28
                                To day finds us Still in Camp Louis & all going on fine
                                    there Was a General Revew of our Army Corps to day from 8 till
                                    12 Gen Banks & Staf Was present & the Gen
                                    complemented us Very hiley on our good apperance & good
                                    performance on the field I am Still porley
                                Saturday 29
                                To day Still found us in our old camp & the Boys are
                                    Still engoying them Selvs hugeley the wether is Still fine
                                    & pleasant & buisness active & Still on
                                    the loock up there is hardley any time in the day but What the
                                    cars or boats can be herd on the go I am Still unwell
                                Sunday 30
                                This is the Sabbath day but appears Very mutch unlike our
                                    Sabbaths use to at home no preeching in camp & after
                                    inspection the Boys Some went to the city Some to the Lake but I
                                    am very porley to day & had to remain in camp I had 1
                                    letter Written
                                Monday 31
                                To day still found us in Camp Louis the wether fine helth
                                    tolerable good & evry thing going on a bout as usual
                                    Some talk of us marching Soon I am Still Very unwell No mail
                                    today
                                Tuesday, September 1
                                To day Still found us in camp With no perticular indications of
                                    moveing but Still Some talk of it The Wether is Still fine
                                    & plesent drill occasionley I am Still not fit for
                                    dewty
                                Wednesday 2
                                Sill in camp & all going on Right Still Some talk of us
                                    moveing Some talk of the arrival of Gen Grant to this place to
                                    Visit our Army corps the wethr Still fine i am Still porley
                                
                                Thursday 3
                                Still in camp the wether fine Gen Grant has arrived &
                                    Will Revew our corps To morrow morning at 8 o clock Still Some
                                    talk of us leaving Soone helth is not quite so good I am Still
                                    on the Sick list (Some mail to day)
                                Friday 4
                                Still in camp & all going on Well this morning at 8 o
                                    clock our corps Was cald together & Revewed bye Gen
                                    Grant who has just arrived from 
                                        Vicksburg
                                     Shortley after the Revew Gen Grant was thrown from
                                    his horse & badley hurt I am slitley on the mend
                                Saturday 5
                                This morning Still found us in camp but under marching orders a
                                    part of our corps is allredy on the move but as yet wee onley
                                    have preparitory orders & has not yet received orders to
                                    march & as yet wee have but little ide Whare wee are
                                    going I am still Mending
                                Sunday 6
                                Still in camp Louis Nere 
                                        Carlton
                                    
                                    
                                        La
                                     the Wether Still fine & helth tolerble good
                                    Still Some talk of leaving but no time set to go my helth has
                                    Some what improved No mail to day
                                Monday 7
                                Still in camp but nothing Special going on the Wether is Still
                                    fine with a pleasant breeze helth is Still good & to
                                    Some extent improveing my helth is Still improveing no mail to
                                    day
                                Tuesday 8
                                Still at home & boarding at the Same place but Board
                                    rather Rough the Wether Still fine a grand display on dress
                                    perade by the 11 Ind Reg this afterknoon at 5 o clock in the
                                    city a large crowd present No mail
                                Wednesday 9
                                Still in camp Some little excercise in drill & dress
                                    perade the Wether Still fine & Still no orders to march
                                    yet & the talk has a bout plaid out & pay day is
                                    the talk now my helth is Still improveing no mail
                                
                                Thursday 10
                                Still in camp the Wether fine I am a gain able for deuty
                                    & is to day on poliese guard no more talk of marching it
                                    is now nere 5 o clock pm & Supper is just Redy Some mail
                                    to day I received 1 letter from home my helth is Still
                                    improving
                                Friday 11
                                To day Still found us in camp & all going on well but
                                    there is Still Some talk of moveing the Wether is Still fine
                                    & helth tolerble good my helth is Still poar but Some
                                    better Wee Still have drills Twist a day Some little mail to
                                    day
                                Saturday 12
                                This morning Still found us in camp & all quiate but bye
                                    knoon Wee had orders to march & night found us all gone
                                    but a detail of 10 men who was lefte back to take care of the
                                    bagag & a few Sick that could not go no mail to day
                                Sunday 13
                                This morning Still found the detail at our old camp Still no Werd
                                    of our Bagage Wee expected to follow the Regiment this morning
                                    who has gone on the cars to 
                                        Brasier city
                                     8 mles from this city a bout 12 Wee got our Bagage
                                    Stoard a way & is now waiting for the details out of
                                    other Regt to git redy to follow up the division my helth is
                                    still pore
                                Monday 14
                                This morning Still finds us at our old camp Waiting for orders
                                    & transportation my helth is Still pore orders come in
                                    the Evening for us to all meat together & be redy to
                                    Start at 5 but wee Soon got orders to return to our camps as wee
                                    would Remain till 5 the next morning my helth is Still pore
                                Tuesday 15
                                This morning our detail Was up Earley & at 6 oclock to
                                    the train for the city of 
                                        Neworleans
                                     Wee landed there at 7 crost the River
                                    to 
                                        Algers
                                     & at 11 o clock lefte that place on the
                                    cars for 
                                        Brasier city
                                     at Whith place Wee arrived at a bout 4 o clock pm
                                    Whare wee found our Regiments all Safe in camp my helth is Still
                                    bad
                                
                                Sept the 15th60 This morning at 5 o clock our
                                    details from the different Regiments lefte our old camp to
                                    follow our Regiments At 7 o clock Wee toock the cars at Green
                                    Vill Station for 
                                        Neworleans
                                     I Eat 1 crabb to day61
                                Wednesday 16
                                This morning found us Still at 
                                        Brasier city
                                     Whith is Situated on Berwich bay at the termination
                                    of the R R Whitch is 18 miles from 
                                        Neworleans
                                     this bay is nere the Sise of the Miss
                                        Riv & is Navagable for any kind of
                                    Steemers the Water is Salty & a bounds with oister sea
                                    crabbs & all kinds of fish Still pore helth
                                Thursday 17
                                To day found us Still at 
                                        Brachcar city
                                     & other troops ar arriving from 
                                        Neworleans
                                     on evry train & are crossing the Bay &
                                    it is evident that there is an experdition of foot for 
                                        Texas
                                     the Boys has fine fun catching crabbs my helth is
                                    Still poar
                                Friday 18
                                Still at 
                                        Brachar city
                                     last night & this morning is Very cool
                                    General inspection in our division This morning & it is
                                    likeley that our forces Will leave here Soon the troops ar Still
                                    crossing over to the opposite Side of the bay &
                                    Will probabiley move forward Soon my helth is Still pore
                                Saturday 19
                                To day wee are Still in camp at 
                                        Brashaear city
                                     & there is Some probability of us Staying
                                    here a while as our General has been assigned the command of
                                    this poast I had a fine mess of fish to day for dinner that I
                                    caught myself out of Berwick Bay my helth is Some
                                    better
                                Sunday 20
                                Still in camp & this butiful Sabbath morning Still finds
                                    our Regiment in tolerble good helth the nights are Still quite
                                    cool So mutch that Wee have 
                                        60This paragraph is written, in
                                            Carroll's handwriting, on the inside of the
                                            front flyleaf of the diary.
                                        61This line is written just above
                                            "Wednesday 16" printed in the
                                            diary.
                                    
                                    Sufferd considerble for the
                                    Want of blanketts to cover withe my helth is Still Sloley
                                    improveing
                                Monday 21
                                To day Still found us in camp at 
                                        Brashaear city
                                     & other troops is Still crossing the
                                        Bay
                                    but as yet wee have no orders to cross over the Wether is Still
                                    cool & pleasant but Water & groob is Scarce I am
                                    Still mending
                                Tuesday 22
                                Still in camp the Wether fine & evry day the cars is
                                    Still Bringing more troops & Supplys from 
                                        Neworleans
                                     forage & market Stough is Very Scarce at
                                    this point this evning Brig General MacGinnace takes command of
                                    this post my helth is Still gaining
                                Wednesday 23
                                To day wee are Still in camp the wether Still fine &
                                    Still large preperations is being maid for a General move on the
                                    Rebals at Some other point supposed to be in 
                                        Texas
                                     my helth Still improveing
                                Thursday 24
                                Still at 
                                        Brasher city
                                     the Wether Still fine & helth Still
                                    tolerble good & Still the troops is crossing the
                                        Bay
                                    & preparing to march my helth is Still gaining a
                                    little
                                Friday 25
                                Still in camp With Some prospect of marching Soon but no pay
                                    master has come yet & wee would all be glad to have our
                                    Regular Green Backs before leaveing here my helth Still
                                    gaining
                                Saturday 26
                                Still in camp the wether Still fine with Some little Sign of Rain
                                    & Still the cars & Boats are buisiley engaged in
                                    transporting & crossing Supply for our intended
                                    Experdition in to 
                                        Texas
                                     helth is generaley good I am Some better
                                
                                Sunday 27
                                Still in camp & the Wether Still fine & evry
                                    thing activerley engaged in preparing for our Experdition orders
                                    came for us to be Redy to march at 12 to day but wee did not
                                    march my helth Still pore
                                Monday 28
                                Still in camp General Revew of our division this morning at 8
                                    then at 12 Wee Went on Board of Boats & crossed over the
                                        Bay
                                    then Went in to camp till further orders hevy Raining began just
                                    before night I am Still porley
                                Tuesday 29
                                This morning found us Still in our New Camp but nerley drownded
                                    out as it Raind all night & Wee was porley fixt for
                                    Shelter having nothing but our oil cloth for Shelter &
                                    it is Still Raining & bidds fare for a wet Spell Wee
                                    have orders to march tomorrow morning I am still porley
                                Wednesday 30
                                Still in camp in 
                                        Burwic City
                                     but Wee was to have marched this morning but owing
                                    to its still being Very Rainey Wee did not march helth is Still
                                    tolerble good but my helth is gitting Worse a gain
                                Thursday, October 1
                                Thursday Oct the 1 Wee are Still in camp & the rain has
                                    Some what a baited but fortunatley it has proved to be a
                                    considerble blessing for us for being detain here a few days the
                                    pay master has arrived & has to day Replenished our dry
                                    purses With 2 more months pay Whitch Wee greatley kneeded my
                                    helth to day is Very pore
                                Friday 2
                                This morning Still finds in camp owing to the mud & Water
                                    in the Roads but the Wether is fare & nice & Wee
                                    will probabiley march to morrow or next day the Wether is now
                                    fare & loocks as thoe it Would be for Some time my helth
                                    is Still pore
                                
                                Saturday 3
                                This morning Wee toock up our line of march at 8 o clock
                                    & found the Roads fare better than wee expected at a
                                    bout 11 o clock Wee past through a little Town cald 
                                        Pattersonville
                                     & after a march of Some 12 miles went in to
                                    camp for the night my helth Still pore
                                Sunday 4
                                This morning Wee a gain Resumed our march at 6 o clock to day wee
                                    pas through Some fine contry & the Roads Was fine a bout
                                    9 o clock we past through another little Town cald 
                                        Santyville
                                     then a bout 12 Wee came to 
                                        frankling
                                     & Went into camp I am Still porley
                                Monday 5
                                This morning Wee lefte the Town of 
                                        Frankling
                                     & toock up our line of march at 8 o clock
                                    & wee marched a bout 12 miles through a Very fine Scape
                                    of contry thickley Settled a bout 4 o clock Wee Went in to camp
                                    for the night I am Still porley & the march goes Very
                                    hard with me
                                Tuesday 6
                                This morning Wee lefte camp & toock up our line of march
                                    at 6 o clock to day wee past over mostley prairie contry Whitch
                                    was Very butiful but not So thickley Settled as that of
                                    yesterday travail Wee marched 10 or 12 miles & went in
                                    to camp as 12 [p]m 3 miles from New Town & will
                                    probabiley Stay here Some days I am Still porley
                                Wednesday 7
                                This morning Still found us in our New camp Nere 
                                        New Ibera
                                     & it is thought that Wee Will Remain here
                                    for Several days in order to git new Supplys the Wether is fine
                                    & the contry Butiful With plenty of forage of all Kinds
                                    our camp is in a butiful prary With no timber nere I am Some
                                    better but Still porley
                                Thursday 8
                                Still in camp & likley to remain for Several days yet
                                    Waiting for New Supplys the wether is Still fine & helth
                                    good Except some few cases of the chills other divisions of our
                                    corps are reaching us from the City fat cattle Sheepe &
                                    poltry is plenty I am Still mending
                                
                                Friday 9
                                To day Still finds us in camp & Wee have had another
                                    Rashen of drill to day last night Was very cool & this
                                    morning Wee found plenty of frost to ingure sweet potatoes
                                    whitch grows in a bundance in this contry Wee have received Some
                                    little mail here but I have received none yet I am Still
                                    mending
                                Saturday 10
                                This morning Wee got orders to march at 7 o clock So bye 8 Wee
                                    Was under Way & Wee marched 25 mil through butiful
                                    contry past one little Town caled 
                                        New Ibera
                                     the march Was long on the account of Water but a
                                    bout dusk Wee reached 
                                        Vermilion Bay
                                     whare Wee Went in to camp my helth is Still
                                    improveing
                                Sunday 11
                                To day Wee lay in camp on the 
                                        Vermilion Bay
                                     & the Boys being entirley out of Rashens
                                    for 2 or 3 days Went for the fat hoggs & chickens
                                    & evry good thing that the contry could afford the
                                    Wether is fine & pleasant but the Roads Rather dusty for
                                    marcing Some mail to day I am Well
                                Monday 12
                                This morning Still found us in camp on 
                                        Vermilion Bay
                                     & it is brobabil that Wee Will remain here
                                    for Some days the Wether is fine & helth Very good a
                                    mong our troops foragin all Stoped & Rashens Rather
                                    Short Some indications of Rain to night I am in tolerble
                                    helth
                                Tuesday 13
                                Still in camp a hevy Rain last night Brigade this morning
                                    commanded bye our New Brig General R A Cameron then in the
                                    evning Wee moved camp a Short distance on a line with the Wrest
                                    of the Brigade the Wether fare & plesant my helth is
                                    tolerble
                                Wednesday 14
                                This morning found us Still in our New camp the wether Still fine
                                    to day other Regiments are changing therr camps &
                                    takeing New persitions whitch indicats that wee will Remain here
                                    for Some time yet Brigaid drill in the afterknoon I am well
                                
                                
                                    William H. Carroll in later life. Carroll
                                        returned to farming, married, raised two children, and died
                                        in 1891. Courtesy of Frank Carroll
                                
                                Thursday 15
                                This morning found us Still in camp but considerble canonading
                                    could be herd in front & wee felt Shure that wee would
                                    have to march Soon So Shure enough wee lefte camp at 3 pm
                                    & marched till nere 12 at night makein about 16 miles
                                    this brought us on the disputed ground whare wee Went in to camp
                                    for the Remainder of the night
                                Friday 16
                                This morning found us all a live but Very Soar and Stuped from
                                    our hard march dewering the night but after Breckfast Wee
                                    changed persition & formed in line of battle &
                                    was arrainging our camps when wee was tisturbed bye a few Rebal
                                    cavaldry who maid a raid on Some of our pickets & a
                                    forage party our loss was 2 kild 5 Won & 7 taken
                                    prisners I am well
                                
                                Saturday 17
                                This morning found us Still in our new camp Situated on the Scirt
                                    of a butiful prarie clost to a Scirt of timber through whitch a
                                    Small Streem Roons & from this Wee git our water the
                                    Enimy is just before us & occasional Skermishing occers
                                    on our picket line I am Well
                                Sunday 18
                                This Butiful Sabbath Morning Still found us in our New Camp Which
                                    is cold camp Farevew Still the Rebals is to be Seene in front of
                                    us in considerble force & Some Skermishing Still occers
                                    on our picket line the Rebals So fare as has been discoverd yet
                                    are all mounted I am still in tolerble helth
                                Monday 1962
                                Still in camp to day a Small force was Scent out to make a
                                    Reconoisance in front & they returned in the evning
                                    & Reported that Rebbs was Still tolerble plenty a bout 4
                                    miles in front & all appeard to be mounted I am Still in
                                    tolerble helth
                                Thursday, December 17
                                To day is fare but Rather coald Wee received our New collars this
                                    evening at 5 pm with the different Battles that Wee have been
                                    Engaged in enscribed there on witch is 7 in No namley Shilo
                                    Grand Prarie Port Gibson 10 mile Creak Champion Hill Vicksburg
                                    & Jackson63
                                Friday 18
                                To day Wee Received marching orders for 
                                        Brashier City
                                     & Will march tomorrow morning at 8 o clock
                                    the Wether is Still cold 
                                        New Iberia
                                     Dc 18 1863
                                
                                    62This is the last entry until the two
                                        in mid-December. Some of the following pages are blank, and
                                        some are missing. A few pages have penciled notes probably
                                        related to Carroll's farmwork after the war; one
                                        page contains a tally of the clothing that Carroll bought in
                                        1863.
                                    63The new regimental colors were
                                        presented to the troops by 
                                            Indiana
                                         Governor Oliver Morton. Fulfer, History of the Trials and Hardships, 95.
                                
                                
                                
                                        Grand Gulf
                                    
                                    
                                        Mississippy
                                    64 - Wednsday April the 29 This
                                    morning found us in Sight of 
                                        Grand Gulf
                                     at 8 o clock our Goon Boats 7 in No advanced on the
                                    Rebal Batterys & a heavvy firing Was continewed untill 1
                                    o clock pm then our Goon Boats drew off leaving The Rebal
                                    Batterys all Silanced but one consisting of 3 or 4 Goons the
                                    names of the Boats engaged ware as followers Commanded by
                                    Commodore Porter Benton Flag ship Carondalet Louisville
                                    Cincinnatti Tuscumbia Lafayette the casualtys on our Side if
                                    reports be correct is 10 kild & 34 Wonded the Goon Boat
                                    Tuscumbia was Badly damaged our forces consisting of 3 divisions
                                    has disembarked from the transports & has marched below
                                    the Batterys bye way of the levee & is now encamped on a
                                    large plantation intending to cross the River
                                    in the morning to attact the Rebal land forces it is now nere
                                    dark & our Boats is Running past The Rebal Batterys
                                    under a hevvy fier from their Goons in order to cross us over to
                                    them the Rebal loss is not yet known bye elev[en] o clock at
                                    night our Goon Boats & transports Ware all Safeley below
                                    the batterys With no perticular damage being done them no one
                                    was kild or wonded in passing after night allthoe a very hevy
                                    fiering was kep up on boath sids for the space of 2 hours our
                                    loss in passing Their batterys was 5 horces kild on one of the
                                    transports bye a Ball that past Through her lower deck dewring
                                    the days engagement between our Goon Boats & the Rebal
                                    Batterys our loss Was 12 kild & 38 wonded there being a
                                    Slite mistake in the first report Wee have at this time 5
                                    divisions here Reddy to cross over in the morning a bout 20000
                                    in No wee are all encamped for the night on a large plantation 5
                                    miles from the Rebal fort General Grant & Ajutant Gen
                                    Thomas is allsso With us
                                
                                    64The final entry is this account - in
                                        Carroll's hand and apparently written at the same
                                        time as the diary entries - of the battle at 
                                            Grand Gulf
                                        .
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
            
            
            
                REVIEWS
                A Fierce, Wild Joy The Civil War Letters of Colonel Edward
                        J. Wood, 48th Indiana Volunteer Infantry Regiment Edited by
                    Stephen E. Towne (
                        Knoxville
                    : University of Tennessee Press, 2007. Pp. xxviii, 296.
                    Illustrations, appendices, notes, index. $38.00.)
                A Fierce, Wild Joy presents the Civil War letters of Edward
                    Jesup Wood of 
                        Goshen
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    . Some ninety letters written by Wood to his wife Jane (now held by
                    the Indiana Historical Society) are presented in thirteen chronologically
                    arranged chapters; an additional three letters, two written by Wood and
                    published in 
                        Goshen
                     newspapers, and a third penned by Wood's Confederate
                    half-brother, appear in appendices. Editor Stephen E. Towne offers an
                    informative and perspicacious introduction providing biographical data and an
                    overview of the content and style of Wood's letters. He also provides
                    brief introductions to each chapter, a postscript on Wood's postwar
                    life, and numerous explanatory endnotes for the letters.
                Wood was born in 
                        Florida
                     in 1834, the son of a 
                        Connecticut
                     steamboat captain and a mother from a plantation family. After his
                    father's death in 1840, Wood was raised in 
                        New York
                     by relatives, schooled in 
                        Connecticut
                    , and graduated at age 18 from Dartmouth College as an engineer.
                    Arriving in 
                        Indiana
                     in 1853 to work on the construction of a railroad, he soon went
                    into law and politics, running for local office as a Republican. He married in
                    1859, and in May 1861 his first child was born. The following fall, Wood began
                    recruiting a company for the 48th Indiana Volunteer Infantry Regiment. He began
                    as a captain in charge of a company and over time became the commanding colonel
                    of the 48th. The letters cover the period from January 16, 1862, to February 27,
                    1865, during which Wood participated in such battles as Corinth and Champion
                    Hill, the siege of 
                        Vicksburg
                    , and Sherman's March to the Sea.
                While Wood's letters include a few intriguing combat narratives, 
                        INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, 105 (March 2009) C 2009, Trustees of
                            Indiana University.
                    
                    their major interest comes from their
                    accounts of other aspects of military life. Wood is especially thorough in his
                    descriptions of camp accommodations, the movement of men and their baggage, and
                    diet and the procurement of food. His training in law and engineering was put to
                    good use as he found himself, at various times, put in charge of road and bridge
                    construction, detailed to serve as a court-martial judge, and assigned to the
                    office of provost marshal. (His account of his actions as provost of 
                        Paducah
                     is especially informative.) Wood's letters also nicely
                    describe sundry other aspects of camp life, from picket duty to a fishing picnic
                    with other officers. Among their most unusual passages are those dealing with
                    Wood's efforts to gain information about his southern relatives and
                    find ways to communicate with them. A particularly poignant entry juxtaposes
                    Wood's hard hand-of-war values with his awareness of what his Dixie
                    loved ones are suffering at the hands of Union troops.
                Oddly enough, Wood, an abolitionist, writes little about the slavery issue, and
                    what little he has to say about blacks is sometimes insensitive. Concepts such
                    as order and duty seem more central than slavery to Wood's
                    understanding of the war and his role in it. It also seems odd that Wood, who
                    ran for office in 
                        Indiana
                     both before and after the war, has so little to say about Hoosier
                    politics. In fact, Wood does not appear to have closely identified with his
                    adopted state, and he talks of Hoosiers in the third person as if he were not
                    one of them. His wife left 
                        Indiana
                     to live in her native upstate 
                        New York
                     during the war, and neither of them had much good to say about 
                        Goshen
                     or Hoosierdom.
                Beyond war and politics, Wood's letters also provide some insights into
                    the values and domestic life of a northern, urban middle-class family. There are
                    numerous expressions of Christian fatalism, advice on child-rearing, and career
                    concerns. Also common are passages articulating the affections and the longings
                    for reunion of a man long separated from wife and daughter. Finally, a number of
                    passages deal with Wood's literary tastes and the titles of fictional
                    works that he was reading.
                THOMAS E. RODGERS teaches 
                        Indiana
                     and Civil-War era history at the University of Southern Indiana, 
                        Evansville
                    . He is the author of "Billy Yank and G.I. Joe: An
                    Exploratory Essay on the Sociopolitical Dimensions of Soldier
                    Motivation," The Journal of Military History, 69
                    (January 2005) and of articles on various aspects of Civil War 
                        Indiana
                    .
            
            
            
                A Little More Freedom African Americans Enter the Urban
                        Midwest, 1860-1930 By Jack S. Blocker (
                        Columbus
                    : Ohio State University Press, 2008. Pp. xvii, 330. Illustrations,
                    notes, appendices, index. Clothbound, $49.95; CD, $9.95.)
                Jack S. Blocker argues that most African Americans arriving in 
                        Illinois
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , and 
                        Ohio
                     during and after the Civil War settled in
                    "nonmetropolitan" areas but gradually left them for cities.
                    Northern migration, Blocker writes, reflected the "mental
                    maps" that black migrants carried with them - personal images that
                    reflected their interests. Their quality of life in the Midwest depended on
                    local economies, the attitudes and actions of whites, and the conditions within
                    each black community. While violence between 1885 and 1910 shaped migration
                    patterns, population decline in the region's towns was slow and
                    steady.
                This book focuses on four of the region's 364 towns containing at least
                    2,500 residents: 
                        Washington Court House
                     and 
                        Springfield
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    ; 
                        Springfield
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    ; and 
                        Muncie
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    . It is organized into three parts. The first deals with waves of
                    migration before 1890. Part two (1860-1910) examines conditions that migrants
                    found and how they coped with them. The last section explores (mostly after
                    1910) "the choices made by migrants before leaving the South as well as
                    those that brought them to some destinations rather than others in the Lower
                    Midwest" (p. 12).
                While providing a wealth of material and analysis - including twenty graphs and
                    thirty-five tables - and demonstrating wide reading in primary and secondary
                    sources, the author disappoints the reader. Information is difficult to digest,
                    partly because of the author's writing style. Unexplained statistical
                    jargon (for example, in the two tables on pp. 79-80) reinforces the impression
                    that the author is addressing a specialized audience. Language issues persist
                    throughout the volume. The writer never defines "metropolitan"
                    - the reader must assume that this is the federal census term introduced in 1910
                    - and uses such terms as rural, village, town, small city, and non-metropolitan
                    interchangeably. He calls these decades "the age of the
                    village" (p. 214), yet all of the places he describes had at least
                    2,500 residents, and hence by census terminology were urban.
                Factual and interpretive errors appear too frequently - for example, the
                    locations and dates of Ohio
                        River bridges (p. 23), the account of the election of blacks to
                    state legislatures (p. 90), and the analysis of black settlement patterns in 
                        Kentucky
                     and her three Northern neighbors (pp. 140, 150), which asserts that
                    blacks in the lower Midwest forsook rural neighborhoods for urban ones after
                    1890. In fact, from the early 1800s onward, the largest number of black
                    newcomers settled directly in the biggest
                    cities - 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and 
                        Louisville
                    .
                The author also incorrectly attributes the post-1900 declension in 
                        Evansville's
                     black population to the race riot of 1903. Violence influenced
                    settlement patterns in the Ohio Valley generally, but more
                    telling was the growth of Jim Crow policies - for example, the creation of
                    restrictive covenants in real estate transactions. Most settlements along both
                    sides of the Ohio,
                    moreover, experienced population decline or stagnation - white as well as black
                    - after 1890, reflecting limited local job opportunities and the appeal of
                    industrial employment to the north. 
                        Evansville
                    , 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and 
                        Louisville
                     were notable exceptions. Blocker incorrectly attributes
                    blacks' departure from the former city to its lack of prosperity, when
                    in fact 
                        Evansville
                     tripled in size between 1880 and 1920, and its economy thrived. He
                    also overlooks the relatively small size of 
                        Evansville's
                     black community, as compared with upriver 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Louisville
                    , where a critical mass supported black businesses and professions,
                    despite a history of violence against blacks.
                A Little More Freedom, in short, offers much information about
                    African American settlement in the lower Midwest prior to 1910. Whether the book
                    offers a new interpretation of this period remains to be seen.
                DARREL E. BIGHAM is emeritus professor of history and director of Historic
                    Southern Indiana at the University of Southern Indiana. His most recent book is
                        On Jordan's Banks: The Aftermath of Emancipation in
                            the Ohio River Valley (2006).
            
            
                
                    Meredith Nicholson A Writing Life By Ralph D.
                    Gray (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2007. Pp. 281. Illustrations.
                    $19.95.)
                In the early 1900s, Meredith Nicholson was a household name, not just in 
                        Indiana
                    , but in most homes of literate Americans. Acclaimed for his
                    best-selling romantic adventure novels, he was one of four central figures in 
                        Indiana's
                     golden age of literature, alongside James Whitcomb Riley, Booth
                    Tarkington, and George Ade. Now, a century later, Nicholson's name is
                    barely recognized - a fact that Ralph D. Gray has sought to remedy with his
                    biography, Meredith Nicholson: A Writing Life.
                Gray, professor emeritus of history at Indiana University-Purdue University
                    Indianapolis, is best known for his scholarship on the history of transportation
                    and the history of 
                        Indiana
                    , which has included brief
                    examinations of Nicholson. He also recently collected his favorite examples of
                    Nicholson's essays and articles in A Meredith Nicholson
                        Reader (2007). Here, however, in what is, surprisingly, the first full
                    biography of the author's life, Gray provides a meticulously
                    researched, richly detailed history of Nicholson's life as both author
                    and diplomat.
                Seven chapters chronicle the development of Nicholson from ninth-grade dropout
                    into newspaper and magazine journalist, poet, state historian, novelist,
                    essayist, and (in one unsuccessful attempt) playwright. While romantic adventure
                    novels dominated Nicholson's tremendous output of 29 books, Gray
                    asserts in the introduction that "his finest writing, and his most
                    substantial and enduring contributions to American letters, can be found in his
                    essays and articles" (p. 5). Nevertheless, Gray gives his highest
                    praise to The Hoosiers (1900), "a remarkably full and
                    detailed study of 
                        Indiana's
                     literary, social, and political culture" (p. 63); The House of a Thousand Candles (1905), a mystery/adventure
                    novel and his most popular book; and A Hoosier Chronicle
                    (1913), which Gray considers to be Nicholson's "most
                    significant" and probably best novel, as well as his first venture into
                    realism.
                Three other chapters chronicle Nicholson's political career, beginning
                    in the 1920s with a chaotic and transformative decade of his life that other
                    biographers have failed to address. Gray effectively captures
                    Nicholson's fading glory as novelist - unable to successfully navigate
                    the shift in readers' and critics' tastes from romantic to
                    realistic fiction - and his rising reputation as a statesman and as a political
                    and social writer. These new roles brought their own difficulties: Along with an
                    unsuccessful bid for the state senate, Nicholson was one of 
                        Indiana's
                     few publicly outspoken critics of the Ku Klux Klan. This unsettling
                    period of his life ended with the death of his wife Eugenie, but he soon
                    remarried and entered eight years of diplomatic service in 
                        Paraguay
                    , 
                        Venezuela
                    , and 
                        Nicaragua
                    .
                The book concludes with a synopsis of the years following Nicholson's
                    return to the 
                        United States
                     in 1941. The chapter has an unavoidably melancholy tone, as
                    Nicholson tries to reestablish a home and a writing career in his beloved 
                        Indiana
                    , despite loneliness and a collapsing marriage. Yet Gray asserts the
                    import of Nicholson's stature and reputation in 
                        Indianapolis
                     until his death in 1947, at the age of 81.
                While the book's subject matter may seem to be of interest only to
                    students of 
                        Indiana
                     literature and history, its significance as the first - and
                    undoubtedly only - biography of this once major American author and public
                    figure is not to be overlooked. Nor is Gray's expert handling of his
                    subject matter. He avoids the common tendency to divide Nicholson's
                    life into two distinct halves, as writer and statesman. Rather, as
                    Gray's subtitle makes clear, he
                    unifies the whole of Nicholson's career into
                    "a writing life." The result is a coherent, compelling study
                    with only minor shortcomings: a few instances of unwieldy prose that is
                    otherwise is clear and elegant, and, in discussion of events spanning 1938 to
                    1943, a few confusing shifts in chronology. Such lapses are negligible, however,
                    in light of the book's sizable contributions to 
                        Indiana's
                     literary and historical scholarship.
                As Gray recalls in his final chapter, the New York Times called
                    Nicholson "the last leaf on a famous literary tree that grew in 
                        Indiana
                    " (p. 243). Thanks to Ralph Gray's insistence that
                    the life and work of Meredith Nicholson are still worth considering, despite the
                    shifting literary winds of the last century, Nicholson's place on that
                    tree will remain secure.
                BARBARA A. STEDMAN is Director of National and International Scholarships
                    and Honors Fellow for the Honors College, Ball State University.
            
            
                Steel Shavings, Volume 39
                    Brothers in Arms Edited by James B. Lane (
                        Gary
                    : Indiana University Northwest, 2008. 240 pages. Illustrations,
                    index. Paperbound, $12.50.)
                In this latest volume of the Steel Shavings series - a social
                    history journal focusing on the Calumet region of northwest 
                        Indiana
                     - historian James B. Lane has again woven together a
                    thought-provoking, often entertaining, and at times tragic collection of oral
                    histories and recollections from Vietnam veterans. The series first featured the
                    stirring voices of local Vietnam veterans in 1988, when history students at
                    Indiana University Northwest compiled oral interviews in conjunction with
                    Professor Lane's course on the war. At a time when Reagan-era
                    revisionists were attempting to recast the Vietnam conflict as a noble and
                    winnable endeavor, Lane and his students intended to reinforce the real
                    "lessons of Vietnam" - from the hazards of misunderstanding
                    vital national interest to the absence of a clearly defined exit strategy - by
                    using the reminiscences of the working-class men and women who paid for those
                    mistakes in southeast Asia. Now, twenty years later, with the 
                        United States
                     again groping for answers in another unconventional war,
                    Lane's students have gathered together another album of visceral
                    testimony in the hopes of revisiting many of those apparently still unheeded
                    lessons of Vietnam.
                As one soldier explains, every veteran has his own story; no two are the same.
                    Indeed the real value of this Steel Shavings volume rests in
                    the richness and multiplicity of perspectives
                    from these soldiers, many of whom are drawing on lives well-lived, and
                    not-so-well-lived, to make sense of their distinctive place in the Vietnam
                    experience. More than fifty IUN students conducted the loosely structured oral
                    histories around such themes as how veterans found themselves in 
                        Vietnam
                    , how they experienced life "in country" and upon
                    return to "the world," and how they assess the impact of
                    Vietnam on their lives.
                A certain stoicism, often fatalism, emerges from these pages, as many veterans
                    from this steel mill region of 
                        Indiana
                     that sent a disproportionate number of its sons to 
                        Vietnam
                     recall their decision to enlist, instead of waiting to be drafted,
                    and their curious baptism into the surreal logic of war. For some, 
                        Vietnam
                     was a land of fantastic flora and fauna: elephants and elephant
                    grass, tigers, leeches, mosquitoes, and lizards whose cries sounded remarkably
                    like obscenities. Others evoke the unforgettable smells of the war-sweat,
                    gunpowder, diesel fuel, rain, and the sickeningly sweet stench of death. Nearly
                    all work to articulate in some haunting way the raw emotions of human suffering
                    and the senseless waste of young lives both interrupted and too often cut short.
                    Not surprisingly, strong feelings of mistrust and cynicism - toward the
                    government in general and military adventurism more specifically - permeate
                    these pages, as does a pronounced aversion to the idea of sending their own sons
                    to be exploited in undeclared wars. In addition to the powerful oral histories,
                    Lane wisely includes other primary source materials, including selections from
                    contemporary newspaper columns and sundry letters, diaries, poems, memoirs, and
                    photographs, to further establish the authentic look and feel of the Vietnam
                    era. In fact, the volume's most provocative passages are those excerpts
                    from L.T. Wolf's Soldier's Viet-nam (1996)
                    and Joe Klein's fine book Payback: Five Marines After
                        Vietnam (1984) about the heartrending odyssey of a veteran named Gary
                    Cooper.
                Ultimately, as the bloodshed and horror of Vietnam increasingly fade from our
                    collective consciousness, the memories included in this volume of Steel Shavings realize Lane's aim of reiterating the harsh
                    lessons of what George Kennan judged the most disastrous of all American
                    undertakings. In doing so, he and his students capture the simple dignity of
                    these unheralded Vietnam veterans who, in serving their country, often
                    "walked the line between heroism and cowardice, proud but with few
                    illusions" (p. 112).
                JOEL P. RHODES is an associate professor in the History Department of
                    Southeast Missouri State University. He is the author of "It Finally
                    Happened Here: The 1968 Riot in 
                        Kansas
                            City
                    , 
                        Missouri
                    ," in the Missouri Historical Review and
                        The Voice of Violence: Performative Violence as Protest in the
                        Vietnam Era (2001).
            
            
            
                
                    Robert E Kennedy and the 1968 Indiana Primary By Ray E. Boomhower(
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2008. Pp. xii,173. Illustrations,
                    bibliography, notes, index. $21.95.)
                At the outset of the 1968 campaign, Robert Kennedy remarked that he was the only
                    serious candidate ever to run for President opposed by business, organized
                    labor, and his own party's leadership. That was certainly the case
                    during the Indiana primary, the first contest on the calendar for Kennedy after
                    his late entry into that tumultuous year's fateful presidential race.
                    In 
                        Indiana
                    , Kennedy took on the state's Democratic establishment in
                    the name of Governor Roger Branigin, who had put himself on the ballot as a
                    stand-in for the soon-to-be lame duck President Lyndon Johnson. He also
                    confronted The Indianapolis Star, which attacked Kennedy on
                    its front and editorial pages almost daily. Add the fact that Senator Eugene
                    McCarthy had already won over many of 
                        America's
                     young activists for his willingness to challenge LBJ in the New
                    Hampshire and Wisconsin primaries, and Kennedy was, in a sense, on his own in 
                        Indiana
                    , forced to write a new playbook.
                Ray Boomhower's excellent Robert Kennedy and the 1968
                        Indiana Primary details how Kennedy navigated his campaign to victory
                    through this singularly inhospitable terrain. 
                        Indiana
                     was an even more unlikely state in which to lay down his
                    presidential marker than 
                        West
                            Virginia
                     had been for his brother in 1960. 
                        Indiana
                     was known as a conservative Republican state. "Hoosiers
                    are phlegmatic, skeptical, hard to move, with a 'show-me'
                    attitude," wrote native Hoosier reporter and campaign advisor John
                    Bartlow Martin in a memo to Kennedy. George Wallace had carried almost one-third
                    of the Indiana Democratic primary vote just four years earlier. To win, Kennedy
                    needed to mold together a new coalition of voters comprising what syndicated
                    columnist Joseph Kraft called "Black Power and Backlash."
                Kennedy's highly visible work on civil rights issues as Attorney General
                    and U.S. Senator had already earned him strong loyalty among the
                    state's African American population. But it was Kennedy's
                    "mysterious chemistry with lower classes," as reporter and
                    former Kennedy adviser Jack Newfield called it, that allowed him to make
                    critical inroads among the state's white blue-collar workers and family
                    farmers. These voters - Slavs, Poles, Italians, and Irish as well as
                    "rednecks" up from 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                     - were among the neglected and sometimes resentful voters whom
                    Richard Nixon came to call 
                        "America's
                     Silent Majority." Kennedy also worked to capture a share
                    of the youth vote by courting voters in college communities. So it was that
                    Kennedy came to be the first political leader in the late 1960s to try to bring
                    together an 
                        America
                     torn apart by racial divisions
                    and an unpopular war.
                Most fascinating is Boomhower's description of how the Kennedy campaign
                    adjusted itself to the Hoosier state's conservative style and pace.
                    Kennedy began to limit the more frenetic campaign events, although his celebrity
                    made such an effort difficult as spectators would literally grab for a piece of
                    him during campaign appearances, coming away with strands of clothing and locks
                    of hair. Martin had encouraged Kennedy to make campaign visits to the
                    state's historic sites to demonstrate his understanding of
                    "Hoosier pride." He also pressed Kennedy to visit the backlash
                    factory towns in central 
                        Indiana
                    , followed by a whistle-stop railroad trip on the famous Wabash
                    Cannonball.
                Kennedy also toned down his message, emphasizing his tough law-and-order
                    background and his support of policies to move people from welfare to work.
                    Kennedy strongly believed his message of "self reliance" and
                    "community action" to fight poverty as an alternative to big
                    government programs, and he delivered it to black and white audiences alike,
                    although many liberals cringed. By turns, he charmed and challenged his
                    audiences, calling on voters to take personal responsibility for making 
                        America
                     better. Hoosiers came to Kennedy skeptically, but they found unique
                    honesty and authenticity.
                The best remembered moment from Kennedy's 1968 Indiana primary campaign
                    is, of course, is his visit to an 
                        Indianapolis
                     inner-city park, where he informed a mostly African American crowd
                    of Martin Luther King Jr.'s assassination just minutes before.
                    Boomhower begins his book with a recounting of that day - April 4, 1968 - and a
                    reiteration of the spontaneous words by Kennedy that not only quelled a riot but
                    still stand as one of the most moving campaign speeches in American political
                    history.
                Robert Kennedy's 1968 campaign has been called the "last good
                    campaign," a moniker with which the supporters of Barack Obama might
                    now quarrel. Like Obama, Kennedy launched his campaign with the promise to bring
                    together an 
                        America
                     divided by an unpopular war. And, like Obama, Kennedy sought to
                    practice a new kind of politics in which ordinary citizens could shape their own
                    and their country's destiny and to push Americans to pursue a higher
                    purpose than mere accumulation of wealth. This book is a must-read for anyone
                    interested in presidential politics.
                CHRIS SAUTTER is a 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    , attorney, political strategist, and award-winning documentary
                    film- maker. His film The King of Steeltown: Hardball Politics in
                        the Heartland, about machine politics in 
                        East
                            Chicago
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , won "Best Political Documentary" at the New York
                    International Independent Film Festival in 2001. Sautter has a B.A. in history
                    from Indiana University, and he teaches a course on election law at American
                    University.
            
            
            
                The Girl in the Tangerine ScarfBy Mohja Kahf(
                        New
                            York
                    : Carroll and Graf, 2006. Pp. 444. Paperbound, $15.95.)
                Literary critic and poet Mohja Kahf makes her novelistic debut with The Girl in the Tangerine Scarf, a female bildungsroman set in the American heartland. Khadra Shamys, a young
                    Syrian-born girl and the protagonist of the novel, journeys with her family to 
                        Indiana
                    , where her parents aspire to spread the word of the prophet and to
                    help fellow Muslims perfect their practice of Islam. Chosen for its central
                    location, "international airport, low crime rates, and affordable
                    land," 
                        Indianapolis
                     becomes the destination of choice for Khadra's sincere,
                    mission-minded parents. Intent on instilling the "Islamic
                    Lifestyle" among wayward Muslims, Khadra's parents have no
                    compunctions about policing the religious behavior of their friends. Khadra is
                    nurtured by a tight-knit, cosmopolitan community of Muslim aunties and uncles,
                    comprising African Americans, Arabs, South Asians, and Cambodians. In spite of
                    the social cement provided by Islam, the community is marked by sectarian
                    tensions between Sunnis and Shias, the racial prejudices of Arab members against
                    their African and African American cohorts, and differences in economic
                    status.
                Through her protagonist, Kahf explores the complications and contradictions of
                    identity at a number of different levels, asking what it means to be Muslim, a
                    Muslim feminist, an Arab, a Hoosier, and an American. As the novel progresses,
                    Khadra sheds her simplistic understanding of each of these identities and gains
                    a more complex one. During her sojourn in 
                        Syria
                     following her divorce, she has an epiphany regarding Sufism, an
                    experience that challenges the religious orthodoxy of her youth and helps to
                    solidify her burgeoning feminism. She acquires a real knowledge of
                    multiculturalism on the same trip through her interactions with Syrian Jews and
                    her recognition of their claims to an authentic Syrian identity. After returning
                    to the 
                        United States
                    , Khadra similarly articulates a multicultural American identity,
                    delighting in the ethnic and religious diversity of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , where she has moved to escape 
                        Indiana
                     and to pursue a degree in photography. Her conception of Islam
                    expands to incorporate a wide range of practices. Yet, as Kahf revealed in a
                    recent radio interview, prayer constitutes the "secret embedded
                    structure of the novel" (www.whhb.org/news/newstopics.php?tid=3). One
                    of her goals was to represent material practices of Islam such as qiyam, ruku,
                    sajda, and juloos (each term describes a specific bodily posture and spiritual
                    stage during the ritual of prayer). Another aim was to convey the texture of
                    Muslim material culture by evoking memories of the fashion for Kuwaiti tie-back
                    head scarves and black  velvet pictures of
                    Kaba that were popular in the seventies.
                For Khadra, changes in her Islamic consciousness necessarily entail realigning
                    her understanding of American identity. She begins to see parallels between the
                    experiences of her community and those of other religious minorities,
                    particularly Mormons, Catholics, and Jews. The 
                        United States
                     becomes visible as a religious mosaic populated by the Amish,
                    Native Americans, Presbyterians and Quakers; the charming Mrs. Moore (a literary
                    reference to E.M. Forster), for example, is a Friend who speaks a smattering of
                    Arabic and regularly contributes her rhubarb pies to the Muslim
                    community's celebrations. Indeed, by the end of the novel Khadra has
                    another epiphany regarding parallels between Muslims and Midwesterners:
                    "Hoosiers - set in their ways, hardworking, steady, valuing God and
                    family ... they're us, and we're them. Hah! My folks are the
                    perfect Hoosiers!" (p. 438).
                Kahf also successfully decenters dominant American narratives about geopolitics
                    by describing Arab perceptions and reactions to an all-too muscular and imperial
                    foreign policy. The characters express horror at the Sabra and Shatila
                    massacres, cheer the overthrow of the Shah of Iran, avidly follow the first
                    Intifada, experience outrage at Syrian Baathist attempts to strip women of
                    hijab, and mourn the aerial bombings of 
                        Iraq
                     with their attendant massive civilian casualties. A worthy addition
                    to the emergent canon of ethnic literature, the novel importantly challenges
                    readers to adopt a more international perspective. However, occasional
                    colloquialisms, along with the earnest didacticism of some passages, mar the
                    novel's otherwise lyrical prose.
                PURNIMA BOSE is an associate professor of English at Indiana University,
                    Bloomington. She is the author of Organizing Empire: Individualism,
                        Collective Agency, and 
                            India
                         (2003) and the co-editor, with Laura E. Lyons, of the
                    forthcoming volume Cultural Critique and the Global
                        Corporation. Her current scholarship focuses on the Indian diaspora in 
                        Indiana
                    .
            
            
                The ShawneeBy Jerry E. Clark(
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of Kentucky, 2007. Pp. ix, 105. Illustrations,
                    bibliography, index. Paperbound, $18.00.)
                This brave little book, originally published in 1977, attempts a survey of the
                    culture and history of the eighteenth-century Shawnee, the tribe most associated
                    with contesting the white settlement of the Old Northwest. Despite their
                    importance, the Shawnee had then attracted few serious scholars, and most of the literature was
                    superficial, vague, and inaccurate. The best published research, by such
                    pioneers as Erminie Wheeler Voegelin and Charles Hanna, treated only limited
                    aspects of what was a large, complicated, and legendary field. Undeterred, Jerry
                    E. Clark offered an introduction remarkable for its breadth, tackling issues as
                    diverse as musical styles, folklore, migration, technology, and inter-tribal
                    relations. Fishing such murky waters, the book does not entirely succeed but
                    still repays study.
                The author, an anthropologist, is weakest on the straight history, and there are
                    misleading errors. We are told that 
                        Kentucky
                     was "the only territory" the Shawnee
                    "could possibly consider as a homeland" (p. 94), a statement
                    incompatible with the fact that the tribe established hardly any substantial
                    villages there (Eskippakithiki being an unusual exception) but some forty
                    further north in 
                        Ohio
                    , which some Shawnees declared to be an ancestral home. Even more
                    jarring is the assertion that "Tecumseh gathered a force from several
                    tribes and made raids on the 
                        Kentucky
                     settlements of 
                        Blue Licks
                    ...and 
                        Bryan
                            Station
                    " (pp. 92-3), which attributes hostilities that occurred in
                    1782, when Tecumseh was a boy, to a movement he would launch after 1806! Readers
                    wanting a surer-footed introduction to the crucial role the tribe played between
                    1740 and 1820 are better served by Colin Calloway's The
                        Shawnees and the War for 
                            America
                         (2007). Clark is stronger when he deals with the
                    fragmentation of the tribe in the seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries,
                    for which he draws upon his doctoral dissertation on Shawnee migration. His
                    outline of the confusing movements of Shawnees at that time, the motives that
                    impelled them, and the relationships they formed with different Indian and white
                    communities is useful and thoughtful.
                Clark is more comfortable reconstructing the culture of the Shawnees, and his
                    discussion ranges widely and intelligently. His view that the tribe was
                    characteristically conservative, despite extensive interaction with other
                    peoples and a growing dependency upon European manufactures, is worthy of more
                    detailed investigation. But even here the sources are often more treacherous
                    than Clark suspects. Some contemporaries, such as John Johnston, sometime 
                        United States
                     Indian agent to the Shawnee, colored accounts of Shawnee life with
                    observations actually made of other tribes, while most modern historians have
                    overly furnished theirs from descriptions of Shawnee society as it existed in
                    the late nineteenth or twentieth centuries, as if it had not just passed through
                    the most radical period of cultural change in its known history. Among many
                    wearisome anachronisms projected into the past by such historians is confusion
                    about the five different divisions of Shawnee in the eighteenth century. Here,
                    Clark errs in stating that the tribal chieftainship of the Shawnee was a prerogative of the Chillicothe
                    division (p. 33). It was actually exercised by the Mekoche division, and the
                    famous civil chief Black Hoof was not a Chillicothe (p. 16), but a volubly
                    patriotic Mekoche. Divisional differences in practices also make generalizations
                    about the Shawnee as a whole difficult. Thus what Clark calls "the
                    Shawnee myth of origin" (p. 52), involving a voyage over water, was
                    actually a Chillicothe rather than a "tribal" myth, and the
                    Mekoches had a very different account of their origins.
                Our picture of the authentic eighteenth-century Shawnees is still blurred and
                    fragmentary, but archaeological research and newly discovered documentary
                    sources are slowly sharpening the image. It is a pity that the University Press
                    of Kentucky did not give Clark an opportunity to revise his book, and weigh
                    recent research. As it is, it needs to be used cautiously. Nevertheless, its
                    comprehensiveness makes it an excellent starting point for any investigation of
                    this remarkable people during their great days in 
                        Kentucky
                     and the Old Northwest.
                JOHN SUGDEN of 
                        Arnside
                    , 
                        Cumbria
                    , in 
                        England
                    , is the author of several books and articles relating to Shawnee
                    history, including Tecumseh's Last Stand (1985) and two award-winning
                    studies of Shawnee chiefs, Tecumseh, A Life (1998), and Bluejacket, Warrior of the Shawnees (2000). He is currently
                    revising his biography of Tecumseh.
            
            
                Lewis & Clark and the Indian CountryThe Native
                        American Perspective Edited by Frederick E. Hoxie and Jay T.
                    Nelson (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 2007. Pp. 366. Illustrations, index,
                    bibliography. Clothbound, $70.00; paperbound, $24.95.)
                Planning for the Lewis and Clark expedition began in early 1803. The expedition
                    itself lasted from 1803 to 1806. Planning for the commemoration of the
                    expedition's bicentennial began some ten years before the actual
                    January 2003 opening ceremonies. The expedition involved thousands of people in
                    its planning, administration, and execution. The bicentennial involved millions,
                    from those who worked in its planning stages to those who attended events on
                    local, state, and national levels. Contemporary media coverage of the expedition
                    was scant, and published accounts were relatively few. Not so for the
                    bicentennial. The sum total of all the related events, publications, films,
                    products, etc., easily numbered in the thousands. Some bicentennial efforts were
                    better than others and made a more lasting contribution to the Lewis and Clark
                    legacy. From the beginning of planning,
                    organizers committed to having meaningful Native American input and involvement.
                    Working with those tribes whose ancestors made the success of the expedition
                    possible, they saw the bicentennial as an opportunity to tell the Indian side of
                    the Lewis and Clark story and also to address the issues and challenges faced
                    today by the descendants of those native peoples whom the Corps of Discovery
                    encountered.
                This effort was largely successful. Significant Native American participation in
                    the bicentennial led to some of the most important results of the entire
                    commemoration. The Newberry Library's exhibition, "Lewis and
                    Clark and the Indian Country," looked not only at the Corps'
                    interactions with native peoples but at its impact in the years that followed.
                    Lewis and Clark were the leading edge of a people and a government that would
                    sweep across the American West and permanently change the lives and cultures of
                    its native peoples.
                The Newberry exhibition led to Lewis & Clark and the Indian
                        Country: The Native American Perspective. Using sources from the time
                    of the expedition and from the years that followed, as well as current essays
                    and interview transcripts, editors Frederick Hoxie and Jay Nelson present an
                    instructive account of Indian - 
                        United States
                     interaction from the expedition to the present, as well as of
                    Native American culture and affairs. Journal entries written by expedition
                    members about their encounters with the native peoples; Native American creation
                    myths and other stories; accounts of the impact of reservations, cattle herding,
                    and the damming of the Missouri upon Indian life; and narratives of efforts to save
                    such aspects of traditional culture as language, fishing, and crafts are just
                    some of the many subjects in this enlightening and interesting book. As
                    contributor James Ronda makes clear, both the Corps of Discovery and the native
                    peoples they encountered were explorers. Ronda's conclusion provides
                    some "sobering thoughts" on the Lewis and Clark story, the
                    bicentennial, and the lessons offered by both (pp. 343-52).
                
                        Indiana
                     played a significant part in the Lewis and Clark story. The first
                    person Meriwether Lewis tried to recruit for the journey was Indian trader and
                    interpreter John Conner of 
                        Indiana
                    . It was at the Falls of the Ohio, in Louisville and in neighboring
                    Clarksville, 
                        Indiana
                    , that William Clark recruited the foundation of the Corps of
                    Discovery, the famous "Nine Young Men from 
                        Kentucky
                    ," who, together with Clark's enslaved African
                    American York, were essential to the expedition's success. Expedition
                    reports and artifacts crossed 
                        Indiana
                     from 
                        Vincennes
                     to 
                        Clarksville
                     on their way eastward. 
                        Indiana
                     Territorial Governor William Henry Harrison corresponded with
                    Clark. The 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Indiana Gazette reported news of the Corps' journey
                    that was reprinted in other newspapers. Lewis and Clark traveled across 
                        Indiana
                     on their way east in the fall of 1806, and some of the expedition
                    veterans settled in the territory.
                
                        Indiana
                     agencies, groups, and individuals took an active part in
                    commemorating the recent anniversary, and the state's Lewis and Clark
                    Bicentennial Foundation continues to support Lewis and Clark - related
                    programming. All in all, 
                        Indiana
                     has an important connection to this historic event in American
                    history and to the efforts to commemorate and learn from it. For Hoosiers as for
                    all Americans, Lewis and Clark's experiences in Indian country offer
                    much to be considered and learned from, today and for the future.
                JAMES J. HOLMBERG of the Filson Historical Society is the editor of Dear Brother: Letters of William Clark to Jonathan Clark
                    (2002) and editor/author of other books and articles on Lewis and Clark. He has
                    also served on local, state, and national Lewis and Clark organization boards
                    and committees.
            
            
                Frontiers of FaithBringing Catholicism to the West in the
                        Early Republic By John R. Dichtl (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of Kentucky, 2008. Pp. ix, 240. Notes,
                    bibliography, index. $50.00.)
                John Dichtl's study traces Catholic for- tunes in the trans-Appalachian
                    West - 
                        Kentucky
                    , the backcountry of 
                        Maryland
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , the southernmost portions of 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Indiana
                     - from the 1780s through the 1820s. The trans-Appalachian frontier
                    in these decades, he argues, was for Catholics a "contested
                    space" - a place where they encountered an almost bewildering variety
                    of Protestants on more or less equal terms. If Catholics were still a numerical
                    minority and handicapped by poverty, they could draw on the resources of a rich
                    devotional tradition that was rendered the more evocative by the circumstances
                    of frontier privation. They also enjoyed the services of some remarkable priests
                    - men who aspired to communal as well as religious leadership. As a result,
                    frontier Catholics, and especially their clergy, were more apt than their East
                    Coast confreres to be optimists with regard to the future of American
                    Catholicism and confident in their own standing as citizens.
                At the same time, frontier life posed serious obstacles to Catholicism's
                    flourishing. Even where they tried to settle together, Catholics in the
                    trans-Appalachian West almost invariably had Protestant neighbors. An acute
                    shortage of priests and money retarded the development of conventional parish
                    life. Frontier mobility undermined efforts to build community, while frontier
                    isolation increased the likelihood of religious intermarriage. Particularly in
                    the early years of settlement, moreover, that
                    same isolation made it hard for a distant bishop to discipline his priests,
                    which resulted in an unusually large number of clerical scandals in the region,
                    generally centered on money and factional infighting. Sexual scandals seem to
                    have been less common, at least according to the surviving record. But scandals
                    of any variety were damaging not just to Catholic morale but to prospects for
                    inter-religious harmony.
                Dichtl's narrative departs from most previous accounts of Catholicism in
                    the early Republic in its marked absence of triumphalism. Although he duly notes
                    the institution-building achievements of these decades, some of which were
                    impressive, he is far more interested in the encounter between Catholics and
                    non-Catholics. A rough sort of ecumenism does seem to have prevailed in the
                    early years of frontier settlement. Catholic schools were among the first
                    educational institutions to be established in the trans-Appalachian West and
                    were typically patronized by Protestants as well as Catholics. Protestants often
                    contributed to Catholic church-building funds, motivated partly by a hunger for
                    social stability and partly by boosterism. Catholic preaching of even the most
                    vigorously apologetic variety usually drew crowds, given the loneliness and
                    tedium of frontier existence, as did Catholic devotional processions. There were
                    occasional conversions, too, which figured prominently in period Catholic
                    mythology.
                In the 1820s, however, growing Catholic numbers and continued achievement on the
                    institutional front led to increasing religious polarization. For many
                    evangelical Protestants, Catholic success in the trans-Appalachian West - no
                    matter how modest its actual dimensions - threatened to erode the
                    nation's Protestant identity. By the 1830s, what Ray Allen Billington
                    has famously called "the Protestant crusade" was well
                    underway, stoked in subsequent years by greatly accelerated Catholic
                    immigration. American Catholics responded by turning inward, their lives more
                    and more defined by exclusively Catholic institutions and distinctive religious
                    practices derived from European devotional traditions.
                Dichtl is especially to be commended for exploring an under-researched period and
                    locale in American Catholic history. He has done a fine job of interrogating
                    sources that come mostly from clerical hands. I particularly admired his
                    analysis of Catholic material culture in a frontier context. His book is a
                    welcome addition to American Catholic historiography.
                LESLIE W. TENTLER, professor in the Department of History, Catholic
                    University of America, is the author, most recently, of Catholics
                        and Contraception: An American History (2004) and editor of The Church Confronts Modernity: Catholicism Since 1950 in the 
                            United States
                        , 
                            Ireland
                        , and 
                            Qubec
                         (2007).
            
            
            
                The Arts and Architecture of German Settlements in 
                            Missouri
                         A Survey of a Vanishing Culture By Charles van
                    Ravenswaay (
                        Columbia
                    : University of Missouri Press, 2006. Pp. xxxvi, 539. Illustrations,
                    notes, bibliography, index. $79.95.)
                The University of Missouri Press is to be commended for republishing Charles van
                    Ravenswaay's magnum opus, an exhaustive and lavishly illustrated
                    catalog of folk art, objects, and architecture associated with German immigrants
                    who settled in 
                        Missouri
                     in the mid-nineteenth century. In doing so, the press has provided
                    another generation of readers with access to a true classic, a handsome volume
                    that belongs on the shelf of historians, folklorists, and Germanophiles, as well
                    as anyone concerned with German immigration to the 
                        U.S.
                     An informative and touching introduction by Adolf Shroeder, van
                    Ravenswaay's longtime acquaintance and a noted expert on German
                    settlements in 
                        Missouri
                    , is a welcome addition to this revised edition.
                    Schroeder's richly detailed biographical sketch does a fine job of
                    placing the work in context and provides the reader with an overview of the
                    author's life and accomplishments. Schroeder rightly credits the first
                    publication of van Ravenswaay's work in 1977 with a revival of interest
                    in German cultural traditions, festivals, history, and sister-city agreements in
                    the German-settled region of 
                        Missouri
                     in the 1980s.
                The book is divided into three parts. Part I, "The Great
                    Migration" (chapters 1-4), provides a contextual framework within which
                    to view the German immigration to 
                        Missouri
                     in the nineteenth century, based largely on a review of secondary
                    sources. Part II, "Buildings" (chapters 5-11), surveys extant
                    examples of folk architecture built by German immigrants who settled along the
                        Missouri River
                    between 
                        St.
                            Louis
                     and 
                        Jefferson
                            City
                    , the region with which the book is most concerned. This section of
                    the book is an exhaustive accounting of such artifacts, and includes hundreds of
                    photographs, sketches, and floor plans. While most such surveys are organized
                    according to architectural form and style, van Ravenswaay organizes this section
                    by construction material (log, frame, stone and brick), which unfortunately does
                    not as easily allow comparisons across time and space. Part III,
                    "Objects for Domestic Use" (chapters 12-23), surveys extant
                    examples of domestic objects such as furniture (cupboards, benches, pie safes,
                    tables, chairs, chests), musical instruments, baskets, firearms, textiles,
                    pottery, and drawings and prints that were either brought with the immigrants
                    from 
                        Germany
                     or made by German immigrants in 
                        Missouri
                    . This section is also stunningly comprehensive in scope and
                    likewise is accompanied by literally hundreds of photographs and drawings of
                    these objects.
                
                Academically, the book should be seen as a product of its time and judged by what
                    it is - a largely descriptive survey, massive in its scope and remarkable in its
                    attention to detail, that remains the most impressive record of the material
                    artifacts associated with nineteenth-century German immigrants - rather than by
                    what it is not. The book's main drawback is a lack of significant
                    context that ties the subject matter (folk culture artifacts) to any
                    national-scale patterns or processes. The work tells us very little about the
                    people who made or possessed these objects - class, social ideals, and
                    economies, for example, are concepts almost wholly outside of its purview. Much
                    of the author's discussion of the history of German immigration to 
                        Missouri
                     is unfortunately outdated and is preoccupied with the role of
                    various organized settlement ventures and societies. A plethora of highly
                    detailed studies of individual immigrant communities in the Midwest written in
                    the 1980s and 1990s, which traced immigrants back to sending regions in Europe,
                    have provided a much richer and fuller understanding of the nature of German
                    immigration in the nineteenth century, focusing on the role of chain migration
                    and the role of class in the trans-Atlantic migration. But in the end these
                    shortcomings distract little from the overall value of this stunning and
                    beautiful piece of scholarship. Viewed within the context of the
                    author's main goals (to catalog and survey folk artifacts) and of the
                    period in which it was written, it remains a true classic even thirty years
                    after its initial publication.
                TIMOTHY G. ANDERSON is associate professor and chair of the department of
                    Geography, Ohio University.
            
            
                Radical Unionism in the Midwest 1900-1950 By Rosemary
                    Feurer (
                        Champaign
                    : University of Illinois Press, 2006. Pp. xix, 320. Illustrations,
                    notes, index. Clothbound, $65.00; paperbound, $25.00.)
                The global capitalist supremacy that accompanied the thaw of the Cold War left
                    the American labor movement unable to articulate alternatives to a system that
                    continued to destroy communities, devastate the environment, and increase the
                    distance between the haves and the have-nots. So reads the usual academic
                    assessment of the state of American labor in the twenty-first century - a view
                    with roots that reach back to the supposedly lean, lost decades that surrounded
                    the First World War.
                Rosemary Feurer acknowledges the dim outlook for labor in the new millennium, but
                    she is not so pessimistic in her appraisal of when or how the trouble began. This is because she frames
                    her analysis more broadly than the traditional labor history of great leaders
                    stirring militancy on the shop floor to overcome the hegemony of large,
                    multi-plant corporations. Her view extends to "labor's
                    periphery," where a "militant minority endeavored to weld
                    their workmates and neighbors into a self-aware and purposeful working
                    class" (p. 236). This widened gaze - encompassing both workplace and
                    community - allows her to note the substantive social change that seemed
                    possible when workers confronted corporate power on the job and worked to
                    transform their local community and the nation.
                 Feurer labels this recognition of the union as both labor organization and civic
                    organization "radical unionism," and locates its embodiment in
                    District 8 of the United Electrical, Radio, and Machine Workers of America, a
                    cluster of local unions stretching across six midwestern states. Based in 
                        St.
                            Louis
                    , District 8 emerged in 1936 alongside a number of grassroots
                    organizations with Communist ties. Under the leadership of Communist William
                    Sentner, the 50,000 members of District 8 drew upon the city's rich
                    leftist labor heritage and combined it with a strong civic consciousness to
                    become "one of the most democratic organizations of working-class life
                    in the Midwest" (p. 223). Feurer carefully narrates the development of
                    Sentner's personal philosophy of "human rights above property
                    rights," (p. 72) and its evolution into a union philosophy to
                    "link workers' struggle with community-based
                    mobilizations" (p. 43). From his early 1930s experiences organizing
                    black female workers in 
                        St.
                            Louis's
                     nut-shelling sweatshops, Sentner recognized that community was
                    vital if a union was to act as a movement for social transformation. He and
                    other district organizers tapped into networks of communal support in a plan to
                    overcome anti-union bosses in electrical manufacturing plants in 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Iowa
                     (Emerson, Century, Wagner, and Maytag) and metal-trades firms in 
                        Indiana
                    , and also to improve other aspects of daily existence in 
                        St.
                            Louis
                    . They addressed housing issues, allied with clergy, challenged
                    racist cultural practices, confronted gender inequalities, and developed youth
                    programs. The multi-city, multi-firm comparative method that Feurer employs to
                    tell these stories reveals the importance of cross-plant solidarity - strikes at
                    some shops helped stimulate organizing in others - but also uncovers the ways in
                    which employers collaborated through locally based trade and civic associations
                    to combat the union threat - linking community success to collective bargaining
                    and employee-employer cooperation. Her examination of the subtle power of civic
                    anti-unionism to undermine worker solidarity adds another important chapter to
                    the story of the failure of the American labor movement in the 1940s.
                
                District 8 took a beating during the anticommunist offensive of that decade, and
                    collapsed completely by 1955, despite the strength of its radical unionism.
                    Nevertheless, District 8 is an important topic, Feurer concludes, because of its
                    considerable difference from mainstream unions: its commitment to civil rights,
                    its adherence to community-based organizing strategies, and its penchant for
                    eschewing collective bargaining and cooperation with employers in favor of shop
                    floor militancy. Although it disappeared - along with the rest of radical
                    American labor - its effort represents an important moment in labor history when
                    union activism and community organizing were fused by ordinary people who wanted
                    to participate in the decisions that shaped their lives. Feurer narrates that
                    moment - and captures its spirit - very well.
                CYNTHIA GWYNNE YAUDES co-edited (with Thomas J. Edward Walker) Illusive Identity: The Blurring of Working-class Consciousness in Modern
                        Western Culture (2005).
            
            
                Politician Extraordinaire The Tempestuous Life and Times of
                        Martin L. Davey By Frank P. Vazzano (
                        Kent
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    : Kent State University Press, 2008, Pp. xi, 322. Illustrations,
                    notes, bibliography, index. $45.00.)
                Frank Vazzano argues in this straight-forward, accessible, and competent
                    biography that Martin L. Davey, 
                        Ohio
                     congressman (1919-1921 and 1923-1929) and governor (1935-1939),
                    gave "friend and foe alike the political ride of their lives"
                    (p. 274). But the portrait Vazzano draws of the conservative politician suggests
                    that the ride was mostly downhill.
                Vazzano begins his survey of Davey's life with a look at his troubled
                    boyhood. His father, English immigrant John Davey, was a distant and stern
                    figure who invented the art of tree surgery, but the resulting family fortune
                    came too late to spare Martin from the typical trials of an impoverished
                    turn-of-the-century American household. Indeed, much about Davey's life
                    was typical. Later, as mayor of 
                        Kent
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , he was a booster of the usual sort; as a congressman, his
                    combination of strong partisanship, populist instincts, and pro-business views
                    relegated him to the sidelines; and as governor, he cared more about reelection
                    than governing.
                As the book's title suggests, Davey was a better office-seeker than
                    officeholder. While a congressman, he preferred to skip votes and legislative
                    work to spend time with his family - and business - back in 
                        Ohio
                    . True, being a member of the minority party limited his scope of action, but it is telling
                    that his lone notable legislative success - securing funds for the construction
                    of the Navy dirigible Akron (duly named after the city in
                    Davey's congressional district) - ended in the 1933 loss of the blimp
                    and 73 men at sea. Davey's time as governor is equally devoid of
                    general interest. The only really noteworthy event of his time in 
                        Columbus
                     was a tiff with presidential adviser Harry Hopkins over the
                    organization of New Deal relief efforts, which Vazzano treats in detail. More
                    important to Davey and more interesting to the contemporary reader, however,
                    were the methods that Governor Davey used to keep his political machine well
                    lubricated with both private and public money. Only vetted Democrats could
                    realistically hope to hold a government job, and Davey, with his henchman
                    Francis Poulson, assessed as much as 5 percent of state employees'
                    salaries for their campaign coffers. There were also, of course, the usual side
                    payments and kickbacks associated with government purchasing and the
                    distribution of liquor licenses and similar privileges.
                In his conclusion, the sympathetic Vazzano excuses Davey's consistently
                    petulant responses to his critics, his unprincipled refusal to condemn the 1920s
                    Klan, and his use of public powers for private gain with the tepid admission
                    that the governor was "a bit of a scoundrel" (p. 274).
                    Scoundrel, though, is the wrong word. There was nothing charming or dashing
                    about the mature Davey, as there was about, say, Huey Long. Davey simply viewed
                    patronage and payouts as tools in the vote-winning game, not as ways to advance
                    the interests of the public at large or even of one class of the public.
                Accordingly, Vazzano's life of Davey, like William Pickett's
                    1990 biography of Homer Capehart, is a useful study of a fairly ordinary working
                    politician in twentieth-century 
                        America
                    . Davey's story may not be inspiring, but that is
                    unsurprising; most political careers are not. Examining the circumstances and
                    responses of everyday politicians is a useful way to understand politics, and
                    incidentally a useful corrective to both romanticized and demonized conceptions
                    of the political vocation. An exclusive focus on the Roosevelts, Lincolns, and
                    Kennedys tends to distort those realities and to overshadow the experiences of
                    vast majority of men and women in public life. After all, to paraphrase Roman
                    Hruska, the mediocre politicians are entitled to a little attention,
                    aren't they?
                PAUL MUSGRAVE is a graduate student in government at Georgetown University
                    and special assistant to the director of the Richard Nixon Presidential Library.
                    He wrote for the Indiana Magazine of History about vigilantes
                    and bank robbers in September 2006.
            
            
            
                Style and Status Selling Beauty to African American Women,
                        1920-1975 By Susannah Walker (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of Kentucky, 2007. Pp. xiii, 250. Illustrations,
                    notes, bibliography, index. $40.00.)
                Susannah Walker's Style and Status makes a significant
                    contribution to the history of African American consumerism with particular
                    focus on women's beauty culture. The book, Walker's first,
                    explores the politics, practices, and processes of beauty culture to analyze how
                    "the interplay of race, class and gender . . . shaped power
                    relationships in the 
                        United States
                    " (p. 5). Focused on the years between 1920 and 1975,
                    Walker draws on a rich array of sources including the company records of Claude
                    A. Barnett and Madam C.J. Walker (the latter of which are housed at the Indiana
                    Historical Society). Walker also analyzes oral histories, print advertisements,
                    and text and visuals in black newspapers and magazines. In exploring multiple
                    aspects of African American beauty culture, Walker not only draws on pioneering
                    scholarship in the field, but also builds upon Maxine Craig's recent
                    examination of beauty pageants (Ain't I a Beauty
                        Queen?, 2002) and upon my work on the black modeling industry. Mining
                    these primary and secondary sources allows Walker to trace entrepreneurship,
                    consumption, and identity formation to understand the shifting place of beauty
                    in defining urban African Americans' gendered identities.
                In tracing the glory and decline of black-owned beauty businesses, Walker
                    incisively analyses the paradoxical consequences of white corporate efforts to
                    lure the "New Negro market." Framing this discussion in the
                    trope of "consumer citizenship" - most notably defined by
                    Roland Marchand - Walker shows how black advocacy for white marketing to African
                    Americans proved a double-edged sword. By the late 1940s, white businesses
                    increasingly targeted African Americans as important "new"
                    consumers, yet this validation - long-desired by those like Barnett - undercut
                    the viability of black-owned business. With limited resources, the
                    long-established African American beauty business declined, along with
                    consumerist beauty ideals specified and negotiated by black communities. Walker
                    demonstrates how white advertisers in the 1970s commodified the Afro into a
                    trendy hairstyle, extricating the radical hairdo from its politicized meaning.
                    Walker's analysis of the Afro as a gendered, classed, and even
                    temporary fashion (through wig design), facilitates her argument for an
                    increasing disconnect between consumer-based visions of black female beauty and
                    those constructed and contested by divergent groups of African Americans.
                Walker offers an engaging narrative of changing market and consumer practices, although she might have focused more
                    attention on some matters. For example, Walker writes that shifting consumption
                    patterns during the 1940s diminished interactions between women. As women
                    shopped more often in drug and grocery stores, their personal connections with
                    door-to-door beauty agents - characteristic of commercial beauty culture in the
                    first decades of the twentieth century - declined. This shift deserves greater
                    consideration by looking more closely at beauty-product shopping as a
                    woman-centered activity. In lieu of the beauty agent, did women accompany and
                    advise each other, or did shopping for cosmetics become as banal as shopping for
                    milk? Was this an intergenerational experience? Did the developing youth culture
                    of these decades view this as a bonding activity or an act of rebellion?
                    Exploration of gendered beauty purchasing could provide further insight into the
                    social, economic and age-specific aspects of consumption.
                In other places, Walker develops the classed aspects of women's social
                    interactions. Noteworthy is her discussion of mega-beauty salons. Here, Walker
                    shows how women of all economic classes could afford - if only infrequently - a
                    trip to the beauty salon, where pampering and hair care proved a welcome escape
                    from drudge work for white employers. In recasting the beauty salon from social
                    space to one of upscale leisure, Walker shows that upper-end salons like Cardozo
                    in 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    , implemented new measures such as appointment-keeping and a
                    "no-gossip" policy. Questioning the effectiveness of these
                    regulations, Walker portrays salons as woman-centered spaces where beauty was
                    not always the only, or even primary, concern. Overall, Style and
                        Status offers important contributions to several fields of historical
                    inquiry.
                LAILA HAIDARALI is the inaugural postdoctoral fellow in African American
                    Studies in the Department of History at Case Western Reserve University. Her
                    work on pioneering African American models has appeared in Journal
                        of Women's History, Atlantis: A Women's
                        Studies Journal, and Unequal Sisters: A Multicultural
                        Reader in 
                            U.S.
                         Women's History.
            
            
                Impossible Subjects Illegal Aliens and the Making of Modern 
                            America
                         By Mae M. Ngai (
                        Princeton
                    , 
                        NJ.
                    : Princeton University Press, 2003. Pp. xix, 377. Figures, tables,
                    illustrations, appendix, notes, bibliography, index. Clothbound, $30.00;
                    paperbound, $24.95.)
                Impossible Subjects is a landmark study of twentieth-century 
                        U.S.
                     immigration. Since its publication, the book has won more than a
                    half-dozen major prizes, including the Organization of American
                    Historians' Frederick Jackson
                    Turner Award. Deservedly praised as ambitious and innovative, Impossible Subjects examines the creation of the legal categories and
                    bureaucratic mechanisms that distinguished "citizens" from
                    "aliens" - integral members of the national polity from
                    "subjects" living at its margins.
                The book retraces the evolution of national laws, rulings, policies, and
                    structures from the 1924 Johnson-Reed Act, known for its restrictive national
                    quotas, to the more permissive 1965 Hart-Celler Act. Historians have pointed to
                    Hart-Celler as one of the foremost achievements of post-war liberalism. The law
                    dispensed with racial and national preferences, something President Lyndon B.
                    Johnson called "a deep and painful flaw in the fabric of American
                    justice," and it opened the nation's doors to increasing
                    numbers of immigrants from Latin America, Africa, and Asia (p. 259).
                Ngai, however, skillfully reveals the central paradox of the 1965 act: founded in
                    "the principle of formal equality" and a valorization of
                    cultural pluralism, Hart-Celler actually "comprised a complex of
                    measures that promoted both greater inclusions and greater exclusions"
                    (p. 263). While the act banished old annual immigration quotas, it also imposed
                    new ones: 120,000 for the Western hemisphere; 170,000 for the Eastern hemisphere
                    (encompassing Europe, Asia, and Africa); 20,000 for any given country in the
                    Eastern hemi- sphere-a cap eventually extended to the Western hemisphere. This
                    new regime, though egalitarian in principle, failed to consider pressing
                    realities, including the historic permeability of borders and the large presence
                    of - and growing demand for - Mexican laborers. Consequently, hundreds of
                    thousands of "illegal" Mexicans were deported, and millions
                    more remained in the shadows of the body politic. Hart-Celler effectively
                    codified equality and pluralism at the expense of equity and practicability.
                The paradox of Hart-Celler makes sense in light of earlier reforms and policies,
                    which Ngai masterfully details in preceding chapters, drawing on previously
                    unexamined records of the 
                        U.S.
                     Immigration and Naturalization Service. In the years leading to and
                    following the Johnson Reed Act, politicians invoked "national
                    sovereignty" in seeking greater control over the nation's
                    gateways to stem the tide of "undesirable" Southern and
                    Eastern Europeans. That law introduced the first numerical restrictions (Chinese
                    exclusion notwithstanding) based on national origin, and in turn
                    "created a new class of persons within the national polity - illegal
                    aliens - whose inclusion in the nation was at once a social reality and a legal
                    impossibility" (p. 57). Johnson-Reed also inaugurated a period of
                    deportations, which had the unintended consequence of dramatically increasing
                    illegal migration from exempted countries of the Western Hemisphere, most notably 
                        Mexico
                    . This, in turn, drew attention to the nation's porous
                    borders and, Ngai contends, "rearticulated the 
                        U.S.
                     - 
                        Mexico
                     border as a cultural and racial boundary, a creator of illegal
                    immigration" (p. 67).
                The four decades framed by Johnson-Reed and Hart-Celler saw the fortification of
                    physical, legal, and racial boundaries separating Mexican, Filipino, Japanese,
                    and Chinese residents from the white body politic. Their systematic
                    racialization, juridical exclusion, or conditional admission into the national
                    polity occupies the middle chapters of Ngai's painstaking work.
                In spite of the book's breadth, Impossible Subjects
                    leaves us longing to know more about other American imperial subjects who
                    resided in and moved about the American territories. It is hard to imagine
                    future comparative studies about "alien citizens" that do not
                    expand on Puerto Ricans' 
                        U.S.
                     citizenship (granted in 1917), which in many respects goes to the
                    heart of Ngai's questions about human movement, race, and the American
                    polity. A vast and growing body of scholarship in 
                        U.S.
                     immigration history and ethnic studies has enriched our
                    understanding of race, ethnicity, and nation. This book splendidly bridges and
                    builds on that scholarship.
                JOHN NIETO-PHILLIPS is associate professor of history at Indiana University
                    Bloomington, and associate editor of the Journal of American
                        History. He is co-editor of Interpreting Spanish
                        Colonialism: Empires, Nations and Legends (2005) and author of The Language of Blood: The Making of Spanish American Identity in 
                            New
                                Mexico
                        , 1880s-1930s (2004).
            
            
            
                REVIEW NOTICES
                After the Harvest
                        
                            Indiana's
                         Historic Grain Elevators and Feed Mills Photographs
                    by John Bower. Text by John and Lynn Bower (
                        Bloomington
                    : Studio Indiana, 2007. Pp. 144. Illustrations. Paperbound, $22.00.)
                    Silent Workplace Shops, Stores, Businesses, and Factories
                        Where Hoosiers Once Earned a Living Photographs by John Bower.
                    Text by John and Lynn Bower (
                        Bloomington
                    : Studio Indiana, 2008. Pp. 144. Illustrations. Paperbound,
                    $22.00.) These two books depict buildings, most empty and declining, in
                    cities and towns across the state. The fourth and fifth in a series by southern 
                        Indiana
                     photographer John Bower, they are part of Bower's ongoing
                    effort to "capture unsung historical treasures on film." After the Harvest covers the interiors and exteriors of dozens
                    of grain elevators and feed mills. Some are represented by one or two
                    photographs and a simple identifying caption. Others, such as 
                        Beck's
                            Mill
                     in 
                        Washington
                            County
                    , a major restoration project, are accorded several pages and a
                    textual accompaniment. Silent Workplace ranges more widely,
                    picturing workplaces such as stores, barber shops, garages, and banks. The
                    historic importance of manufacturing to 
                        Indiana's
                     economy is shown in Bower's many photographs of buildings
                    where furniture, sewing machines, bricks, beer, milk, and limestone, among other
                    products, were created or processed. Bower's photographs may prompt
                    readers to consider the buildings that are disappearing or already lost along
                    their own country lanes, and in their small towns and cities.
                An Army in Skirts The World War II Letters of Frances
                        DeBra By Frances DeBra Brown (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2008. Pp. ix, 264.
                    Illustrations, index. $27.95.) Frances DeBra Brown offers an insightful
                    addition to the impressive accumulation of scholarship regarding World War II.
                    Much like James 
                        INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, 105 (March 2009) C 2009, Trustees of
                            Indiana University.
                    
                    Madison's Slinging
                        Donuts for the Boys (2008), she presents an alternate voice of the
                    women who served in the war. As a member of the Women's Army Corps
                    during 1944 and 1945, the 
                        Danville
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , native was stationed in Europe during two key years of the war.
                    Collected here, the letters, photographs, and personal sketches she wrote and
                    compiled over that time open a fascinating ground-level window on the history of
                    the conflict. Brown adds to that view, however, placing her wartime words in
                    wider historical context by providing concise, informative introductions and
                    explanations throughout. As a result, this work should find a home on the
                    bookshelves of scholars, history buffs, and anyone interested in the array of
                    personal experiences of Americans during World War II.
                The Artists of 
                            Brown
                                County
                         A DVD Produced by Lyn Letsinger-Miller (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2007. 30 minutes. $14.95.) Issued
                    as a companion to the republished book of the same title, this film is
                    recommended to all who are interested in the history of regional American art.
                    After introducing 
                        Brown County
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , at the turn of the twentieth century, the film gives a brief
                    history of how this rural county became home to so many artists. The producer
                    uses period photographs and paintings by fifteen of the "core"
                    artists of the colony, including Adolph and Ada Shulz, T. C. Steele, and Gustave
                    Baumann. The film sketches the rise of the art colony, its gradual decline
                    through the 1950s and 1960s, the subsequent rise of the county as a tourist
                    attraction, and the rediscovery of the artists in the 1970s and 1980s.
                Bloodroot
                        
                            Indiana
                         Poems By Norbert Krapf. Photographs by David
                    Pierini (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2008. Pp. xix, 282. Illustrations.
                    Paperbound, $24.95.) Anyone who doubts that poetry can reveal the history
                    of a person or a place should read the collected poems of 
                        Indiana
                     poet laureate Norbert Krapf. Almost 200 poems, written over a
                    35-year period, speak to growing up among the small towns and farms of the
                    Hoosier countryside. Krapf imagines the experiences of a wide variety of
                    Hoosiers, including the first white pioneers arriving in the forests of 
                        Indiana
                     territory, a Civil War veteran, and a fan who dreams of becoming
                    Peyton Manning's receiver. David Pierini's evocative
                    photographs illustrate many of the poems.
                
                Conversations in the Abbey Edited by Ruth Clifford
                    Engs (
                        Saint
                            Meinrad
                    , 
                        Ind.
                    : Saint Meinrad Archabbey, 2008. Pp. x, 369. Illustrations, notes.
                    Paperbound, $18.95.) The book reproduces interviews with eleven of the
                    senior monks (longtime residents, ranging in age from 76 to 106 years) at the
                    Benedictine Archabbey of 
                        St.
                            Meinrad
                     in southern 
                        Indiana
                    . Each chapter comprises an interview with one monk. Topics include
                    their childhood and religious upbringing (if any); the variety of their work as
                    monks (including teaching, tending the abbey vineyard and winery, working the
                    abbey farm, acting as a librarian, and working for the Abbey Press); the
                    influences of Vatican II and subsequent church reforms; and the changing and
                    unchanging aspects of monastic life. Anyone interested in the contemporary
                    history of American Catholicism and of monastic movements will be interested by
                    this volume.
                The Farmers' Market Book Growing Food, Cultivating
                        Community By Jennifer Meta Robinson and J. A. Hartenfeld (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2007. Pp. 288. Illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. Paperbound, $19.95.) Anyone who has experienced the
                    particular atmosphere of a local farmers' market - buying local produce
                    on a warm summer morning or a cold autumn day - will appreciate this work.
                    Trying to capture and explain that atmosphere, the authors have also expanded
                    upon the history of and the need for such community-based markets. Focusing on 
                        Bloomington
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , they relay anecdotes, accompanied by photographs, of veteran
                    market-goers and emphasize the sense of family shared by consumers and
                    producers.
                Fighting for Equality A Life of May Wright Sewall By
                    Ray E. Boomhower (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2007. Pp. 160. Illustrations,
                    bibliography, index. $17.95.) Part of the growing IHS biographical series
                    for young readers, this volume examines the life of Hoosier temperance and
                    suffrage reformer May Wright Sewall. Sewall is profiled here from her early age
                    through the decades of her public work. Through Sewall's life, young
                    readers will learn about nineteenth-century middle- and upper-class women -
                    their clubs, their benevolent and reform associations, their prospects for
                    education, and the fight by some for the right to vote. Sewall's life
                    story also sheds light on the peace movement during World War I and on the
                    American fascination with spiritualism, a practice to which Sewall turned in her
                    late life. The book is extensively illustrated and concludes with suggestions
                    for further research.
                
                Going Over All the Hurdles A Life of Oatess Archey By
                    John A. Beineke (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 2008. Pp. x, 137. Illustrations,
                    bibliography, index. $17.95.) John Beineke's portrait of Oatess
                    Archey-Marion, 
                        Indiana's
                     first African American sheriff - is an inspiring and entertaining
                    read. In this installment of the IHS's young reader biography series,
                    Archey overcomes discrimination to become a state high school champion in track,
                    an FBI agent, a teacher, and finally a sheriff. In a time when society would
                    have restricted him, Archey conquered obstacles by the virtue of perseverance.
                    Beineke, a former student of Archey, manges to navigate complex racial issues
                    and social tensions in a mature but accessible way that will appeal to grown-up
                    readers and won't leave young readers puzzled.
                Historic Photos of 
                            Fort
                                Wayne
                         Text and captions by Scott Bushnell (
                        Nashville
                    , 
                        Tenn.
                    : Turner Publishing Company, 2007. Pp. x, 204. Illustrations, notes.
                    $39.95.) The editor and publisher have culled several photographic archives
                    to amass this collection showing the places and people in 
                        Fort
                            Wayne's
                     history. Like many urban photographic histories, the book contains
                    a large number of street scenes and views of various types of buildings. But it
                    also depicts all kinds of people - from 1860s firemen to an 1890s bicycle club
                    of young men to costumed participants in a 1976 Johnny Appleseed festival.
                    Citizens are shown at work, in parades, at baseball games, and in community
                    groups, such as the 1916 YWCA and a 1936 class at the Phyllis Wheatley Social
                    Center. Photographs portray the city during both world wars, with canning drives
                    and troop parades during World War I, and bond and scrap metal drives during
                    World War II. The editor has highlighted the importance of 
                        Fort
                            Wayne's
                     industries, including Wayne Knitting Mills, International
                    Harvester, and General Electric.
                Historic Photos of 
                            Indianapolis
                         Text and captions by George Hanlin (
                        Nashville
                    , 
                        Tenn.
                    : Turner Publishing Company, 2006. Pp. x, 206. Illustrations, notes.
                    $39.95.) Hanlin provides a wide-ranging look at life in the state capitol,
                    from an 1866 photograph of a steamship on the White River to a 1960s skyview of Christmas lights on
                    Monument Circle. His selection of photographs includes the usual street scenes
                    and well-known buildings, but also encompasses many interesting interior shots,
                    including an early twentieth-century vaudeville production at the Empire
                    Theater; waitresses in the Ayres Tea Room in 1905; women workers packing
                    vaccines at Eli Lilly in 1919; families sending troops off to World War I from
                    Union Station; children playing at a
                    Lutheran orphans' home; and other scenes of everyday life. Photographs
                    of child laborers, including a group shot of dozens of tiny newsboys, and a 1908
                    photo of cannery employees remind readers of the long history of child labor.
                    One oversight in this otherwise varied collection is that only two photographs
                    present the city's African American community.
                The History of 
                            Indianapolis
                         (
                        Greenwood
                    , 
                        Ind.
                    : Educational Video Group, 2005. 60 minutes.) This audio-visual
                    production follows the creation and early progress of the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Covering the period from the establishment of the new state
                    capital through the Civil War, and concluding with the city's very
                    first car race at the end of the nineteenth century, the two-section video looks
                    at historic events, as well as the city's economic growth and social
                    prosperity. In sixty minutes, the viewer becomes acquainted with the historical
                    roots that make the city what it is today.
                Laughing with Lucy My Life with America's Leading Lady
                        of Comedy By Madelyn Pugh Davis with Bob Carroll Jr. (
                        Cincinnati
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    : Emmis Books, 2005. Pp. 271. Illustrations, index. $19.95.)
                    When one picks up an autobiography written by a member of the creative team that
                    steered one of the funniest television comedies of the twentieth century, one
                    expects a laugh or two, to say the least. What might not be expected are the
                    colorful insights, the historical facts, and the satirical quips that also come
                    in this easy-to-read book. Davis, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     native and IU School of Journalism graduate, describes how her
                    friends, family, and everyday life became inspiration for the "I Love
                    Lucy" scripts that she wrote for twenty years.
                Masterworks from the Indiana University Art Museum By
                    Adelheid M. Gealt et al. Edited by Linda J. Baden (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Art Museum in association with Indiana
                    University Press, 2007. Pp. 363. Illustrations, further readings, notes.
                    Clothbound, $64.95; paperbound, $39.95.) Most students and staff of IU
                    Bloomington are aware of the striking I. M. Pei-designed building that houses
                    the university's art museum. Many, however, remain unaware of the art
                    treasures that lie within. The book begins with a history of the collection,
                    primarily a tribute to the work and the discernment of former art department
                    chair Henry Hope and museum director Thomas Solley. Chapters - organized by
                    geographic area with text and captions by museum curators - survey the
                    museum's collections from Africa; ancient 
                        Egypt
                    , the Near East, and 
                        Greece
                     and 
                        Rome
                    ; Asia; pre-Columbian 
                        America
                    ; the South Pacific;  and the
                    West (divided into pre- and post-1800 chapters). Each featured object is
                    accorded one page of text and a one-page color illustration. Even a glance
                    through this volume should prompt a visit to the galleries.
                
                        
                            Monticello
                        
                     By W. C. Madden (
                        Charleston
                    , 
                        S.C.
                    : Arcadia Publishing, 2007. Pp. 128. Illustrations. Paperbound, $19.95.)
                    The Aurora Farmers Fair 100 Years By Jenny Awad
                    (Charleston, S.C.: Arcadia Publishing, 2008. Pp. 128. Illustrations. Paperbound, $19.95.)
                    
                        
                            Martinsville
                        
                     By Joanne Ratz Stuttgen and Curtis Tomak (Charleston, S.C.:
                    Arcadia Publishing, 2008. Pp. 128. Illustrations, index. Paperbound,
                    $19.95.) Three more offerings from Arcadia bring before readers the towns
                    of 
                        Monticello
                    , 
                        Aurora
                    , and 
                        Martinsville
                    . 
                        
                            Monticello
                        
                    , introduced by the town's mayor, includes a brief historical
                    introduction to each chapter and informative captions. Photographs cover
                    important buildings, events, and people - at work, at the barbershop, at the
                    city swimming pool, attending school. Two late chapters focus on the devastation
                    left behind by a 1974 tornado and on the history of a popular summer resort,
                    Indiana Beach. The Aurora Farmers Fair covers the history of
                    the fair in five chapters. The period from the 1950s onward is over-represented,
                    and photographs of floats and queens begin to look the same from year to year,
                    but readers will still enjoy this glimpse into small-town life. 
                        
                            Martinsville
                        
                    , part of the publisher's Postcard History series, devotes three
                    of its seven chapters to the first half of the twentieth century, when several
                    local health sanitariums operated around the town's mineral spring.
                    Photos of guests lounging on green lawns, and of the luxurious dining rooms and
                    bathing rooms, recapture a lost era in the town's history.
                New Faces at the Crossroads The World in Central 
                            Indiana
                         By John Sherman and Jeffrey A. Wolin (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2007. Pp. x, 94. Illustrations,
                    bibliography, index. $29.95.) This handsome and informative book is the
                    product of a collaboration between author John Sherman and
                    photographer/interviewer Jeffrey A. Wolin. Comprising a collection of individual
                    portraits of recent central 
                        Indiana
                     immigrants - both photographic and written - and bookended by
                    interesting analyses of the increasingly international population of central 
                        Indiana
                    , the book offers an enjoyable read. More importantly, however, the
                    ground-level perspectives and immigration discussion that the authors present
                    should urge readers to think about twenty-first century
                    "globalism" as it plays out in the Hoosier state.
                
                Plain Diversity Amish Culture & Identities By
                    Steven M. Nolt and Thomas J. Meyers (
                        Baltimore
                    : Johns Hopkins University Press, 2007. Pp. x, 241. Illustrations,
                    tables, figures, maps, appendix, notes, bibliography, index. $48.00.) The
                    authors set out to prove that no single entity can be identified as
                    "the Amish." Using interviews, fieldwork, and an extensive
                    bibliography of sources, they have produced an in-depth study of the twenty
                    Amish settlements in the state of 
                        Indiana
                    , from northeastern 
                        LaGrange
                            County
                     to southwestern 
                        Daviess
                            County
                    . They consider Amish variety through the lenses of four categories:
                    migration, ordnung (a "way of ordering
                    life"), ethnicity, and cultural context. Through histories,
                    contemporary stories, detailed maps and tables, and photographs, the authors
                    paint a portrait of what they call "diverse Amish worlds"
                    within a single tradition.
                Spinning Through Clouds Tales from an Early Hoosier
                        Aviator By Max E. Knight (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2008. Pp. ix, 208.
                    Illustrations, bibliography, index. Paperbound, $19.95.) This book
                    introduces young adult readers to the adventure (and danger) of early aviation
                    in 
                        Indiana
                    . Author Knight began flying in 1936 at the age of ten, when his
                    father created a dirt strip airport on his farm near Lynn and purchased a
                    biplane. Many of 
                        Indiana's
                     aviation pioneers stopped by the Knight airstrip, sharing their
                    skills with young Max. He took all of this information and encouragement to
                    heart, embracing flying as a hobby - one that lasted almost 45 years. In Spinning Through Clouds, Knight relates his personal flight
                    experiences and places them in the context of American general and commercial
                    aviation history.
                Studebaker The Complete History By Patrick
                    Foster (
                        Minneapolis
                    , 
                        Minn.
                    : Motorbooks, 2008. Pp. 192. Illustrations, index. $40.00.) A
                    book for the coffee table or library of almost any auto enthusiast, Patrick
                    Foster's Studebaker: The Complete History provides an
                    interesting, comprehensive look into the venerable manufacturing company and its
                    prod- ucts. Running the gamut from Studebaker's early days as a wagon
                    manufacturer and closing with the final chapter of the company's
                    existence in 1970, Foster's work is driven by a wealth of interesting
                    stories, lush photographs, and an attention to detail that bring the company and
                    its cars back to life.
                
                Album Quilts of 
                            Ohio's
                         Miami Valley By Sue C. Cummings (
                        Athens
                    : Ohio University Press, 2008. Pp. xiii, 128. Illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. Paperbound, $19.95.) The third in a series about
                    historic 
                        Ohio
                     quilts, this volume looks at more than two dozen distinctive and
                    stunningly beautiful album quilts, all produced within a relatively small area
                    in the state's southwestern Miami River valley from the 1880s through
                    the 1910s. The author's research enabled her to locate the family
                    history of many of the quilts' early owners. The book details their
                    lives and these unique quilts.
                
                            Chancellorsville
                         and the Germans Nativism, Ethnicity, and Civil War
                        Memory By Christian B. Keller (
                        New
                            York
                    : Fordham University Press, 2007. Pp. xii, 224. Maps, illustrations,
                    notes, bibliography, index. $65.00.) Although the 11th Corps of the Army of
                    the Potomac in May 1863 had relatively few midwestern soldiers, any reader
                    interested in the history of ethnic troops, in particular German American
                    troops, in the Civil War should read this volume. Keller, using heretofore
                    unused German-language source, argues that the Battle of Chancellorsville, one
                    of the Confederacy's greatest victories, became "the key event
                    of the nineteenth century for the nation's largest ethnicity"
                    (p. 9). The author begins by setting German Americans within the context of
                    1850s nativism. He then looks at German Americans in the Union ranks before
                    Chancellorsville; offers a detailed chapter on the battle itself and on the
                    conduct of the Union's 11th Corps when confronted by the clearly
                    superior forces of Stonewall Jackson; studies how the "overall
                    morale" of the Northern Army and civilians was restored after the
                    battle "at the expense of" German soldiers; reads the German
                    American community's reaction in newspapers and family correspondence;
                    and finally considers how the memory of Chancellorsville affected German
                    American assimilation for the rest of the nineteenth century.
                The Christian College A History of Protestant Higher Education
                        in America By William C. Ringenberg. 2nd ed. (
                        Grand
                            Rapids
                    , 
                        Mich.
                    : Baker Academic, 2006. Pp. 316. Appendices, notes, index.
                    Paperbound, $21.99.) This update of a 1984 book chronicles the history of
                    Protestant colleges in the 
                        United States
                    . The author has added a chapter on the growth of such colleges in
                    the last two-plus decades, as well as a new epilogue, and church historian Mark
                    Noll has written a new introduction.
                
                "Circumstances are Destiny" An Antebellum
                        Woman's Struggle to Define Sphere By Tina Stewart
                    Brakebill (
                        Kent
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    : Kent State University Press, 2006. Pp. xx, 255. Illustrations,
                    notes, bibliography, index. $34.95.) Brakebill reconstructs and interprets
                    the life of Celestia Rice Colby through her private journals and published
                    writings. Born in 
                        Ohio
                     in 1827, Colby spent her life as part of the rural midwestern
                    middle class, marrying in 1848 and bearing five children. Although she lived her
                    life in the traditional sphere of the home, Colby's writings, which
                    increasingly focused on the equal status of men and women, advocated an
                    alternate, future reality.
                A Concise History of 
                            Kentucky
                         By James C. Klotter and Freda C. Klotter (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of Kentucky, 2008. Pp. xiii, 238. Maps,
                    illustrations, appendices, bibliography, index. Clothbound, $30.00; paperbound,
                    $19.95.) Intended as a "concise, readable, and affordable
                    introductory history," the book is divided into twelve chapters, with
                    the chronological and the topical (including government, education, and the
                    arts) interspersed. Adapted from a textbook, the volume retains sentence
                    structure and vocabulary that make it suitable for classroom use and for easy
                    general reading. The book also includes a generous helping of maps,
                    illustrations, topical sidebars, and appendices, as well as a scant
                    bibliography.
                Founded by Friends The Quaker Heritage of Fifteen American
                        Colleges and Universities Edited by John W. Oliver Jr., Charles L.
                    Cherry, and Caroline L. Cherry (
                        Lanham
                    , 
                        Md.
                    : Scarecrow Press, 2007. Pp. xxi, 290. Illustrations,
                    bibliographies, notes, index. $29.75.) After an informative introduction by 
                        Indiana
                    -based historian Thomas Hamm on the characteristics and history of
                    Quaker education in the 
                        U.S.
                    , the essayists collected in this volume consider fifteen
                    historically Quaker colleges and universities, spread from the East to the West
                    coasts. Hoosier readers will be particularly interested in Hamm's
                    chapter on Earlham College.
                Level Playing Fields How the Groundskeeping Murphy Brothers
                        Shaped Baseball By Peter Morris (
                        Lincoln
                    : University of Nebraska Press, 2007. Pp. xxi, 184. Illustrations,
                    notes, bibliography, index. $24.95.) Baseball historian Peter
                    Morris's lively and engaging book works on a variety of levels. Morris
                    explores the lives and work of brothers Tom and Jack Murphy, professional
                    baseball groundskeepers at the turn of the twentieth century. Morris offers an interesting ground-level perspective on an
                    under-explored strata of the early days of professional baseball. Through the
                    course of his book, however, Morris simultaneously throws an interesting light
                    on larger historical issues as diverse as the closing frontier, increasing
                    urbanization, changing national identity, immigrants and immigration, and the
                    importance of landscape, space, and place to American culture. Thoroughly
                    researched and footnoted with an impressive display of primary and secondary
                    sources, and accompanied by a solid bibliography, Level Playing
                        Fields is a definite hit.
                A Life is More Than a Moment The Desegregation of 
                            Little
                                Rock's
                         Central High By Will Counts. Essays by Ernest Dumas
                    and Robert S. McCord (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2007. Pp. xviii, 83. Illustrations.
                    Paperbound, $19.95.) Will Counts taught at the IU School of Journalism for
                    more than thirty years, but grew up in 
                        Little
                            Rock
                    , 
                        Arkansas
                    , where he worked for the Arkansas Democrat during
                    the years 1957 to 1960. Counts photographed the tense and violent beginnings of
                    the desegregation of the 
                        Little
                            Rock
                     public schools. This 50th anniversary collection of his photographs
                    also includes introductory historical essays, and Counts's detailed
                    accounts of the events of those days and of his 1997 return to Little Rock
                    Central High.
                Trench Warfare Under Grant & Lee Field Fortifications
                        in the Overland Campaign By Earl J. Hess (
                        Chapel
                            Hill
                    : University of North Carolina Press, 2007. Pp. xviii, 313.
                    Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $39.95.)This volume continues
                    Hess's earlier look at one aspect of the engineering of the Civil War,
                        Field Armies and Fortifications in the Civil War: The Eastern
                        Campaign, 1861-1864 (2005). Readers interested in learning more about
                    Hoosier soldiers will find that three 
                        Indiana
                     regiments figure in a chapter on Cold Harbor during June 1864.
                    Those who visit historic battlefields with an interest in the design and
                    construction of field fortifications should take along a copy of the
                    author's appendix, a detailed examination - with diagrams - of several
                    sites.
            
            
            
                CORRECTIONS
                Thomas M. Spencer's review of Carl E. Kramer's This Place We Call Home: A History of 
                            Clark
                                County
                        , 
                            Indiana
                        , which appeared in the December 2008 IMH, attributes 
                        Clark
                            County's
                     name to "William Rogers Clark." The
                    county's true namesake, as IMH readers will recognize
                    and as Kramer's book makes clear, is George Rogers Clark. The editors
                    apologize for the error.
                We erroneously described Dr. Elsie Meyers's memoir - a portion of which
                    appeared in the December 2008 issue - as "self-published." It
                    is as yet unpublished. Dr. Frank Forry, referenced in the article as a histology
                    and neuroanatomy teacher, was a pathologist and should have been identified
                    accordingly.
                Marjorie Randon Hershey's article, "The Whole World was
                    Watching ... Again," which also appeared in our December issue,
                    contained a factual error that was not of the author's making: the
                    correct date of Lyndon Johnson's announced withdrawal, as Dr. Hershey
                    points out, was March 31, not "March 3," 1968.
            

        
        
            
            
            
            
        
    
