
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 26, Issue 2, pages 77-175. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:26+issue:2+year:1930&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            Albert J. Beveridge: Biographer
            BY RICHARD ARNOLD TILDEN
            
            Albert J. Beveridge, lawyer, politician, public speaker and historian, died on April 27, 1927, and
                    left as his contribution to American History two biographies, the second only partially finished.
                    Some critics have acclaimed him a great lawyer and politician, some a scientific historian, and
                    others a genius, whose most surprising gift was his ability as an author. It is the purpose of this
                    paper to determine, if possible, the methods which he used in the writing of his well-known and
                    well-received biographies.
            Perhaps the strongest influences in the works of Mr. Beveridge were the result of his pre-literary
                    life and training. From youth, he was surrounded by conditions which influenced his later work. Born
                    October 6, 1862, his boyhood was spent on the farm, first in 
                        Ohio
                     and later in 
                        Illinois
                    . His early schooling was interrupted by the necessity of supporting himself, as a farm
                    hand, on a railroad, and in a lumber camp.
            In 1878, Beveridge began his more advanced education in the high school at Sullivan, 
                        Illinois
                    , graduating in 1881. It was at this time that he received a gift that probably changed
                    the whole course of his life. A friendly merchant recognizing what he thought to be ability, offered
                    to give the boy sufricient money to finance one year at college, an offer that was readily accepted.
                    DePauw University at 
                        Greencastle
                    , Indiana, became the scene of his future study.
            His main field of activity while at college was oratory and debate, beginning in his first year with
                    the winning of a twenty-five dollar prize for delivering the best oration of any member of the
                    Freshman class. His success continued, and with the aid of the prizes won, a few odd jobs, and
                    summer  earnings, he was able to complete his college course,
                    graduating in 1885.1
            
            After spending a year in the West, presumably to gain experience and regain his health, Beveridge
                    settled in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana, where, with the firm of MacDonald, 
                        Butler
                     and 
                        Mason
                    , he began the study of law. He advanced with reasonable rapidity in the law, first
                    becoming managing clerk of the law firm with which he was associated, and later, in 1889, opening
                    his own law office.2
            
            He avoided as much as possible the less important things at which a lawyer might work and instead
                    sought a part, no matter how meager, in larger cases. The number of these was not great, but he
                    showed a surprising ability in grasping the questions which had weight with the court or jury. In
                    one case where the evidence of guilt seemed overwhelming, he practically admitted this, but, by a
                    brief sermon upon the text, "the quality of mercy is not strained," induced the
                    jury to let his client, a young man, go free.3
            
            His political life and reputation were founded in 1884, while yet a student, by his speeches and work
                    for James G. Blaine, then a candidate for president on the Republican ticket.4
                    His recognized ability as a forceful speaker, and the ease with which he appealed to the rank and
                    file of voters made him a popular and efficient representative of the Republican state organization
                    and gained for him, in time, some prominence in the party throughout the state.
            By the end of 1898, the prestige of Mr. Beveridge was very considerable—had indeed risen
                    to such a point that his friends and associates begged him to become an active candidate for the 
                        United States
                     Senate.5 He was elected to that position by the Indiana
                    legislature, on January 17, 1899.
            Mr. Beveridge entered the political arena just at the time when the question of the disposition of
                    the territory conquered in the Spanish War was assuming importance in the public mind. He was a
                    staunch admirer of the British, and especially of the British Empire, and saw in the existing
                    situation a chance to further extend the power and benefits of Anglo-Saxon civilization. He
                    declared: "We are the trustees of the 
                  
                     1 DePauw University, Records, 1881-1885.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 11, 1899.
                  
                     3
                            Review of Reviews, XLII, 430.
                  
                     4
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 11. 1899.
                  
                     5
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, November 28, 1898.
               
                     world's progress; the guardians of its righteous peace.
                    The judgment of the Master is upon us; ‘Ye have been faithful over a few things; I will
                    make you ruler over many things.’ "6
            
            Without knowing a great deal about the situation, Senator Beveridge formulated a definite plan. In 
                        Philadelphia
                    , on February 2, 1899, he expressed his views to the public: "Civil government
                    is to be perfected in Porto Rico, 
                        Cuba
                    , is to be annexed because it is to our interest to do so, even if the Cubans do not
                    wish it and are capable of self-government. The 
                        Philippines
                     are ours forever. Let faint hearts, if they wish anoint their fears with the thought
                    that some day American administration there may end. But it will never end. It is our duty to govern
                    and administrate for it. We are a part of a movement of a race, the most masterful race of history,
                    and race movements are not to be stayed by the hand of man."7
            
            Having announced his policy, Senator Beveridge left immediately for the Far East to gather the
                    necessary facts in regard to the 
                        Philippines
                     to support his policy in the Senate. Upon his return to the States he refused to
                    divulge the facts that he had collected, feverishly awaiting the opening of Congress.
            The momentous day, for which he was anxiously waiting, came on January 9, 1900, barely one month
                    after his taking the oath of office.8 Shortly after noon, Senator Beveridge
                    arose in the Senate, addressing, it is claimed, every Senator in 
                        Washington
                    , most of the Representatives, and a full gallery. His oration, lasting well over three
                    hours, was one of the most impassioned pleas for imperialism, backed by one of the most one-sided
                    arguments, ever heard in the Senate Chamber. "We will not renounce our part in the mission
                    of our race, trustee, under God, of the civilization of the world," the young and
                    unsophisticated Senator declaimed, and closed with this plea: 
                        President and Senators, accept the plan offered that peace may quickly come and that we may
                            begin our saving, regenerating, uplifting work. Adopt it and this blood-shed will cease when
                            the deluded children of our islands learn that this is the final decision of the
                            representatives in Congress assembled. Reject it and the world, history, and the American
                            people will know where to forever fix the responsibility for the consequences. How dare we
                            delay when our soldier's blood is flowing.9
                  
                    
                
            
               
                  6
                        Congregational Record, 56 Cong. 1 Sess., XXXIII, Pt. I. 711.
               
                  7
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, February 16, 1899.
               
                  8
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Press, January 9. 1900; Congressimal Record, 56 Cong., 1
                        Sess., XXXIII. Pt. I, 705.
               
                  9
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Press, January 9, 1900.
            
            
            His speech was not well received. Laymen and politicians, Republicans and Democrats, all criticized
                    him, but he persisted in further antagonizing them in the advocacy of his beliefs. On March 22, he
                    made an address favoring free trade with our island possessions, which, because of its impolitic
                    nature, secured for the young Republican leader from Indiana the ire of his party, and for a short
                    time forced him to retire from active participation in controversial matters.
            By 1902, the young Senator had re-instated himself in the good graces of his party through his
                    ultra-Republican work as a member of the Committee on Territories. During the next few years, under
                    the, leadership of President Roosevelt, he associated with the progressive wing of the Republican
                    party. In 1909, he became definitelyan insurgent, voting with a small group of Republican Senators
                    against the Payne-Aldrich Tariff Bill. With Beveridge as a candidate to succeed himself in the
                    Senate, the Republicans lost control of the Indiana legislature following the election of 1910, the
                    result being his retirement. In 1912, he was defeated as a candidate for Governor on the Progressive
                    ticket, and again in 1914, he lost when a candidate for the 
                        United States
                     Senate.
            We have briefly viewed Beveridge the youth, the student, the public speaker, the lawyer and the
                    politician. In all of these roles his tenacity, his partizanship, his semi-idealism, his fluent,
                    though florid oratory, his unwavering and unbroken devotion and support of that particular policy
                    uppermost in his mind at any one time, portrays the man as he was, a lawyer without sustained
                    interest in his profession and a gifted politician. Later, it will be seen that his legal and
                    political training, with the habits of thought that they brought with them, the unconscious bias,
                    strengthened through constant legal and political use, the ingrained desire to support one
                    contention or one hypothesis, at the expense of all others, even without adequate proof, has
                    sometimes seriously affected the historical value of what would otherwise have been of far greater
                    worth.
            Beveridge made his first literary venture in 1904, with the publication of a volume on political
                    conditions in the Far East, a volume entitled The Russian Advance. This was
                    followed in 1906 by The Young Man in the World; in 1908, by The
                        Meaning of the Times, a collection of speeches, and Americans of Today.
                    In 1915 he published What is Back of the War. In  all of these writings Mr. Beveridge's legal and political training is clearly evidenced,
                    and his defense of a single contention adds somewhat to their attractiveness, but also mars their
                    usefulness.
            His reputation as an American historian is not based on these earlier efforts in the least, but
                    entirely on his two biographies, The Life of John Marshall, and Abraham Lincoln, 1809-1858. The first two volumes of his Life of John
                        Marshall were published in 1916, the second two in 1919, and Abraham Lincoln,
                        1809-1858, in two volumes in 1928, the year following his death.
            Beveridge intended his second biography to be a sort of companion to the first, the two to be the
                    "institutional interpretation of America weaving it about the life and career of"
                    Marshall and Lincoln. It was his aim in the two works to have "covered the subject from
                    colonial days to the end of the War of Secession,"10 but death cut the
                    second biography short at the year 1858. He chose these two men for the central theme of his
                    interpretation because they were, to him, the outstanding figures of the periods.
            He wrote when describing Marshall: 
                        We must imagine a man very much like Abraham Lincoln.
                        … Marshall and Lincoln were equally good politicians; but although both were
                            conservative in their mental processes, Marshall lost faith in the people's
                            steadiness, moderation, and self-restraint, and came to think that impulse rather than
                            wisdom was too often the tem-porary moving power in the popular mind; while the confidence
                            of 
                                Lincoln
                             in the good sense, righteousness, and self-control of the people became greater
                            as his life advanced. If, with these distinctions, Abraham Lincoln were, in imagination,
                            placed upon the Supreme Bench during the period we are considering, we should have a good
                            idea of John Marshall as Chief Justice of the 
                                United States
                            .11
                  
                    
                
            Beveridge, as a writer of history, began his work under a serious handicap. Unlike the majority of
                    the great American historians, he had not studied history intensively, nor had he had any training
                    in the writing of history. It is true that he had received a college education from a small and
                    probably biased Methodist institution in which had been emphasized not the social sciences, but
                    rather the classics and the art of public speaking. He had never had the advantage of graduate work
                        
                  
                     10
                            Abraham Lincoln, 1809-1858, I, v.
                  
                     11
                            The Life of John Marshall, IV. 93.
               
                     at a larger university nor the opportunity of studying
                    historical criticism, yet he wished "not to be thought less thorough, less accurate, or
                    less scientific than any historical doctor of them all. Therefore he spared no pains in ransacking
                    all the libraries for material, printed and unprinted, bearing on his subject; he studied, sifted,
                    and arranged all this material with much system; and in his presentation, he forestalled all
                    reasonable criticism by giving chapter and verse for almost everything he ventured to
                        say."12 Further, he religiously attended the meetings of various
                    historical associations that he might learn of the methods and attitudes of historians through
                    personal contact.
            In a magazine article, "The Making of a Book,"13 Mr. Beveridge
                    attempted to tell of the method by which biography must be written. "Before the story can
                    be told or even planned," he asserted, "the facts—and all of the facts,
                    little and big—must be gathered concerning every character small and great. And you
                    must," he added, "be sure that all these data are truthful. You must be able to
                    prove, arld must prove, every statement."14
            
            In this declaration, Mr. Beveridge stated the essence of historical writing, and his own industry was
                    attested, yet in his historical work he did not always rigidly follow the simple but exacting
                    formula which he himself deemed necessary to the writing of biography.
            Contrary to a somewhat popular belief, Mr. Beveridge did most of his own research work. "He
                    was tireless in reading collections of papers still unpublished, in carefully going through files of
                    newspapers preserved in many and widely separated cities, seeking the fact and coloring of the
                    narrative" that lie used so skillfully and convincingly. In his own words, he stated the
                    value which he placed upon such minute research: 
                        Facts when justly arranged interpret themselves. They tell the story. For this purpose a
                            little fact is as important as what is called a big fact. The picture may be well-nigh
                            finished, but it remains vague for want of one more fact.
                        When the missing fact is discovered all others become clear and 
                        
                           12
                                    Nation. CIV, 132.
                        
                           13
                                    Saturday Evening Post, CXCIX, 14-16. October 23, 1926.
                        
                           14
                                    Ibid., 184
                     
                             distinct; it is like turning a light, properly shaded,
                            upon a painting which but a moment before was a blur in the dimness15
                  
                    
                
            A large amount of his material was taken from manuscript sources. In the first chapter of his Abraham Lincoln, 1809-1858, containing one hundred and seventy-four footnotes to
                    thirty-seven pages of text, there are over seventy references to manuscript sources, and forty-four
                    to other primary material, including family bibles, court records, newspapers, autobiographies, and
                    state statutes. The remainder of his references are to monographs and other recognized secondary
                    writings. In one footnote given in support of the paternity of Nancy Hanks, five manuscript sources,
                    two monographs, and one court record are cited.
            But careful as Mr. Beveridge was of his citations and of having an adequate foundation for all of his
                    statements, he is not superior to criticism. Mere citations to authority do not in any way prove the
                    validity of the source used, and quite often a reference is made to a totally unreliable source. Mr.
                    Beveridge, in attempting to establish authority for his statements, has frequently trusted too
                    wholeheartedly in a supposed statement of fact found in some contemporary letter or newspaper
                    account. He has not taken the pains, the infinite labor necessary, to be certain of the sources
                    which he cites so carefully.
            In that part of his study of 
                        Lincoln
                     dealing with the creation of a new party and the phenomenal rise of 
                        Lincoln
                     to the presidency, he has limited his sources to the Trumbull correspondence and other
                    local 
                        Illinois
                     material, without attempting to verify or check these sources by the use of the
                    correspondence of Chase, McLean, Summer, Welles, and Washburn, all important actors in the drama.
            In seviral distinct places, his lack of adequate sources has caused misstatements of fact. Take, for
                    example, a statement (II, 388) in regard to Buchanan and the Democratic nomination in 1856. He says
                    of that leader: "He did not expect to be nominated, and it is not certain that he wanted
                    the office at that time." To this statement is not added any reference to specific
                    evidence. A brief examination of Buchanan's writings would have shown that the
                    Pennsylvanian carried on 
                  
                     15
                            Abraham Lincoln, I, iv.
               
                     a somewhat lengthy correspondence with the more prominent
                    southern leaders, stating carefully his position as to slavery, and that he was the recipient of
                    detailed letters telling just how his nomination was to be accomplished.16 In
                    this instance, Beveridge has evidently accepted pre-convention Democratic propaganda as the basis
                    for his scientific investigation. A few pages further on is the statement that "the
                    outstanding leaders of the new party, like Seward and Chase, did not want to captain that craft on
                    its trial voyage, and they refused to be candidate."17 "Had
                    Mr. Beveridge gone no further than an investigation of the letters printed in Bancroft's
                        Life of Sewurd
               18 he would have found evidence from
                    Seward's own hand to the effect that he wanted the nomination and was bitterly disappointed
                    when he found that it was not to be his."19 As for Chase, a brief
                    survey of the Chase manuscript for that period would have shown that his ceaseless efforts in
                    forming the Republican Party had only one end in view, to become its leader, and that he, too, was
                    bitterly disappointed when he realized that he could not receive the nomination in 1856.20
            
            Mr. Beveridge has also used as a basic source for his statements the Herndon manuscripts. As a whole,
                    he has used them remarkably well, yet they were early used for the book published in 1872 by C. F.
                    Black; by William H. Herndon, aided by Jesse W. Weik, in preparing his biography of 
                        Lincoln
                    ; and again in 1923 by Weik himself. But having used for the fourth time these well
                    known manuscripts, it is surprising the number of errors that Mr. Beveridge has made, and equally
                    surprising that he did not attempt to verify this source with other trustworthy material.
            Mr. W. E. Barton in a review of the Life of 
                            Lincoln
                        
               , says: 
                        Beveridge accepts at its face value the testimony of John B. Helm and Samuel Haycroft as to
                            Nancy Hanks and the boyhood of Abraham Lincoln. Helm and Haycroft were both honest men, yet
                            Haycroft's first letter to 
                                Lincoln
                             shows that Haycroft thought 
                                Lincoln
                             was the son of Thomas Lincoln by Sarah Bush, and that Haycroft had no
                            recollection of Thomas Lincoln's first wife. Furthermore, it is wholly apparent to
                            the careful student that when these two men recalled those persons who they 
                        
                           16 A. W. Crandall. Review of Abraham Lincoln. 1809-1858 (Mss.). Dr. Crandall is Associate Professor of American History at
                                    DePauw University.
                        
                           17 Beveridge. 
                              
                                            Lincoln
                                        , 11, 394.
                        
                           18
                                    ibid., I, 419-424.
                        
                           19 A. W. Crandal, Review of 
                                        Lincoln
                                     (Mss).
                        
                           20
                                    Ibid.
                     
                             thought were Abraham Lincoln and his mother they really
                            remembered John D. Johnston and Lincoln's stepmother.21
                  
                    
                
            Mr. Beveridge, then, has not only failed on occasion to follow his own formula, "You must be
                    able to prove, and must prove, every statement," but has sometimes done worse, giving to
                    the public unproved statements or information based on unverified or misleading sources. This was
                    not intentional. Possibly it was the result of his legal and political training. To a historian
                    nothing is true until adequately proved, while to the lawyer or the politician his own contention,
                    if enforced by seeming facts, is true until disproved by the opposition. Mr. Beveridge, believing
                    these things, and having some foundation for his belief, stated them as true without attempting to
                    verify the sources used, not because he intended to mislead, for his intention, one must believe,
                    was just the opposite, but because his training, which he never fully overcame, had not required him
                    to do so.
            Some, indeed, might excuse Mr. Beveridge on the ground that exact detail as to background is not
                    necessary to the accurate portrayal of his hero. But if this excuse is accepted, it contradicts the
                    purpose for which the work was written. He strongly expressed his own views in saying that
                    "biography is a fair example of the care one must take with facts and the arrangements of
                    those facts. Facts about the hero only are not enough; indeed they are hardly a beginning. Moreover,
                    taken by themselves, personal incidents, and all of them, that make up the life of any man or woman,
                    do not mean anything. Standing alone, such circumstances actually may mislead. You must take into
                    equal consideration what others said and did, and everything that happened which influenced the hero
                    or heroine."22
            
            The possibility that some primary material might not be accurate and that all sources need a critical
                    examination and verification, when possible, seems not to have been often enough in Mr.
                    Beveridge's thoughts. A "fact" too often seems to mean anything that can
                    be traced to a contemporary source; "proof," a mere citation of that source.
            Some reviewers rather severely criticized Mr. Beveridge's 
                  
                     21 W. E. Barton. "A Noble Fragment", in 
                        Mississippi Valley Historical Review, XXV, 499. Barton
                            wrote Abraham Lincoln and his Books, which came out in 1920. and he has
                            published several volumes and numerous articles pertaining to 
                                Lincoln
                            .
                  
                     22
                            Saturday Evening Post, CXCIX, 182. October 23, 1926.
               
                    
                    
                        
                            Lincoln
                        
                     because of his inclusion of what they believed to be irrelevant material. Nathaniel W.
                        Stephenson23 doubts that the inclusion of the extensive and thoroughly
                    adequate story of the 
                        Kansas
                     episode has in any way helped in the portrayal of 
                        Lincoln
                    , nor does he consider the lengthy account of the Dred Scott case, following it through
                    its complete judicial history, necessary as a background. Mr. Beveridge, however, has put forward
                    his own defense: 
                        Any public person worth writing about is but one character in a great drama. Other
                            characters, some of them hardly less important than the hero himself—in certain
                            acts more prominent than the hero himself—also play their parts; and women, too,
                            come on the stage, and what they say and do often gives meaning and direction to the whole
                            plot. Thus human life moves before us.
                        We see, then, that in reality the story of a public man, to mean anything, to be truthful, or
                            even entertaining, is part of the epic of the nation into which that man's deeds
                            and words were woven durinq the period in which he wrought.24
                  
                    
                
            The most severe criticism, however, is of his exclusions, or perhaps more accurately, of his
                    treatment of various topics, leaving them suspended or presenting only one side of the controversy.
                    In his study of 
                        Lincoln
                    , it is asserted that he has missed the real essentials of the compromise of 1850, and
                    the disputes and beliefs that produced that compromise. Stephenson bemoans the fact that Beveridge,
                    as others, did not realize the distinction between "Unionism" North and South.25 The South in the fifties, Stephenson says, was not concerned about
                    "slavery per se, but that vague sense of independence which we have
                    learned to call self-determination. This is essential to 
                        Lincoln
                    's story because in 1860 it was the clue to Southern action. And Lincoln was
                    unaware of its existence. The failure to lay the foundation of Lincoln's mis-apprehension
                    while treating of 1850, is Mr. Beveridge's one serious fault."26
            
            John Spencer Bassett27 has as severe a criticism of Mr. Beveridge's
                    treatment of Marshall. In the whole of his last two volumes, Mr. Beveridge has ceased to be the
                    historian of the people to become the historian of the man, according to 
                  
                     23
                            American Historical Review, XXXIV, 617. Stephenson published Abraham Lincoln
                  
                  
                     24 "The Making of a Book". in Saturday
                                Evening Post, CXCIX. 182.
                  
                     25
                            American Historical Review, XXXIV, 617.
                  
                     26
                            Ihid., 619.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., XXV, 516.
               
                     Bassett. His "task is to show how the Chief Justice,
                    leading the highest court in the land, set himself against the political tendency of the time and
                    did much to reduce its power." He "should present both sides of the question,
                    showing how events occurred and by what means the opponents justified their position."28 This Mr. Beveridge failed to do, having written his account from the
                    viewpoint of Marshall's friends, leaving out almost entirely the other side of the
                    question.
            "From his first chapter," Bassett continues, "he does not describe in what
                    respect Jefferson considered he was justified in opposing the assumption of power by the Supreme
                    Court; he does not see the conscientious fears of those who opposed the power of the Second 
                        United States
                     Bank; he does not carefully show us why a large number of people loved the states above
                    a strongly centralized government; he does not do Andrew Jackson the justice to believe that he was
                    sincere in his belief that an independent Indian state should be erected within the state of 
                        Georgia
                    ."29 Mr. Beveridge certainly does not include these things
                    in his study, and thereby presents a slightly biased account, yet is was but natural that he omitted
                    them. He recognized them as factors, undoubtedly, but his whole life, at least the major part of it,
                    had been spent in the effort to make the Federal government supreme in all fields of endeavor. With
                    his own political background and beliefs always before him, he could not recognize the supreme
                    importance of the non-federalistic forces of the time with which he was dealing. There was to him
                    only one side, the Federalist. Here his unconscious subjectivity has seriously marred his work.
            A further criticism by Bassett is that concerning Mr. Beveridge's treatment of Aaron Burr.
                    In the first place, Bassett feels that 272 pages out of approximately 1150 is altogether too much
                    space and too much importance to give to Burr. But aside from the allotment of space, Mr. Beveridge
                    may be challenged in regaxd to the validity of his facts. Docnmentary evidence proves that Burr made
                    treasonable propositions to both British and Spanish agents. Alexander Hamilton certainly considered
                    him a man that could not be trusted, Jefferson and Jackson held like opinions, yet Mr. Beveridge
                        
                  
                     28
                            Ibid.
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., 515.
               
                     sets aside this and the suspicions of contemporaries with the
                    statement that until the time that Burr took up his Western project, he had never committed
                    "a thoroughly dishonorable act."30 Furthermore, Mr. Beveridge
                    asserts that Burr had the intention only of invading 
                        Mexico
                     and that 
                        Louisiana
                     did not enter into his speculations. By arriving at this conclusion, Mr. Beveridge has
                    done more than any other historian has been able to accomplish, for the contradictions in
                    Burr's correspondence leave no room for a specific statement of his aims.31
            
            Mr. Beveridge undoubtedly intended to write accurate, objective history, history that contained the
                    facts, coördinately arranged so as to enable the reader to arrive at a clear and decisive
                    understanding of events, but his objectivity, at times, leaves one the impression of having scanned
                    a series of notes, and at other times it has been lost. The desire to set forth "the facts
                    properly arranged," has been a serious handicap for the author to overcome.
            A great many of Mr. Beveridge's mistakes are undoubtedly due to the method that he used in
                    preparing his chapters. He has given us in some detail what he considers the best method of writing:
                        
                        For permanent use that only which has been rewritten often is fit to print. There is nothing
                            harder than to write a plain sentence, nothing so easy as rhetoric. Sometimes, though
                            rarely, it happens that worthy writing is done suddenly and fast; but this is in seeming
                            rather than in reality. Such work is always the final phase of long experience and thought.
                            In most cases what the writer sets down at first is at best merely an outline of what is
                            finally produced.
                        When this sketch has been typed, obvious errors of proportion and crudities of statement
                            appear, and alterations must be made accordingly. After three of four such processes a
                            consecutive and engaging narrative is turned out.
                        Then comes the labor of correcting and enriching this draft by supporting each statement from
                            the mass of data relating to that chapter.
                        It is found that a sentence is not accurate; andcalmost always the correction adds color and
                            sprightliness. Whole paragraphs and sometimes whole pages are wrong. The subconscious mind
                            has put in something taught in childhood and believed for a lifetime. Such paragraphs and
                            pages must be stricken out and the truth put in.
                        This changing and rewriting must be done time and time and time again, in order to set out
                            all the facts, set them out in their true relation 
                        
                           30
                                    Life of John Marshall, 111, 287.
                        
                           31
                                    American Historical Review, XXV. 616.
                     
                             to one another and, above all, to set them out is their
                            just proportion. Moreover, every fact must be proved to be a fact.32
                  
                    
                
            In writing his original draft of any chapter, Mr. Beveridge evidently wrote from memory, without the
                    use of notes or other aids. While his constant revision erased many of the errors of the first
                    draft, as he assured us it would, he undoubtedly missed many mistakes in fact and in treatment which
                    his final draft still contains. Perhaps if Mr. Beveridge had lived to revise once more his
                    manuscript before it was sent to his publishers, many more of its errors would have been corrected.
                    There is not doubt that he worked earnestly, through constantly revising his manuscripts, to correct
                    these errors.
            Worthington C. Ford who did the final work of preparing the 
                        Lincoln
                     volumes for the publisher, makes the following statement: 
                        Having located and obtained what seemed of importance he would write the chapter in its first
                            form, or draft. That was a preliminary stage, for he would work over his material again and
                            again, rewriting the entire chapter many times—a single chapter in the second
                            volume was rewritten fifteen times—until it had taken a shape which appeared to
                            him fairly complets in contents, but still wanting the finish of a last revision. In that
                            form he submitted it to recognized experts in the different phases of the history, asking,
                            or rather urging them to correct misstatements of fact, or wrong inferences, or unconscious
                            bias of treatment.33
                  
                    
                
            In the interval between the publication of his first two volumes on John Marshall and the publication
                    of the two volumes on Abraham Lincoln, Mr. Beveridge made notable progress toward assuming the
                    attitude of an unprejudiced historical scholar. A careful reading of his Marshall
                    reveals no word of sympathy and certainly no understanding of the men opposed to Marshall, who,
                    nevertheless, left a lasting impression on American institutions. This failure to attempt to
                    understand and to give just credit to the ideals and contributions of Marshall's enemies is
                    one of the author's outstanding faults.
            Having been but recently defeated in his own political life, it was, perhaps, too much to ask the
                    author to be charitable to his own enemies, and also too much to ask that he 
                  
                     32 "The Making of a Book", in Saturday
                                Evening Past, CXCIX. 14, 186.
                  
                     33 Statement in Abraham Lincoln. I, v-vi.
               
                     carry that charity with him into his historical endeavors.
                    Believing in himself, as he did, he could not credit his political opponents with an equal
                    sincerity. This lack of understanding and appreciation was carried over into his first biography.
                    Having a sincere and whole hearted admiration for Chief Justice Marshall, Mr. Beveridge accepted the
                    philosophy and beliefs of the jurist seeing no virtue in opposition to them. He did not attempt to
                    justify Jefferson's fear of the power of the Supreme Court; he did not credit Andrew
                    Jackson with sincerity in the desire to create an independent Indian state with in the state of 
                        Georgia
                    . Mr. Beveridge failed, in his Life of John Marshall, to present both
                    sides of the question, and instead, assumed for himself the power to judge right and wrong,
                    sincerity and hypocrisy.
            In his life of Abraham Lincoln, written almost a decade later, Mr. Beveridge revealed that he had
                    made notable pro-gress in his attempt to gain fairness and objectivity. One of his greatest
                    contributions to the history of the period upon which he wrote was not his portrayal of 
                        Lincoln
                    , but his study of Stephen A. Douglas. Mr. Beveridge realized here, as he had failed to
                    do when writing the Life of Marshall, that two men may hold divergent views and
                    yet both be sincere and honest. In fact, he made particular efforts to understand Douglas and his
                    actions. In writing to a friend while preparing his manuscript he said: "What a rotten deal
                    the post-war historians gave Douglas. The treatment of that wonderful man has been outrageous. Even
                    I, in my collateral investigations, find this to be the case."34 Again
                    he wrote: "… I wanted particularly to talk with you about Douglas. The further I
                    go, the bigger he looms. I suppose that he was guilty of the usual politician's
                    sculduggery; but he was the most consistent of all American statesmen, except the old-timers.35
            
            This desire to give Douglas a square deal is a decided contrast to the author's study of
                    Jefferson and Jackson, and is one of the things that makes his study of 
                        Lincoln
                     a far more valuable and worthwhile biography.
            Taken as a whole, Mr. Beveridge has written admirable biographies of two great men. But his
                    contribution to historical 
                  
                     34 Letter of April 17. 1925, from Mr. Beveridse to one of the men who
                            read the manuscript of his Life of Abrahant Lincoln.
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., December 22, 1926.
               
                     writing has not ended there. His minute research and careful
                    study of the lesser incidents have shed a valuable light on the lives of his subjects. "I
                    am distressed and a little bit disgusted to find that the early and middle part of 
                        Lincoln
                    's life never has been done, he stated while at work on the first 
                        Lincoln
                     volume. "This is notably true of 
                        Lincoln
                     in the Legislature and, as I wrote — the other day, I am beginning to have a
                    shuddering fear that I may find the same thing to be true when I reach the great period of his
                        life."36 Mr. Beveridge did not live to justify this fear, but his
                    study of 
                        Lincoln
                     as a young man, and especially when in the 
                        Illinois
                     Legislature, is certainly, as he believed it would be, unique and invaluable.
            Again, in his chapter on 
                        Lincoln
                     as a lawyer, he has made a distinct contribution. In regard to this phase of 
                        Lincoln
                    's life, he made the comment that "All of these cases taken together
                    do not", of course, deserve a line in history and not more than a paragraph in biography,
                    but," he added, "so much sheer rubbish has been written about them that I felt it
                    neces-sary to treat them definitively and clear them up once and for all. You will see that I have
                    written the account of these cases exclusively from the official records, letters, and from
                    statements of eye and ear witnesses."37
            
            Mr. Beveridge has made mistakes in his study of 
                        Lincoln
                     as well as in that of Marshall, but an attitude of fairness and thoroughness, so well
                    expressed in the above excerpt from a letter, has been rigidly adhered to whenever possible. Some of
                    the mistakes, which are not really numerous, might have been corrected, had the author lived to give
                    the chapters the final revision which he deemed so necessary.
            These investigations relating to 
                        Lincoln
                     as a legislator and to 
                        Lincoln
                     as a lawyer are but two of the many minute studies included in Mr. Beveridge's
                    works which raise them far above the average. His careful scrutiny of the less important episodes of 
                        Lincoln
                    's life, his study of the Dred Scott case, of the 
                        Kansas
                     episode, of the trial of Aaron Burr, may not, as some believe, be indispensible to the
                    biography, but to Beveridge, in his "institutional interpretation," they are
                    necessary, 
                  
                     36
                            Zbid., April 17. 1926.
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., January 3, 1926.
               
                     and to the general reader, as well as the scholar they are
                    invaluable.
            A summary of these criticisms, and a discussion of the place of Mr. Beveridge in American biography
                    and history writing would be as unnecessary as it is difficult. It is sufficient to say that his
                    lack of historical training left him sadly defective in his choice and use of source material, and
                    that his legal and political training did not lend itself readily to the unbiased judgment necessary
                    to the historian. A comparison of Senator Beveridge's Speech on the Philipine Islands39 with his two biographies would show a striking similarity of treatment,
                    style, and use of sources.
            Without overlooking any of his faults, Mr. Beveridge deserves a place among the best of the American
                    biographers, and his contention that biography is history and that "the story of a
                    man" is but "part of the epic of the nation," leaves the world his
                    debtor. The surprising thing is not that Mr. Beveridge made mistakes and errors in the selection and
                    use of his sources, in his inclusions and exclusions, and perhaps in his unconscious biases; but
                    that a man with his training and lack of historical method, could have written works, which taken as
                    a whole, are as fair, as clear, and as worthwhile as his biographies. He completed one admirable
                    work, and part of another. The world was the loser when his untimely death deprived it of the later
                    volumes on 
                        Lincoln
                     which he was ready to prepare.
            
               
                  38
                        Congressional Record 56 Cong., 1 Sess., XXXIII. Pt. I, 705-712.
            
         
         
         
            Presbyterianism in 
                        Princeton
                    , Indiana, From 1810 to 19301
            
            By ROBERT ARCHER WOODS
            
            
               
                        Princeton
                     was a well defined settlement in Southwestern Indiana as early as 1802, for in that
                    year Freeman's survey disclosed that the original Indiana treaty line bounding the 
                        Vincennes
                     Tract on the south left "the 
                        Princeton
                     settlement" outside in Indian territory, necessitating another treaty in 1803
                    to include it.2 The town was platted and given a permanent name in honor of
                    Judge William Prince in 1814. It was the first child in Southwestern Indiana of the mothertown of 
                        Vincennes
                    , capital of the Indiana Territory, and was situated on the Red Banks Trail running from
                            
                  Henderson, Kentucky
               , to 
                        Vincennes
                    , and on a feeder of the 
                        Buffalo
                     trace winding through the wilderness from 
                        Vincennes
                     to the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    .
            Since 1789, the Scotch-Irish from 
                        Virginia
                     and the Carolinas, 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Maryland
                    , 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                    , had been busy opening up virgin forest to settlement in this section.3 Soon their old neighbors from East and South flocked in and made homes in close proximity.
                    These, and others like them, were a hardy and sturdy people who possessed 
                  
                     1 The Author was recently persuaded by Judge John E. Iglehart of 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana, to prepare the following article for the Southwestern Indiana
                            Historical Society in session at 
                                Mount Vernon
                            , November l, 1929. Undertaken as a duty the work soon became a labor of love,
                            because of intimate family connections with nearly all of the Presbyterian denominations
                            which, at one time or another, were active in that community. Thomas Archer, my
                            great-grandfather, was one of the two founders and one of the first two elders of the
                            Covenanter Church in 1810; Robert Archer, his father, opened his cabin home for the first
                            observance of the Lord's Supper in that settlement in 1813; William Archer, brother
                            of Thomas, was one of the founders and elders of the 
                                Cumberland
                             Presbyterian Church there in 1817; Samuel Hamilton Woods, my grandfather, was a
                            charter member of the Covenanter Church in 1810; and members of the Archer and Woods
                            families have served as elders in all these bodies ever since the beginning. As elder and
                            clerk of session of the First Presbyterian Church of 
                                Princeton
                            , there are in my possession the session minutes of both the Presbyterian and
                            Cumberland Churches since their organization. All of which, together with my own early
                            experiences in the old Covenanter Church in which I was reared, kindled in my heart many
                            memories and bound the whole subject to me with bands of steel. I am indebted to Judge
                            Iglehart for thrusting this work upon me. In its preparation I am also indebted, in addition
                            to the works cited hereafter, to recollections of my mother. Mrs. Lucilla Archer Woods
                            Miller, now in her 92nd year, who became a member of the old Covenanter Church in 1853.
                  
                     2 George Robert Wilson, "The Birth of a State". in
                                Proceedings of the Southwestern Indiana Historical Society, Indiana
                            Historical Commission, Bulletin No. 16, 1922, 44.
                  
                     3 From 
                                Virginia
                             came John Severn, the first settler, in 1789, the David Rnbb family in 1800,
                            the John Johnson family in 1802, the William Hargrove, Joseph Milburn, and John Hyneman
                            families in 1803, and the Joseph Woods family in 1807; from 
                                South Carolina
                             came the Robert Archer and the Samuel Home families in 1803, and the Robert
                            Stormont family in 1809. The Major Joseph Neely family came from 
                                Pennsylvania
                             in 1803. Most of these families were large, in many cases to the third
                            generation, notably the Archers, Woodses, and Stormonts.
               
                     more intelligence, culture and piety than was usual for new
                    settlers, and whose pride of race and heritage was manifest both in feature and charm of manner. The
                    moral tone of their influence and example has left its impress on their descendants. These
                    Scotch-Irish brought with them their principles, passions and prejudices, together with their
                    old-world religious fervor, abiding inheritances from their homes beyond the sea, from which they
                    had been driven partly because of government restrictions against freedom of worship and church
                    policy.
            Presbyterianism is a system of Church government by presbyters, or elders. This fact distinguishes it
                    from other forms as, the papal, the episcopal, or the congregational. Churches holding to the
                    Presbyterian system are Calvinistic in doctrine, believe in the unconditioned Sovereignty of God,
                    and for the most part accept the Westminister Assembly's Confession of Faith, and the
                    Larger, Shorter and Short Catechisms as embodying their belief. They do not, however, all agree in
                    the interpretation of those standards. From its first establishment, the Presbyterian Church has
                    been a foremost advocate of representative government alike in things civil and religious.
            The story of Presbyterianism in 
                        Princeton
                     is involved in denominational bias and to the uninitiated is a puzzle without a
                    solution, for it has as many facets as the Scotch-Irish who shaped it have predilections. It is
                    veritably the child of that intensely moral, jealous and tenacious people. At one time during the
                    seventies, we find eight Presbyterian groups in 
                        Princeton
                    : one Presbyterian, two United Presbyterian, three Reformed Presbyeterian, one 
                        Cumberland
                     Presbyterian, and one 
                        German
                     Evangelical. Altogether eleven different denominations of the Presbyterian Church
                    existed in 
                        Princeton
                     while yet a town of less than 2500 population. Nowhere else, probably, has there ever
                    been such variety of interpretation of the same standards.
            To understand the nature of the creedal beliefs of these early sects that arose in the 
                        Princeton
                     community, we must delve a little into church history in 
                        Scotland
                     and 
                        Ireland
                    .
            John Knox, born in 1505, educated for the priesthood, but embracing Protestantism about the year
                    1540, is the epitome of tine Scottish Reformation. It was largely through his efforts  that the Scottish Parliament in 1560 cast off the papal yoke and
                    formally established the Protestant religion in 
                        Scotland
                     as a reformed faith, based on Presbyterian principles.
            The persecutions begun by Mary Stuart in 1553 and continued until the time of Charles II in 1661
                    greatly interfered with the free course of this faith, but it courageously fought its way until the
                    reformed Church finally became the Established Church in 
                        Scotland
                    . Prelatical persecution still continued, however, and the privileges grudgingly granted
                    the reformed church were not broad enough to suit many of its adherents. At various times four
                    dissenting bodies separated themselves from the Established Church. In 1706 an independent
                    organization was set up, calling itself the Reformed Presbyterian Church, better known as
                    "Covenanters." A second secession from the Established Church, giving rise to the
                    Associate Presbyterian Church, commonly known as "Seceders," occurred in 1733. It
                    was led by Ebenezer Erskine and other ministers. Both of these withdrawals arose from a desire for
                    larger freedom in doctrine and for the right of each congregation to choose its own ministers, both
                    of which were denied them by the original Covenant between church and state. Two other withdrawals
                    came, the Relief Church in 1749 and the Free Church in 1843, but with these we are not concerned.
            In 1686, owing to the persecutions above mentioned, a stream of immigration set in from the north of 
                        Ireland
                    , of Scots who had migrated thither, which largely swelled the Presbyterian and Reformed
                    Presbyterian (Convenanter and Seceder) population in the Middle and Southern Colonies. The overflow
                    of Scottish population to the northern parts of 
                        Ireland
                    , which took place during the century of persecution in 
                        Scotland
                    , resulted in the formation of what became known as the Scotch-Irish. Traits were
                    combined in happy proportion in the character of this stalwart people. It is indeed true that the
                    denizen of northern 
                        Ireland
                     is inflexible in his adhesion to the tenets and usages of Protestantism. Wherever the
                    name Scotch-Irish has been carried it has come to be regarded as a synonym for the word
                    Presbyterian.
            No race of men has suffered or dared more in the cause of civil and religious liberty, than those
                    whose common name is Scotch-Irish. None have been more persistent in maintaining  freedom in church and state, none have been more thoroughly
                    Presbyterian in doctrine and in practice, than the men of that race whose traditions cluster about
                    the siege of Londonderry and the conventicles of the Covenanters. To them American Presbyterianism
                    is largely indebted for its vigor, tenacity and prosperity. And we may add, the American
                    Presbyterian Church, however denominationally divided, never faltered in her devotion to the cause
                    of Independence of these 
                        United States
                    ; her ministers and members periled all for its support, being ready to die in defense
                    of civil and religious liberty.
            It was thus that the Presbyterian Church of 
                        Scotland
                    , the Reformed Church of 
                        Scotland
                    , called Covenanter, and the Associate Church of 
                        Scotland
                    , called Seceder, came to America, the first after 1686, the second after 1742 and the
                    third after 1758, and established themselves largely in 
                        Virginia
                     and the Carolinas to escape the puritanical persecutions of the 
                        New England
                     Colonies. After the Revolution, in 1782, a partial union of the Reformed and Associate
                    churches gave rise to the Associate Reformed Church. As certain elements did not enter into the
                    union, we have Reformed (Covenanter), Associate (Seceder) and Associate Reformed denominations. The
                    Associate (Seceder) and the Associate Reformed denominations prospered and worked side by side until
                    1858, when they largely combined as the United Presbyterian Church of North America. Those declining
                    to unite, either in 1782 or 1858, still carry on under their former organizations of Reformed
                    (Covenanter), Associate (Seceder), and Associate Reformed.
            The United Presbyterian Church thus formed was stoutly Calvinistic in faith and Presbyterian in order
                    of government. The Psalms of the Bible, in metrical version, became its authorized system of praise.
                    It maintained "close communion" and arrayed itself uncompromisingly against
                    slavery, instrumental music in its worship, and oath-bound secret societies, which it early
                    described as demoralizing to both church and society. The Covenanter and Seceder bodies were then
                    and still remain like-minded.
            On the other hand, the Presbyterians, the plain and un-prefixed variety, based their belief upon the
                    Westminster Confession, as did the Covenanters and Seceders, but without  amendments, and were more liberal in their views. They sang hymns
                    instead of psalms, welcomed instrumental music as anaid in the services of the sanctuary, thought
                    oath-bound secret societies no bar to religion, spread the Communion Table not only for their own
                    members but for all believers, were Catholic in their everyday amusements and were otherwise
                    broad-minded.
            Early Princeton Presbyterianism passed through the vicissitudes of secessions, mergers, and
                    dissolutions similar to the experiences of these earlier groups in the East. The town was strongly
                    Scotch-Irish and Presbyterian, almost whole communities from 
                        South Carolina
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                     being transplanted bodily, and such it remained for nearly a century. The culture and
                    creeds of former days are still in the ascendancy in 
                        Princeton
                     although the coming of the Southern Railway Shops, the coal mining industry and the
                    Heinz Plant has modified, of late years, the dominance of this denomination in numbers. At the time
                    of the early settlement of the region adjacent to the present city of 
                        Princeton
                    , there were several groups of those adhering to the Presbyterian faith: Presbyterians,
                    Reformed Presbyterians (Covenanters), Associate Presbyterians (Seceders), Associate Reformed
                    Presbyterians, 
                        Cumberland
                     Presbyterians and German Evangelical Presbyterians. Out of this confusion finally arose
                    the three bodies of the present time, namely, the United Presbyterian, the First Presbyterian, and
                    the Reformed Presbyterian (Covenanter).
            THE UNITED PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH OF PRINCETON
            In the year 1809 one Samuel Hogue, Sr., who had been a ruling elder in the Seceder Church in Blount
                    county, 
                        Tennessee
                    , and who had a few years previously moved to the locality of 
                        Princeton
                    , returned to 
                        Tennessee
                     and made application for a minister of that denomination to preach in the 
                        Princeton
                     settlement. His request was denied. However, he made the acquaintance of Rev. John
                    Kell, from 
                  Chester, South
                            Carolina
               , a young minister of the Reformed Presbyterian
                    (Covenanter) Church, who promised to visit Indiana at his earliest opportunity. Accordingly in the
                    summer of 1810, he made his first visit. During that visit Samuel Hogue and Thomas  Archer, a former member of the Seceder Church near
                            
                  Chester, South
                            Carolina
               , accepted the faith and practice of Reformed Presbyterian
                    Church, and with their families constituted a "Society" for prayer and religious
                    conversation. This was the foundation of the Reformed Presbyterian (Covenanter) Church in 
                        Princeton
                    . It was this church which, after almost three-quarters of a century of turbulent
                    existence, accepted the principle of nation-wide union of the two denominations and coalesced with
                    the local United Presbyterian Church to form the First United Presbyterian and later the United
                    Presbyterian Church of 
                        Princeton
                    .
            During the second visit of Rev. John Kell in the spring of 1811, Mrs. Hogue and Mrs. Archer joined
                    their husbands in membership. During his third visit, in the autumn of 1813, the Sacrament of the
                    Lord's Supper was observed, for the first time, at the residence of Robert Archer (a
                    Revolutionary soldier and the father of Thomas Archer), who lived one mile north of the present city
                    of 
                        Princeton
                     and immediately west of the Archer Cemetery. On this occasion there were about twenty
                    members present, a number of families having removed to this locality, casting in their lot with
                    this small but substantial society. In the autumn of 1816, Rev. Kell moved from
                    "Beechwoods," now Morning Sun, 
                        Ohio
                    , and settled permanently at 
                        Princeton
                    , being minister for this first Christian flock in Gibson county. In 1817 the Sacrament
                    was served for the second time, in the Hardshell Baptist church, a small log building near the
                    Archer homestead. The membership at this time was about forty.4
            
            By June 1820, the membership had reached fifty, and on June 21, 1820, the Rev. John Kell was formally
                    installed as pastor of the congregation. Upon this occasion the congregation occupied, for the first
                    time, a small frame church which they had succeeded in building. This was the first house of worship
                    of any kind erected in the town of 
                        Princeton
                    . It stood south of the southeast corner of 
                        Broadway
                     and Prince streets, and was occupied as a place of worship until 1836.
            In May, 1832, it was decided to erect a new church building 
                  
                     4 Among these first members were Samuel Hogue, Mrs. Samuel Hogue. Mrs.
                            Hogue (the mother of Samuel Hongue). Robert Archer, Mrs. Robert (Mary Steele) Archer, Mrs.
                            Mary Boyd, (sister of Robert Archer), Thomas Archer, Mrs. Thomns (Mary McCalla) Archer,
                            Robert Stormont, Calvin Minnis. William Orr. and Mrs. James McMillan.
               
                     on the corner of 
                        Broadway
                     and Prince streets, and a building committee was appointed.5
                    Because of lack of resources, and the division which took place in 1833, the erection of the new
                    brick church was retarded, and it was not until 1836 that the building was ready for occupancy.
            In the early summer of 1832, a Sabbath School was organized by William Orr and James W. Hogue, and
                    its existence has been maintained to the present time. This was the first Sabbath School in southern
                    Indiana so far as the records disclose. The text books in use were the Bible and the Larger,
                    Shorter, and Short Catechisms. Much attention was given to memorizing portions of Scripture,
                    especially the Psalms. The writer remembers to have memorized most of the Short Catechism
                    "for young children" by the time he reached eight years of age. From then until
                    sixteen, when he left home for the University, every Sunday afternoon was devoted to learning and
                    rehearsing the Shorter Catechism from numbers 1 to 107 inclusive. Had he remained at home the Larger
                    Catechism doubtless would have been added to the curriculum. In this my grandfather, Robert Archer
                    II, was well grounded.
            Rev. Kell, at his own request, on September 24, 1838, was released from the pastoral care of the
                    congregation. He died four years later and was laid to rest in the Archer Cemetery, one mile north
                    of 
                        Princeton
                    . He did a good work in his chosen field, for, through his influence, a community of
                    substantial people of pronounced Christian character had been firmly established.
            During the early part of the year 1840, a call was made to Rev. Gilbert McMaster, D.D., which was
                    accepted, and on May 5, 1840, he was installed as pastor. In 1845 Dr. McMaster sought to have the
                    pastoral relationship dissolved. The dissolution did not take place until March 31, 1846. He
                    continued to serve the church, however, in various ways until March 1854, when he died, closing a
                    life of eminent usefulness. Meantime the congregation called Rev. John McMaster, who began his
                    labors in June 1846. The church prospered; so much so that it was decided to abolish the pew-rental
                    system which 
                  
                     5 The Committee consisted of James Finney, James W. Hogue, Andrew
                            Makemson. Cahin Minnis, Robert Stormont, William Orr and John Munford. (Hogue was a
                            brother-in-law of Thomas Archer and son-in-law of Robert Archer, while Munford was a
                            son-in-law of Thomas Archer.)
               
                     had been in vogue since the beginning, and furnish additional
                    seating accommodations with all doors of pews removed.
            On December 29, 1855, it was resolved to build a new church, and subscriptions therefor were taken;
                    the pastor's salary was raised from $500 to $650; and Dr. William W.
                    Blair and Archibald Warnock were elected Elders. These new Elders offered a lot for the new building
                    situated on the northwest corner of State and Prince streets, where the church now stands. During
                    the year 1857, a large brick church was erected. The building committee consisted of Dr. W. W.
                    Blair, Archibald Warnock, John K. Finney, John Sterne and Robert Duncan. The old church was occupied
                    by the congregation for the last time on the first Sabbath of January, 1858, and on January 11,
                    following, the new church was opened for service.
            In 1833 had occurred a controversy in the Reformed or Covenanter Church relative to the question of
                    participation in the affairs of civil government (voting and jury service), a question which
                    affected the local church in common with all others of that denomination throughout the country. A
                    committee, consisting of William Orr, Robert Stormont and James W. Hogue, was appointed to draft a
                    memorial from the 
                        Princeton
                     congregation to the, Western Presbytery, asking that it discuss the subject of voting
                    for civil officers and the matter of jury duty. We have no record of the action taken by Presbytery.
                    Later that same year another committee, consisting of Robert Stormont, James W. Hogue, Simon Orr and
                    William Orr, was appointed and on February 28, 1834, it made the following report on the
                    "Jury Subject:" "That a majority of them do agree that in so far as they
                    would employ the law for their own benefit or protection they could act on the jury."
            This report was accepted and approved and directed to be made known to the congregation. But they
                    were not all of one mind, for Robert Stormont dissented from the majority and presented a minority
                    report. On September 26, 1834, Robert Stormont absented himself from the meeting of Session and he
                    and others who believed that it was a violation of the standards of the church either to vote or
                    serve as jurors withdrew and formed their own separate organization.
            This seceding group, later known as the Stott Church, was called the "Old Light" or
                    "Old Side" Covenanters because  of its views
                    and practices, and it formed an organization of its own that same year, 1834, and worshiped here and
                    there under the care of Rev. J. J. McClurkin, until in 1851 a frame church was built on the north
                    side of State street between Prince and Gibson.6 The Rev. Dr. John Stott was
                    then secured as pastor, whose ministry continued until the infirmities of age prevented further
                    service. Even among these seceders there were internal dissensions and about 1865 a group, again
                    under the leadership of Robert Stormont, withdrew and established a third Covenanter congregation,
                    familiarly called the Martin Church. Inasmuch as it is still active, it will be treated elsewhere
                    under a distinctive head. Rev. Dr. Stott died in May, 1892. The congregation of
                    "Stottites" then disbanded and most of the members found homes in the several
                    Presbyterian churches about the city.
            The change from the Reformed (Covenanter) Presbyterian to the United Presbyterian Church was a
                    notable event in the history of this congregation. At a meeting of the Session of the Reformed
                    Presbyterian Church of 
                        Princeton
                    , held on June 6, 1870, the subject of union with the United Presbyterian Church was
                    taken up, and after a lengthy and cordial consideration it was, "Resolved, That we as a
                    Session approve the Basis of Union as adopted by the joint committees of the Reformed Presbyterian
                    General Assembly and the United Presbyterian General Assembly at its recent meeting in
                            
                  Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
               ." Those voting in favor of the resolution were:
                    Rev. Dr. John McMaster and elders William Orr, Simon Sprowl, Robert Milton Munford, Robert R. Woods
                    and Wiiliam W. Blair. There were no votes in the negative but James Stormont did not vote and James
                    S. Kell was absent. The congregation was called together on June 18, and asked to vote its
                    sentiments: 99 votes were cast for the union and 15 votes against.
            Rev. Dr. John McMaster and Elder Robert M. Munford attended the Western Reformed Presbyterian
                    Presbytery at Coulterville, 
                        Illinois
                    , August 10, 1870, as the representatives of the local congregation, at which
                    Presbyterial meeting it was voted to seek immediate union with the United Presbyterian Church of
                    America. The Presbytery also expressed itself as 
                  
                     6 Its prominent members were: Robert Stormont, an elder, David
                            Stormont, John and Josiah Carithers, Peter Withers, William and James Morrow, John Mahan,
                            Robert McCullough, Andrew McClain. Hugh Hanna, John Allen and James Gray.
               
                     laying aside none of its principles, but rather as seeking to
                    unite with a church, which, if not in letter, yet in spirit, was identical in doctrine, worship and
                    order. This vote for union did not go unprotested in the Western Presbytery, for Rev. Dr. Samuel W.
                    Wylie and three elders, voted against it, and Dr. Wylie gave notice of an appeal to Synod.
            At the meeting of the 
                        Illinois
                     Synod of the United Presbyterian Church on August 30, 1870, the Western Reformed
                    Presbyterian Presbytery was given the right hand of fellowship and its members invited to seats as
                    corresponding members, and, in accordance with further action of this Synod, the 
                        Princeton
                     congregation was assigned to the Second Synod of the West (Indiana) of the United
                    Presbyterian Church on September 1, 1870. Thus did the Reformed (Covenanter) Presbyterian Church of 
                        Princeton
                    , organized in 1810, formally become a part of the United Presbyterian Church in America
                    and its name the Second United Presbyterian Church of 
                        Princeton
                    .
            A minority, however, did not approve of this action and a considerable number, under the leadership
                    of William Stormont, withdrew in 1870 organized an independent Church, and built a frame building in
                    which to worship at the southeast corner of Gibson and Water streets. This fourth Reformed
                    (Covenanter) Presbyterian Church called Rev. Robert Blair as its pastor; it never had another;
                    hence, it was known locally as the Blair Church. The parent church paid over to this group of
                    seceders the sum of $1200 as its equitable share of the property belonging to the
                    original congregation, which was accepted, and used to build the new house of worship. The
                    congregation was not strong at any time and fell behind with the pastor's salary, William
                    Stormont, through some peculiar wording of the "Call," was finally required by the
                    court to make full settlement. This ended the history of that church; the pastor left, and the
                    members found homes in other denominations. This was in the year 1886. This third Stormont venture,
                    like those that preceded it, was ill-advised and not productive of any good.
            At this point in the narrative, it is essential to gather together a few outside threads and weave
                    them into the pattern. This necessitates a brief account of the Associate (Seceder) Church and of
                    the Associate Reformed Church,  two denominations which united
                    in 1858 to form the First United Presbyterian Church, the latter body, in turn, in 1874 merged with
                    the old Reformed (Covenanter) Church, since 1870, the Second United Presbyterian Church of 
                        Princeton
                    .
            There being members of the Associate (Seceder) Church in and around 
                        Princeton
                    , an organization was attempted in 1834. These belonged to that branch of the Associate
                    Church that had refused to unite with the Reformed (Covenanter) Church at the time of the union of
                    these two denominations in the 
                        United States
                     in 1782. In 1839 the local body effected an organization, with Rev. John McLain as
                    pastor, and the William and Samuel Lawrence families, a number of Woods families, Elijah Coulter,
                    Robert Gourley, and others, as members. All of them were Scotch-Irish from 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        South Carolina
                    , like their neighbors in the Covenanter denominations. These brethern worshiped in a
                    log church which stood near the James Lesley residence on the hill about one mile east of 
                        Princeton
                    . This congregation continued under the pastoral care of Rev. McLain until his
                    resignation in 1843, after which it had no settled pastor. The members became scattered and drifted
                    into other congregations, a number of them going into the Associate Reformed Church.
            Early in 1826, missionary work began among a few members of the Associate Reformed Presbyterian
                    Church in the vicinity of 
                        Princeton
                    . Services were held in the homes of Alexander Hudleson, Hugh Parkinson and John
                    McConnell. This group was served by itinerant pastors, among the first being James Worth, John
                    MeReynolds and Samuel C. Baldridge, as they periodically passed through Gibson county.
            For many years preaching services were continued by these faithful ministers and the first Sacrament
                    of the Lord's Supper was observed in the barn of Alexander Hudleson, about the year 1833.
                    At this time it was deemed expedient formally to organize a congregation. Accordingly in 1835, in
                    the same barn, these people assembled together and effected a church organization. The above
                    mentionel ministers were present and Hugh Parkinson and Alexander Hudleson were selected as ruling
                    elders. Soon after this the members began to see the great need of a house of worship. David McCalla
                    and John McConnell were appointed to arrange for and erect a brick church, which was to serve as
                    such so long as  the church should exist. It stood at 727 South
                    Main street, 
                        Princeton
                    , and is now occupied as a residence. In 1837, Rev. Samuel C. Baldridge was installed as
                    pastor, and one of his duties was to solicit funds to aid in the completion of the church building.
            As an indication of the prevailing sentiment of those times in regard to women speaking in public,
                    the following was taken from the minutes of a congregational meeting held in this church, April 17,
                    1837, and is of interest: "Resolved, That the Methodist Society may assemble and preach in
                    our brick church in 
                        Princeton
                     some days in May, provided that it be known to the applicant thereof that no female can
                    be permitted to speak in public, and that Mr. Baldridge be instructed to carry out and make known
                    this resolution to the applicant."
            The church seems to have been sorely pressed for funds, which continued all through the forties, for
                    in March, 1853, the pastor handed in his resignation, and the church was without a regular pastor
                    for some twelve months. On April 22, 1854, Rev. John L. Craig was chosen, and in November of that
                    year was installed as pastor, and shortly after this is recorded the resignation of Alexander
                    Hudleson from the Session. In 1857 Wilson McGrew and William Lawrence became the elders. William
                    Lawrence came from the Associate (Seceder) Church of 
                        Princeton
                    .
            In May, 1858, occurred the Union of the Associate Reformed Church with the Associate (Seceder)
                    Church, consummated at 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , which formed the United Presbyterian Church of America, and from the union of the two
                    local churches was thus formed the First United Presbyterian Church of 
                        Princeton
                    . Rev. John L. Craig, pastor of the Associate Reformed Church of 
                        Princeton
                    , continued as the pastor of this united congregation, the First United Presbyterian
                    Church, at 727 South Main street.
            About thirty members of this church and congregation enlisted in the ranks of those who were fighting
                    their country's battles in the Civil war. This so weakened the congregation that the pastor
                    was granted one-third of his time that he might work in other fields. Notwithstanding this relief in
                    financial obligations, the congregation failed to meet the need and, in consequence, the pastor gave
                    up his charge and  accepted a commission as chaplain of the 17th
                    Indiana Regiment. He lost his life by disease incident to the camp, on July 11, 1865, at
                            
                  Macon, Georgia
               . His pastorate covered a period of about eleven years and of him it
                    is remarked that a noble life and what was destined to be a great power in the cause of the Master,
                    were ended.
            After the War, the congregation once more made a vigorous effort to secure a settled pastor. A call
                    extended to Rev. John Pinkerton was declined. In 1870, the determined people asked Rev. S. F. Clarke
                    to become their pastor and he was installed in November of that year. The congregation then lost by
                    death two of its strongest supporters, both officially and financially, in the persons of Elders
                    John Gourley and Samuel Hudleson. There were other distressing circumstances that seemed to hover
                    over the pathway of pastor and congregation. Due to these circumstances and the removal of many
                    members from the bounds of the congregation, those remaining were unable to maintain a pastor. In
                    1874, it was deemed best for Rev. Clarke to resign his charge, to disolve the organization and for
                    the members to go in a body to the Second United Presbyterian church, which had been organized four
                    years previously.
            The petition of the First Church for consolidation with the Second Church was prepared on April 11.
                    1874. It set forth the fact that it was unable to continue its separate existence, asked to be
                    united and that its Elders take their places among the Elders of the United Church. This petition
                    was signed by Thomas H. Gillespie as chairman and William A. Simpson as secretary. Due notice was
                    given to the members of the Second Church on May 10, 1874, and that congregation voted unanimous
                    approval of the Basis of Union. On May 14, 1874, the union of the First and Second congregations was
                    formally consummated and the Elders of the First Church, William Lawrence, Smith Wilson and Thomas
                    H. Gillespie, were added to the roll of Elders of the Second Church. The church property was
                    disposed of, outstanding debts paid, and the remainder was transferred to the treasury of the Second
                    Church. About sixty members of the First Church took up their abode in the Second Church, which was
                    thereafter designated simply as the United Presbyterian Church of 
                        Princeton
                    .  The congregation thus formed from so many
                    integral parts has gone on without further changes to the present time.
            Rev. Dr. John McMaster, after years of patient labor in raising the congregation to a prosperous
                    condition, was compelled because of failing health to give up his pastoral work and on July 11,
                    1874, he peacefully entered into rest. His pastorate had extended from June 7, 1846, for a period of
                    twenty-eight years, marked by many changes and much material progress. His influence for good in
                    this community has been exceeded by none and attained by few.
            Rev. William H. McMaster, of no kin to the former incumbent, was given a unanimous call and installed
                    as pastor on December 29, 1874. In 1877 he tutored the writer in prepatory Latin incident to the
                    University entrance examinations. He closed his pastorate November 15, 1881. Few changes occurred
                    after that time. The Rev. John A. Gordon, D.D. next filled the pastorate. He was called February 6,
                    1883, and ministered to the congregation until April 8, 1988, when Rev. J. Beveridge Lee, D.D., was
                    installed and served to November 10, 1891. Following him the Rev. A. M. Campbell, Ph.D., served from
                    July 18, 1892, to August 27, 1901. Rev. W. H. Patterson became pastor January 21, 1902, and
                    continued until Rev. Morris Watson entered upon his work as pastor in April, 1911. Rev. Watson
                    served until the installation of his successor, the present Rev. J. P. Nesbit, D.D., in April, 1922.
            One event of importance during the pastorate of Dr. Gordon was the introduction of the organ as an
                    aid to the praise service. On February 4, 1886, a petition signed by 223 members asking for
                    permission to use the organ in the Sabbath School was presented to the Session, and, after some
                    discussion, was deferred until February 22, 1886, for final action. On that date permission was
                    granted by a vote of four to one, and the organ has been in use ever since. From the Sabbath School
                    to the Sanctuary, the same year, was a matter of course and without much opposition. From earliest
                    times the Precentor, in the absence of psalm books, led the singing and "lined
                    off" for the congregation; that is, he read two lines of the psalm, which were then sung,
                    and so to the end. As a small lad on the farm, at the countryside prayer-meetings, this old custom
                    remains indelibly imprinted upon my memory.
            
            A matter of interest, more especially to the writer, also during Dr. Gordon's pastorate, was
                    an act of the Session, which summarily dismissed me from church membership. It was brought about by
                    complaints of certain old-time members of the congregation who held tenaciously to the early tenets
                    of the church which opposed secret societies. In December, 1884, I had joined the Masonic
                    Fraternity, and in the eyes of the church this was a crime against its standards. Sometime during
                    April, 1887, After my return from the University of Leipzig, 
                        Germany
                    , I was chosen to moderate a Congregational Meeting. This was too much for the sticklers
                    for old forms and beliefs. One of the good Mothers of the Church was heard to remark, that:
                    "The Church surely is coming to a pretty pass, with an organ in the choir-box and a
                    Freemason in the Chair." Sometime that month or the month following, my dismissal, without
                    letter, occurred. An uncle, four cousins, and a then prospective father-in-law, were members of
                    Session, and sat in solemn judgement. I did not have a chance! On June 13, 1887, I united, on
                    Profession of Faith, with the First Presbyterian Church of 
                        Princeton
                    , where it has been my province to serve as Sunday School Superintendent, Deacon,
                    Treasurer, and, for twenty years, as Elder.
            Communion Sabbaths were less frequent in the early days than they are at present, but very solemn and
                    impressive. These were preceded by the Saturday preparatory service at which the
                    "tokens"—metal disks that entitled the holder to
                    "commune" on the morrow—were distributed to the intending communicants
                    as they filed by the pastor and session near the pulpit. Only members were privileged to receive the
                    "token", and without it one was not permitted to commune. This was the essence of
                    "close communion." Even today outsiders wishing to commune, must obtain the
                    session's sanction in advance. The "Table" was set up across the width of
                    the church, between pulpit and pews, and the communicants filed into place and were seated on each
                    side, the pastor officating at one end. But this custom, like many others, has passed away, and few
                    living now remember it. It is but a memory of my early boyhood days.
            Another matter worthy of note is the patriotism of the members of this church and their readiness to
                    defend their country's flag. In the annals of this congregation, during  more than a century of its existence, there is no more creditable
                    record than its war history. Of those who gave up their lives for their country, it may be said, no
                    better soldiers ever girded on the armor, no truer patriots ever lived. It will not seem strange
                    that the descendants of the old Scotch Covenanters should be imbued with the war spirit, and be
                    ready to take the sword to defend their country, for the Covenanters have a record for stalwart
                    patriotism from earliest times, and they have ever had the courage of their convictions.7
            
            The first man in Gibson county to enlist for the defense of his country in the Civil War was from
                    this congregation, Dr. Samuel E. Munford, grandson of Thomas Archer. He enlisted as a private,
                    became assistant surgeon, surgeon, and later medical director of the Wilder Brigade. In all there
                    were sixty-four persons in the church and congregation who volunteered and fought in the Civil War.
                    This was about forty per cent of the enrolled membership of the congregation. A large number of
                    these gave up their lives in the service, among them being: Archibald Warnock, Archibald McCurdy,
                    McLeod Munford, David Woods, John Brown Woods (my father), William Archer, Theodore Archer and
                    Samuel Carithers.8
            
            In the Spanish American War and the World War, also, the congregation was fully represented. And we
                    must not neglect to mention the name of one of the Charter Members of the Church, one of the
                    earliest pioneers, a soldier in the War of 1812, and in the Mexican War, Samuel Hamilton Woods, the
                    grandfather of the present writer. Thomas Archer, one of the founders, fought at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    .
            A daughter of Samual Hamilton Woods, Mrs. Ann Eliza Hudleson, in 1898, greatly enlarged and
                    beautified the old house of worship, added a handsome pipe organ, and in 1908 erected a commodious
                    two-story brick parsonage, all as a memorial to her late husband, and at a total expense of
                    $25,-000. This munificent gift places the church property of this pioneer congregation on
                    a par with those of the other city churches.
            Just one other reminiscence: Mrs. Anna Small Crothers, of Sparta, 
                        Illinois
                    , a member of this church until the year 1873, 
                  
                     7 Gilbert R. Stormont, Centennial Celebration of the
                                United Presbyterian Church, 
                                    Princeton
                                . Indiana (
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana, 1911). 54 ff.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid.
               
                     set forth her impressions for the Centennial Anniversary of the
                    church as follows: 
                        Looking down the west side of the audience room the pews appear to be occupied by Lawrences,
                            Wilsons, Blairs, McCurdys, Orrs, Kells, Hamiltons, Hudlesons, and McClellans. Then, here in
                            front of the pulpit, sat the Camerons, the Finneys, Duncans, Dunlaps, Keys, Warnocks,
                            Sterns, Howes, Wrights, and over on the other side the Sturgises, Archers, Ervins, Fords,
                            Smiths, Crows, Williams, Munford?, and prlcClurkins. And in almost each of the alternate
                            pews sat the Stormonts or the Woodses9
                  
                        And here we bring to a close the record of the Reformed Presbyterian (Covenanter) Church
                            which was founded in 1810.
                    
                
            THE THIRD REFORMED PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH OF PRINCETON.
            Owing to internal dissensions the "Old Side" Reformed (Covenanter) Church or Stott
                    Church divided in 1865 and the seceding members, led by Robert Stormont, after some years of
                    itinerant worship, erected a frame church of their own on the north side of East 
                        Broadway
                    , between Gibson and Seminary Streets.10 The building has since been
                    enlarged and attractively modernized. Rev. D. C. Martin was its ablest minister and from him the
                    body was known locally as the Martin Church. The Stormont family that led the withdrawal from the
                    old Covenanter Church to the Stott Church in 1833, were the leaders in the withdrawal in this
                    instance also and in the formation of this Third Reformed (Coveninter) Church. The same family in
                    1870 led in still another withdrawal from the old Church of a group to form the Blair Church. The
                    Martin Church is now the only survivor of the three seceding bodies. Its members still resist jury
                    service, do not vote at elections, sing psalms, do not use instrumental music and are strictly
                    "close communionists."
            THE FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH OF PRINCETON
            The 
                        Salem
                     Presbytery of the Presbyterian Church held its session in 
                        Princeton
                    , Indiana, May 9, 1828, at which meeting the First Presbyterian Church of 
                        Princeton
                     was organized. The members enrolled were: Robert Williams, Nancy Williams, Polly
                    Wilson, William French, Mary French, Nathaniel Foster, Nancy Foster, James R. E. Goodlet, Elinor
                        
                  
                     9
                            Ibid. The writer, during a period of a hundred years of history, through
                            the Archer family from 1803 and the Woods family from 1807. was kin to many of the above, as
                            the McCurdys, Huddlesons, Finneys. Warnocks, Munfords, Ervins and McClurkins. for these
                            Scotch Covenantors remained clannish throughout and intermarriages among members of their
                            own church were sanctioned as a foregone conclusion.
                  
                     10 This group consisted of Robert and David Stormont, John and Josiah
                            Carithers, Thomas Stott, William Peoples, Peter Withers, and some of the Homes and
                            Lockharts.
               
                     Goodlet, Melvina Butler, Jane B. Evans, Nancy Howard and James
                    Whiteman—eight men and five women. Two Ruling Elders were chosen—William
                    French and James R. E. Goodlet. This was the first fully perfected society of this denomination in 
                        Princeton
                    , but there had been another organization partly perfected previously.11
            
            It is well to bear in mind that at this time 
                        Gibson County
                     was mostly a wilderness. Its rivers and lakes were full of fish and its woods full of
                    deer, wild turkeys and other game. 
                        Princeton
                     was then a small village, with no paved streets and no paved sidewalks, except perhaps
                    in front of some of the stores around the public square. The common mode of travel was on horseback.
                    There were no gas or electric lights or even coal-oil lamps in that day. Candles, generally
                    home-made tallow candles, were used. "At candlelight" was the usual way of
                    announcing a night meeting.
            At the first meeting, the Presbytery ordained Calvin Butler, a licentiate from the Londerry
                    Presbytery, as an Evangelist and he immediately began his work as a Stated Supply. He received and
                    accepted a call to the Presbyterian Church at 
                        Evansville
                     in 1832. His son, John M. Butler, became a lawyer of national reputation, being a
                    member of the firm McDonald and Butler, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He was an elder in the Presbyterian Church at 
                        Indianapolis
                     and a trustee of 
                        Wabash
                     College. Rev. 
                        Butler
                     was succeeded by Rev. William M. Martin who served as a Supply. Because of a large
                    family, and the necessarily scant support which a small congregation could give, he resigned in
                    1834, and in 1835 was succeeded by Rev. Dr. Hugh H. Patton, who came from 
                        Kentucky
                     to open a female school in 
                        Princeton
                    . He preached intermittently, as Stated Supply, until 1836. His school room was
                    "the usual place of meeting for the church." John McCord, a licentiate from 
                        Madison
                     Presbytery, carried on the work, as Stated Supply, from 1838 to 1843, when Rev. Robert
                    Lilley, from 
                  Mt. Carmel, Illinois
               , supplied the pulpit for a few months. He was
                    followed in 1844 by R. V. Dodge, a licentiate from 
                        New York
                    , who did 
                  
                     11 The records of the Session, from the organization on May 9, 1828,
                            down to the beginning of the pastorate of Rev. John Montgomery on September 1, 1868, are
                            lost; however our source of information is a "Brief History" of that
                            period of forty years, written in a wonderfully beautifully script, and furnished to us by
                            Elder John Lagow. Sr. As he was Clerk of Session it was doubtless compiled from the records
                            before they disappeared. The internal makeup of the "Brief History" is
                            evidence of that fact. It may have been prepared to read at the Fortieth Anniversary of the
                            Church, and later, after the loss of the full record, copied into the Minutes. It leaves
                            little to be desired. Since that date the Minutes are complete.
               
                     much good as a Supply. His successor was the Rev. A. J.
                    Hendricks, who was installed Pastor in 1845, and who served faithfully and successfully until 1853.
                    He was thus the first regular Pastor, his predecessors being Supplies. Rev. Henry Biggs, the next
                    Pastor, served for two years. In the spring of 1855, the Rev. John D. Paxton, of 
                        Kentucky
                    , began his labors as Pastor. He was a man of rare attainments and many beautiful traits
                    of character. The minutes read that "he was a very able, interesting and instructive
                    preacher of the Gospel," and further, that "all who knew him honored
                    him." He was the father of Judge Thomas R. Paxton. In March, 1860, he left to assume the
                    presidency of 
                        Highland
                     University, 
                        Kansas
                    . Dr. Paxton was followed by Rev. H. B. Scott, from April, 1860 to 1863, when he was
                    succeeded by Rev. John H. Aughey, as Stated Supply, for one year. In June, 1864, Rev. Dr. Paxton,
                    "having fulfilled his mission in 
                        Kansas
                    ," returned to 
                        Princeton
                     and again took oversight of the Church, serving most acceptably until near his death at
                    the age of eighty-five years. From September, 1867 to 1868, the Church was supplied by Rev. Martin
                    B. Vanarsdale, a licentiate.
            On September 1, 1868, Rev. John Montgomery began his labors, serving for eleven years, until June 1,
                    1879. On September 1, 1879, Rev. B. Mills, of 
                  Shelbyville, Illinois
               , became
                    the Stated Supply, serving until June 1, 1880. He was followed by Rev. John Stewart, who occupied
                    the pulpit as Stated Supply, from September 1, 1880 to October 1, 1886. Rev. William D. Ward then
                    became Stated Supply, May 15, 1887, being installed Pastor May 10, 1888. He resigned August 1, 1892,
                    to accept the chair of Latin in a Presbyterian college at 
                  Emporia, Kansas
               , and later at
                    Occidental College, 
                        California
                    . Before leaving the 
                        Princeton
                     congregation he received the degree of Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) from Wooster
                    University, 
                        Ohio
                    . Following him, the Rev. Dr. Alexander J. Kerr was elected and installed Pastor,
                    October 18, 1892, ministering until August 5, 1895, when he accepted a call to 
                        New York City
                    . During his pastorate the present church edifice was built and dedicated. Rev. J. Henry
                    Cone, of Midland, 
                        Michigan
                    , became Pastor on January 30, 1895, and resigned July 27, 1899. Rev. Dr. Douglas P.
                    Putnan, 
                        Logansport
                    , Indiana, followed as Pastor from November 14, 1899, to July 25, 1904, his resignation
                    being occasioned by his acceptance of the chair of Homiletics 
                    and Pastoral Theology in Lane Theological Seminary, 
                  Cincinnati, Ohio
               . He died the
                    following year, March 25, 1905.
            Rev. Frank H. Shedd, 
                  Sioux City, Iowa
               , entered upon his duties as Pastor May 29, 1905, but
                    resigned February 9, 1908, to accept the pastorate of a church in Shenandoah, 
                        Iowa
                    . He is now (1929) Pastor at Waterloo, 
                        Iowa
                    . On March 18, 1908, Rev. Dr. Ernest G. Hildner of 
                  Detroit, Michigan
               , became
                    Pastor. During his pastorate, on January 12, 1910, the Union of the 
                        Cumberland
                     Presbyterian Church, at 
                        Broadway
                     and Prince streets, with this Church, was effected, under the name of the First
                    Presbyterian Church of 
                        Princeton
                    . Rev. Dr. Hildner was installed (or re-installed) Pastor of the united churches on
                    January 27, 1910, and served until September 14, 1919, when the pastoral relation was dissolved. He
                    then served the church at Houghton, 
                        Michigan
                    , for seven years, and in May, 1928, became Pastor of a large and influential church at
                    Hillsdale, 
                        Michigan
                    . On March 27, 1921, after eighteen months under various Supplies, Rev. Loudon A.
                    Harriman, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was installed and began his able and comprehensive work. He is still the Pastor in
                    1930.
            Rev. A. T. Hendricks, who came in 1845, was the first Pastor. Probably the Stated Supplies who
                    preceded him did not give all their time to the 
                        Princeton
                     church, but preached at some other places. The salary paid was very small and
                    insufficient. One of the elders of the church writing (not officially) about Rev. W. Martin, the
                    second minister on the roll, says: "He labored two years, accomplishing much good. His
                    family was large. The church was small and weak and could not give him ample support. Brother Martin
                    came to the conclusion that his numerous family could be better supported in a country congregation,
                    so he moved to 
                        Knox County
                     and served the West 
                        Salem
                     church. "We regretted to part with him and his interesting family,"
                    continues the elder, "but we bowed to the will of 
                        Providence
                    ."
            Another side-light on the question of salary is the following entry: 
                        At a congregational meeting held April 8, 1841, at candle light, to choose a pastor, it was:
                            ‘Resolved, that we have full confidence in the ministerial labors of Rev. John M.
                            McCord and are anxious to have them continued, but we find ourselves unable under present
                            circumstances to  give him a complete support, and that
                            it is inexpedient to proceed to the election of a pastor at present.
                    
                
            As showing the strength of a tradition of Presbyterians for an educated ministry, the following
                    resolution, adopted by this financially weak church in 1830, is interesting: 
                        Resolved, that this church become an education society auxiliary to the 
                                Wabash
                             Presbytery, that each member pay twenty-five cents or more annually for the
                            purpose of assisting to educate some pious young man for the gospel ministry, the first
                            payment to made previous to the last Thursday of September, 1830.
                    
                
            The first Ruling Elders, elected and ordained at the time of the organization of the Church in 1828,
                    were William French and Judge James R. E. Goodlet. The latter was judge of the circuit court from
                    1828 to 1832. In 1832, April 29, William Hummer and John Lagow, Sr. were ordained Elders. John McCoy
                    and Samuel M. Archer became Elders in 1850. Samuel Archer later moved to 
                        Evansville
                     and served as Elder of the Walnut Street (First) Presbyterian Church until his death.
                    He was a son of Thomas Archer, one of the founders of the Reformed (Covenanter) Church. April 30,
                    1859, Alfred Poland, Samuel Wilson, Seth Ward, Sr., Samuel Hall, Lucius S. French and Henry Morton
                    were ordained Elders, and by November 21, 1868, such changes by death and otherwise had taken place,
                    that only Seth Ward, Sr., and Lucius S. French remained in active service. Judge Samuel Hall was
                    probably the most distinguished member this church ever had, at one time being Lieutenant Governor
                    of Indiana.
            On May 6, 1872, Lucius S. French was dismissed to the 
                        Cumberland
                     Presbyterian Church at Patoka, Indiana, and the vacancy filled by the ordination of Dr.
                    William P. Welborn. Fifteen years afterwards (1887) these two Elders, Messrs. Ward and Welborn,
                    decided to ask the congregation to elect two others to assist them in their duties, whereupon, in
                    September, 1887, Dr. Martin V. Witherspoon and Fred J. Hall were elected; but Mr. Hall declining to
                    serve, another election was had and Joseph T. Fleming elected. (Mr. Hall was again elected in 1921
                    and served until his death in 1925). Messrs. Witherspoon and Fleming were installed on November 11,
                    1887. These four, Seth Ward, Sr., Dr. Welborn, Dr. Witherspoon and Capt. Fleming, then served until
                    June 2, 1895, when  Levin W. Gudgel and Robert G. Watt were
                    added. Dr. Welborn died February 12, 1898, after 26 years service, and on April 20, 1898, Thomas R.
                    Paxton and William D. Downey were ordained Elders. Mr. Paxton retired March 28, 1909, and Mr. Ward,
                    at the age of 85 years and after fifty years of service as Elder, was voted retirement as Elder
                    Emeritus; on this date, to fill these vacancies, Robert Archer Woods and George Jerauld Welborn were
                    elected and ordained. On this date, also the Rotary Method of electing Elders was proposed and
                    adopted, the arrangement being for Messrs. Witherspoon and Gudgel to serve for one year, Downey and
                    Watt for two years, and Woods and Welborn for three years, thereafter reelection to be triennially.
                    On January 12, 1910, the First Presbyterian Church and the 
                        Cumberland
                     Presbyterian church united, with Elders Downey, Witherspoon, Watt, Gudgel, Woods and
                    Welborn from the first named congregation, and Elders Joseph Kelzer, F. W. Robinson, William L.
                    Snapp, Robert Herriott, William L. Davis and Dr. James A. Brumfield from the second named
                    congregation, constituting the united board of elders, with Seth Ward, Sr. from the first and
                    Alexander Downey from the second, as Elders Emeritus. The present Session (1930) consists in order
                    of seniority, of Messrs. Robert G. Watt, Robert Archer Woods, George J. Welborn, William L. Davis,
                    William Toelle, Harvey Milburn and Elwood S. Lichtenberger.
            In looking over the Session books one is impressed by the number of important and interesting things
                    that are not mentioned, and by the regularity and certainty with which the name of the moderator and
                    the names of the elders present or absent are stated, and that the meeting opened and closed with
                    prayer. It seems to be well established eccelesiastical law that there is no presumption that the
                    minister or one of the elders will do any praying at a meeting of the Session. On the contrary, the
                    presumption is strong that no prayer was offered, unless the record shows affirmatively in black and
                    white that prayer was offered. And unless the record shows that every meeting of Sessions opened and
                    closed with prayer, it does not pass muster at Presbytery without solemn criticism.
            These observations are prompted by a fruitless search made to find out in what building 
                        Salem
                     Presbytery met on May 9, 1928, and in what building the church afterwards met  for worship. The Session book furnishes no positive answers to
                    such questions. Incidentally, it crops out that some meetings were held in the court house in 1830
                    and 1831. And in 1833, a meeting was held in "the Covenanter meeting house."12 In 1833, Rev. Dr. Patton started a female school in 
                        Princeton
                     and his school room came to be the usual meeting place of the church. We learn this
                    from the record of a case of discipline. The charge was that a member "has several times
                    drank to intoxication; that he visited the grocery, and treated to intoxicating drinks;"
                    and he was cited to appear "at one-half after five o'clock P. M. in Rev. Hugh H.
                    Patton's school room, the usual place of meeting for the church." In those days,
                    liquors were kept in grocery stores.
            The Session book is silent about the erection of the first house of worship. The only reference to it
                    states that Rev. John F. Crowe, D. D. (founder and first president of Hanover College) preached at a
                    meeting held in the church on November 14, 1833. Deed record F, page 37, in the Recorder's
                    office, shows that Samuel Hall and Elizabeth Prince Hall, his wife, on June 17, 1836, conveyed
                    in-lot 71 of the original plat of the town of 
                        Princeton
                    , in consideration of $100, to William French, John Lagow and John McCoy,
                    trustees of the 
                        Princeton
                     Presbyterian Church.
            This lot is on the corner of Hart and Chestnut streets, two blocks north of the northwest corner of
                    the public square. Here a brick church was built, probably in 1837 or 1838. It faced west on Hart
                    street and had two front doors. An aisle ran from each front door to the east end of the building.
                    The pulpit was between the two front doors. It was rather high and steps led up to it from the aisle
                    on each side. The pews, of course, faced the pulpit and front doors. Even in those days and under
                    those conditions, there were persons who wanted to sit as far away from the pulpit as possible. To
                    reach the back seats one had to face the entire congregation and walk the entire length of the
                    building. There were two box-pews, nearly square, one on each side of the pulpit. This church had a
                    dinkey little cupola on the top of it, in which hung a bell in plain sight. The boy was an expert
                    who could throw a stone and hit the clapper of this bell. It could be 
                  
                     12 Judge Thomas R. Paxton, Address at the 90th
                                Anniversary of the First Presbyterian Church of 
                                    Princeton
                                
                      (1918).
               
                     done. Some of the boys who went to school there proved that
                    they were experts.13
            
            In 1857, this brick church was torn down, and another and larger brick church erected on the same
                    spot. The bricks of the old church were used to build a Sunday School room, east of and adjoining
                    the main building. This was during the ministry of John D. Paxton, D.D. He and Samuel Hall made the
                    canvass for subscriptions to build the new church. This building was in constant use until destroyed
                    by fire in 1893. In the Clarion of December 29, 1857, this item appeared in the
                    local column edited by Burr H. Polk: "The plan of the beautiful cupola on the Presbyterian
                    Church which is erected was made by Henry Agar, of this place, who was superintendent and aided in
                    the erection of the building. It is a very neat piece of architecture, well proportioned and
                    executed. It will always he an ornament to the town." This cupola was injured by a storm.
                    No known picture of it is in existence.14
            
            In the advertising columns of the Clarion appeared the following notice:
                    "The ladies of the Presbyterian Church will give a supper at their new Church on Tuesday
                    evening, the 29th of December, 1857. The object of the supper is to aid in raising sufficient money
                    to purchase a bell for the building. Tickets will be sold at fifty cents each and may be procured of
                    Mr. John Kell or Mr. W. L. Evans." The supper netted $58. Mr. Polk said some
                    very complimentary things about the supper in the next issue of the paper. The bell purchased was
                    noted for its sweetness of sound. The broken fragments were collected after the fire of 1893, and
                    small souvenir tea bells and paper weights made out of them.15
            
            This second church edifice served the congregation for forty-six years. On July 12, 1893, it was
                    destroyed in the great Pire which consumed every building on the west side of the square, the
                    Methodist Church and other buildings in the north part of town. Only the brick walls of the
                    Presbyterian Church remained standing. The only salvage from the fire was the old walnut pulpit, and
                    four pulpit chairs to match, and these are doing duty today in the Lecture Room of the church.
            For some time before the fire the question of a new building had been discussed; also the question of
                    location. The 
                  
                     13
                            Ibid.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid.
               
                     railroad in Chestnut street was very objectionable.
                    Nevertheless, some clung to the old location on account of the many memories connected with the
                    spot; the weddings, funerals and other special services bound them to it as with hooks of steel.
                    They saw in the old pews the forms of those who had sat in them and were not. They realized the
                    truth of saying: "You may build more splendid habitations, but you cannot buy with gold the
                    old associations.16
            
            On February 26, 1893, five months before the Fire, the Session called a Congregational Meeting for
                    March 1, 1893," to consider the question of a new church building." At that
                    meeting it was decided to secure another lot, more remote from the noise occasioned by the Southern
                    Railway trains, and then proceed with plans for the erection of a new church edifice, as soon as
                    subscriptions should amount to $13,000. The lot where the congregation now worhsips at
                    the corner of Hart and Water streets was chosen, and bought for $1,000; later twenty feet
                    additional was secured on the east for $400. About that time, having lost the old
                    building by fire, the congregation was forced to hasten its efforts to raise money and complete
                    plans for the new edifice. Meanwhile, it worshiped in the large Court Room and in the Knights of
                    Pythias Hall. The contract was let to George Goodge, of 
                        Evansville
                    , for $14,600, to which $400 was added for extras.
            It is proper to state that the citizens of 
                        Princeton
                     very materially assisted in the building of the church. The full story of the erection
                    of this building has never been told, and as the book of accounts is still preserved, it will be of
                    interest to give it some attention. The Building Committee appointed by the congregation to carry on
                    the work consisted of three Trustees, namely, Dr. Martin V. Witherspoon, Capt. James S. Epperson and
                    Fred J. Hall, to which were added four others, namely, Dr. William P. Welborn, Thomas R. Paxton,
                    William D. Downey and Robert A. Woods. The budget, as finally worked out, for the church building
                    and equipment, 
                  
                     16
                            Ibid.
               
                     amounted to $21,677.25, not including the lot.17 Of this amount members of the church and congregation suscribed
                    $14,086.50. Donations from others amounted to $841.25. The Ladies Aid Society
                    raised a total of $2,024; and the cost of six Memorial Windows was donated by various
                        persons.18
            
            On February 25, 1894, the present edifice was occupied, and the work has ever since "carried
                    on." It was dedicated on April 29, 1894, with appropriate services and much thankfulness.
                    The membership at that time was 152, with 29 added during the year that followed.
            As often happens, the total cost exceeded the estimates, but in a short time the debts were all paid,
                    and a "note burning" was held, to which the honor of setting fire to the notes was
                    granted to Mrs. John B. (Sarah Lagow) Hall, as she had been a member of the church longer than any
                    other person then living.
            The Memorial Organ, in memory of Dr. William P. Welborn, for 25 years an Elder and for many years
                    member and leader of the Choir, was the gift of his widow and four sons. It cost $2,500,
                    and was added several years after the church was built, about 1895.
            A Manse on South Hart street, the Clarence A. Buskirk residence, was bought, overhauled, held for
                    several years, and sold for the sum of $4,600. It was decided to purchase a lot elsewhere
                    and erect a new Manse, but no lot of convenient size 
                  
                            
                        17 The budget, in its final form, was as follows: Lot 75x148; general
                                contract to Mr. Goodge, with $400 extras, $15,000; furnace.
                                $396; seats, $602; Lighting, $162.25; Bible,
                                $18; pulpit, bench, and two chairs, $75.50; Communion Table.
                                $22.75; bell, $180; choir chairs, parlor carpet, Clock, and
                                furniture, $170; Memorial Windows (6). $1,835.75; carpet
                                $500; frescoing, $410; architect, $300; freight, labor,
                                drayage, lumber, glass, etc., $587: a total of $21,677.25.
                            This money was raised as follows: Subscriptions paid in by members of the church and
                                congregation, $14,086.50; Donations from others, $841.25: Ladies
                                Aid Society: pews, $602; lighting. $162.25; carpets,
                                $500; frescoing. $410; cash, $350; a total for the
                                Society of $2,024: Cash from Building and Loan stock, $686.75;
                                Sale of two city lots, old church lot on North Hart street and parsonage on West State
                                street, $2,085: Sale of old brick, $100: Gifts: North Window,
                                $800; West Window, $525: East Window, $231: South
                                Window, $200: Vestibule Window. $60: and two small Lecture Room
                                Windows, $37.75, total windows, $1,853.75. Grand Total of Gifts,
                                subscriptions, etc., $21,677.25, as above.
                        
                  
                     18 The donors of the Memorial Windows were as follows: North, in
                            memory of Rev. John D. Paxton, by his son, Judge Thomas R. Paxton: West, in memory of Nancy
                            Jerauld, by her daughters, Mrs. Mary J. Welborn, Mrs. Laura J. Owen and Mrs. Amelia J.
                            Paxton: East, in memory of Judge Samuel Hall, by his daughters, Mrs. Mary Kidd and Mrs.
                            Octavia Downey; South, in memory of John and Anna Wise Lagow, by their daughter, Mrs. Sarah
                            Lagow Hall; Vestibule, in memory of Charles A. Slayback, by his daughter, Mrs. Sue Branham;
                            in addition to these Memorial Windows, there were the following gifts: Bell for Steeple, in
                            memory of Mrs. Eusebia Williams, by her daughters, Flora, Ann, Sarah, and Mary; Communion
                            Table, in memory of Mrs. Mary Harris Mauck, by her children, Mrs. Luella Hargrove, Mrs.
                            Grace Chism, Mrs. Mable Arburn and Mr. Alfred Mauck, Jr.; Silver Communion Service,
                            consisting of pitcher, two plates, six holders for individual glasses, with two tops, by
                            Seth Ward, Sr. four additional Communion Plates by Levin W. Gudgel, and the set of choir
                            chairs, by a class of boys in the Sunday School.
               
                     or location could be secured, and at a Congregational Meeting
                    on April 19, 1922, Mrs. Amelia Hall Hudson offered to donate a lot 40x100 feet off the south side of
                    her residence property at Main and Water streets, one block from the Church, which was gladly
                    accepted, and the present Manse was built thereon at a cost of $8,410. The Building
                    Committee charged with its construction consisted of Mrs. Amelia Hall Hudson, Robert Archer Woods,
                    Walter Riggs, and A. L. Radcliff, the latter member representing the Trustees.
            In 1925, the interior of the church was redecorated by the Ladies Industrial Society, at a cost of
                    $600; and in May, 1927, it was decided to remodel the basement, dining room and kitchen
                    and install a heating system; subscriptions were made accordingly, and the work done during the
                    summer of 1927, at a cost of $6,320. Thus with the interior improvements of the Church
                    added to the above figures of building expenditures, the total outlay on lot, building, parsonage,
                    and equipment, has been some $40,000; a present value (1930) of about $60,000,
                    conservatively speaking.19
            
            As a side-light on past and present customs, it would seem that the Session of today is rather
                    fearful to exercise its full power, as it certainly did not hesitate to do in the past. If it was a
                    straight-laced as in the early days, the Session itself might have big gaps in its make-up. The
                    record recites many instances of members being cited to appear before it to give answer for
                    delinquencies in church attendance, intoxication, remissness in Christian duty, and sometimes
                    unchaste behavior. For example, a woman and her two daughters were 
                  
                            
                        19 It might be of interest to know that the last couple to be married
                                in the old Church before it was burned was the writer, Robert Archer Woods and Mary
                                Lagow Hall, on September 3, 1889; that the last person to be baptized there was John
                                Hall Woods, their son, on January 28, 1893; and that the last person to unite with the
                                Church there was Miss Lenora Paxton (Mrs. Charles A. Miller) on July 9, 1893, three days
                                before the church was destroyed. The first person to untie with this Church in its
                                present location was Miss Mabel Burger. on March 18, 1894. 23 days after its occupancy;
                                and the first person to be baptized here was Oscar P. Welborn, on April 1, 1894, on
                                which day he also united with the Church.
                            A few of the early members still living (1929) and the dates of their accession to
                                membership appear as follows: Mrs. Eilen Shannon Epperson, March 27, 1860, by
                                certificate; Thomas R. Paxton, February 20, 1869: Anna Munford Servoss, March 16, 1872;
                                Sara Jane McAfee, March 12, 1873; Anna Hall Wade, February 27, 1876; Kate Collis, March
                                5, 1876; Amelia Wise Hall, March 1, 1877; Mary Lagow Hall, Minnie and Mattie Collis,
                                Dccember 25, 1881; Mrs. Lou Kendle, April 5, 1885; George Jerauld Welborn and Mable
                                Fleming, June 28, 1885; Mrs. Lucilla C. Miller (member Reformed Covenanter Church in
                                1853) and Charles A. Miller, on certificate from the United Presbyterian Church, June
                                13, 1887, and on the same date "by profession of faith" Robert Archer
                                Woods (this last procedure was necessary bccause the Session of the U. P. Church had
                                dismissed him without letter from its membership for refusing to renounce his connection
                                with the Masonic Fraternity); Mr. and Mrs. Robert G. Watt, July 15, 1891, by letter:
                                Mrs. Grace Chism, May 1, 1892; Samuel F. Braselton, November 6, 1892; Mary E. Skelton,
                                January 1, 1893; Laura J. Paxton, April 2, 1893: and Lenora Paxton, July 9, 1893. This
                                brings us to the time of the Fire on July 12, 1893.
                        
               
                     counseled with, tried and summarily dismissed from membership
                    "for talking about the minister, to his hurt and the spoiling of his usefulness."
                    In October, 1887, eighten members were stricken from the Rolls "for three-years'
                    non-attendance." And so on, in great number, could instances be given.
            Another side-light is furnished by the following. When the 
                        Cumberland
                     Presbyterian Church merged with the First Presbyterian Church on January 12, 1910, John
                    Hall Woods was chosen organist, and served as such until he left for Indiana University in September
                    of that year. Since that time a very capable organist, Mrs. Blanch Burton Redman has been in charge.
                    On November 1, 1922, Mrs. Roderick Munford was chosen Choir Director and those troubled waters were
                    quickly smoothed and now run peacefully on, to the joy of the whole congregation.
            Cleanliness is next to godliness. This church has had the service of many janitors to light the
                    candles, make the fires, sweep out and ring the bell. One of these deserves special mention. Levi D.
                    Walker, who officiated in the first and second buildings, was a crabbed, cross-grained, cross-eyed
                    carpenter. He probably was an honest man, and paid his debts. But he was an odd character, peculiar
                    and arbitrary, positive in opinion and very frank in expressing it and likewise original in speech
                    and in action. In Walker's day a small melodeon was used by the choir. Walker did not
                    approve of this. He had no ear for music. He had no conscientious scruples against using such
                    mechanical aids as spectacles to his vision when he read his Bible, but the use of a musical
                    instrument of any kind as an aid to the voice in singing psalms and hymns of praise, he regarded
                    "as an abomination unto the Lord." In those days there was a fine choir when all
                    the members were present. Notable singers in the choir were Messrs. 
                        Henderson
                     and 
                        Brown
                    —teachers in the schools—one a tenor and one a bass, and Mrs.
                    Hall, wife of Judge Hall, a soprano. Besides these there were others. It happened more than once
                    when special music had been practiced for a special occasion, and all the singers were on hand, that
                    the little old melodeon was dumb as an oyster. It would not make a sound. The general belief was
                    that old Levi had fixed it. He would sit in his place in the second seat behind the stove on the
                    north side of the Church and never turn his head, as everyone else did, to see  what was the matter. It was not necessary. The old scamp knew. He moved
                    to 
                        Evansville
                     about 1862, at which time he shook the dust off his feet not only of 
                        Princeton
                     but also of the Presbyterian church. Meeting a well known citizen, Levi said: 
                        "Well, I have done one thing the Devil never did." "What is that,
                            Mr. Walker?" "I have left the Presbyterian Church."20
                  
                    
                
            Perhaps too much time has been occupied in writing about bricks and mortar. The real church that has
                    been an influence for righteousness in this community is constituted of the men and women who
                    established and maintained it. The little band of thirteen grew slowly and steadily and surely. Only
                    four of the original thirteen seem to have moved away. The others, with remarkable fidelity, stuck
                    to their church and to Gibson county. With steadfast and unwavering loyalty, certain families
                    represented in the early church have continued in the church of their fathers, not only to the
                    second and third generations, but in some cases even to the fourth and fifth generations. In all
                    these years there has been no startling growth at any one time, but a safe and steadily increase,
                    commensurate with the development of the city and community.
            The people of this congregation have been intelligent, industrious, self-supporting, patriotic and
                    law-abiding. What was said of the war record of the members of the Reformed Church is equally true
                    here. They have been and are today a sociable, kindhearted and hospitable people, ever ready to
                    extend a helping hand, and to spend time and money for the public good. Their lives are inseparably
                    connected with the history of 
                        Princeton
                    . Here they have lived and worked and paid their taxes; here they have loved and married
                    and reared their children; and here many have died and been buried and have entered unto the rest
                    that remaineth for the people of God.
            Beginning with the year 1800, there were many revivals among the Presbyterian churches over the
                    country, especially in 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    , which brought into service many catechists and exhorters who were neither highly
                    educated 
                  
                     20 Paxton, Address.
               
                     nor sound believers in the peculiar doctrines of the
                    Presbyterian Church. The controversy over these doctrines brought about the secession of the
                    Presbytery of 
                        Cumberland
                    , from the Synod of 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1806, and resulted in 1810 in the formation of the 
                        Cumberland
                     Presbyterian Church.
            The first Church of this branch of Presbyterianism in Gibson county was organized by Rev. William
                    Barnett in August 1817, at the place of worship of the Methodists at 
                        Shiloh
                    , in 
                        Washington
                     township, a few miles northeast of 
                        Princeton
                    . It was known as the "Patoca Society." By many it is contended that
                    this was the first 
                        Cumberland
                     Presbyterian Church formed in Indiana. This congregation later met at Mt. Zion and at 
                        Mt. Pleasant
                    . William Archer, pioneer from 
                        South Carolina
                    , and brother of the Thomas Archer who was joint founder of the Reformed (Covenanter)
                    Presbyterian Church in 1810, was one of the organizers.
            The 
                        Princeton
                        Cumberland
                     Presbyterian Church was an outgrowth of the Patoka Church, and was established by Rev.
                    Hiram A. Hunter on December 22, 1832. The Patoka church soon disbanded, March 8, 1836 and its
                    members united with the 
                        Princeton
                     church. For all practical purposes, the 
                        Princeton
                     church was a continuation of the "Patoca Society."21
            
            The first Session record, March 28, 1833, was devoted to the trial of one Edwin McClure for
                    falsehood, resulting in his suspension from the privileges of the church. The next record of the
                    Session was on June 26, 1836, when William Archer appears as an Elder. There is nothing to indicate
                    just when he was elected. In fact the records show big gaps, and what do appear are carelessly
                    written. Cases of discipline predominate. This meeting of June, 1836, has to do with Martha Neely on
                    the subject of dancing. She admitted the charge and said she was likely to dance again when
                    opportunity offered, whereupon she was suspended from membership.
            Isaac Montgomery was elected Elder on December 22, 1842;22 and that same year
                    Joseph H. Montgomery was appointed to collect the subscriptions made for the building of a new
                    church, and he and John Braselton were chosen "to fix 
                  
                     21 The first members were: John C. Warrick, Lain W. Posey, and Daniel
                            Zimmerman, Elders. and Louisa Warrick. Delilah Posey, Emaline Posey, Manerva Posey. Suannah
                            Hunter, Jane Neely, Elizabeth Arbuthnot, William Archer, Ann Peters (wife of William
                            Archer), William Peters and Jane Peters, his wife, Eliza Thomas and John Burlen.
                  
                     22 William Archer way still an Elder on July 23, 1842; thereafter his
                            name ceases to appear on the records.
               
                     and levy a tax on the property of the members of the 
                        Princeton
                     Society according to the ‘advelorum sistim’."
            In 1870, the members living in the Patoka River neighborhood, near where the
                    "Patoca Society" was first organized in 1817, withdrew from the 
                        Princeton
                     church and built their own house of worship in the town of Patoka, four miles north.
            The outstanding minister of the 
                        Princeton
                        Cumberland
                     church was Rev. John E. Jenkins. He began his labors in 1857 and for more than thirty
                    years was its faithful pastor. During the last half of the nineteenth century, he was, beyond all
                    question, the best known minister in Gibson county.
            The congregation occupied a small brick church on East Emerson street between Gibson and Seminary
                    streets, where it worshiped until 1873, when an exchange was made with the Evangelical St.
                    Peter's Church for the brick building at 
                        Broadway
                     and Prince streets, sold by the First Reformed Presbyterian church in 1858. This church
                    building was replaced in the eighties by a more commodious brick structure, facing on 
                        Broadway
                    , which was occupied until the Union with the Presbyterian church.
            In January, 1910, the 
                        Cumberland
                     Presbyterian Church united with the Presbyterian church, the united body became the
                    First Presbyterian Church of 
                        Princeton
                    , and the church property at 
                        Broadway
                     and Prince (what it had secured from the Evangelical St. Peter's Church in
                    1873) was sold to the Christian church.
            This 
                        Cumberland
                     Presbyterian body was a strong congregation in its day, numbering among its adherents
                    many of the prominent families in the community. There were Archers and Woodses here, too, holding
                    influential positions in the church organization. But the time for consolidation of effort came and
                    the union resulted with great good.
            The 
                        German
                     Evangelical or Evangelical St. Peter's Church of 
                        Princeton
                     was organized in the early fifties. Being the only church home available to the 
                        German
                     immigrants who settled in and around 
                        Princeton
                    , there were included within its fold members of all the different branches of the
                    Lutheran Church, and the church was known as Lutheran, Reformed Lutheran, Evangelical Lutheran, etc.
                    Since 1879, the church has been Evangelical. Its system of doctrine was always Presbyterian. For
                    many years it remained an independent  congregation, but about
                    1879, it was received into membership of the Indiana district conference of the Evangelical Synod of
                    America.
            In 1858, the church bought of the First Reformed Presbyterian Church (then moving into a new
                    location) the building at 
                        Broadway
                     and Prince streets, where it worshiped until 1873, when it exchanged this property to
                    the 
                        Cumberland
                     Presbyterian church for its brick church building on Emerson street between Gibson and
                    Seminary. The brick building was subsequently torn down and a new church and parsonage erected upon
                    the site.
            
               
                        Princeton
                     being a Scotch-Irish and not a 
                        German
                     community, the congregation was never large or powerful. It was merely a home for 
                        German
                     immigrants, and the service until late years was confined to the 
                        German
                     language. The recent generation not speaking 
                        German
                    , the congregation dwindled to fifty-six members. Many having already affiliated with
                    other churches, it disbanded in 1921 and most of its members transferred to the First Presbyterian
                        Church.23
            
            Thus, in the year 1930, after three divisions, three dissolutions, and six mergers, the eleven
                    distinctive Presbyterian congregations in 
                        Princeton
                     have gradually developed into the three bodies that yet remain active in the vineyard
                    of the Master, namely, the United Presbyterian, the First Presbyterian and the Reformed (Covenanter)
                    Presbyterian.
            In bringing to a close this paper upon "Presbyterianism in 
                        Princeton
                    , Indiana, from 1810 to 1930," a period of 120 years, from the pioneer
                    settlements in the unbroken forest to the days of radio, telegraph, telephone, automobiles,
                    aeroplanes, and all the comforts and luxuries of civilization, one cannot but be forcibly reminded
                    that wondrous changes have taken place. How many people have come and gone. How many have laughed
                    for joy, how many been broken by sorrow and mourning. How many have fallen by the way, how many have
                    triumphed and sung songs of victory.
            It is not too much to say that the moral character and high standing of the entire 
                        Princeton
                     community were largely shaped and controlled by this sterling Scotch-Irish Presbyterian
                    people, for no community in Southwestern Indiana has 
                  
                     23 Its board of elders at the time of dissolution were: William
                            Toelle, Phillip Leaser, Henry H. Nickamp and John Partenheimer, Mr. Toelle, in 1924, became
                            an elder in the First Presbyterian Church.
               
                     shown a higher religious temperament or a finer grade of
                    integrity and intelligence than that of Presbyterian 
                        Princeton
                    . 
                        Princeton
                    , therefore, is what it is, clean, moral, intelligent, refined, patriotic, to a large
                    extent because of its Scotch-Irish people and its Presbyterianism through more than a century of
                    history.
         
         
         
            Distribution of the Birthplaces of Indianians in 1870
            By STEPHEN S. VISHER
            
            In an attempt to discover the underlying conditions which led to the contrasts among Indiana counties
                    in the yield of certain types of prominent persons born about 1871, a study has been made of the
                    distribution of the birthplaces of the white population of Indiana as revealed by the Federal Census
                    of 1870. The data for each county, shown in Figures 3 to 9, were obtained by using the total native,
                    that is, American-born, population of the county as the divisor and the number reported in the
                    census as having been born outside the state, (e.g., in 
                        Kentucky
                    ), as the dividend. The total population and the total foreign-born population were used
                    as dividends in Figures 1 and 2, respectively. As the notables studied were all native whites, the
                    foreign-born were neglected in most of this study despite the fact that they were the parents of a
                    fraction of the next generation, and hence of some of the younger persons sketched in Who's Who in America.
            In 1870, there were few foreign-born persons in Indiana. In only three counties did the foreign-born
                    form as much as 20 per cent. of the population; the highest percentage was 28; eight counties had
                    from 16 to 19 per cent., inclusive, and only two others had over 12 per cent. The counties with more
                    than 15 per cent. foreign-born were scattered over the State (Fig. 1). Furthermore several counties
                    with the highest percentages of foreign-born were adjacent to those with a low percentage. In the
                    central section of the state, most counties, with the exception of 
                        Marion
                     and 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , had only 2 or 3 per cent. foreign-born, which was also true of several counties in the
                    unglaciated section of the State and of several northern counties. 
                        Lake County
                     had only 3 per cent. which was less than 1-8 the ratio in 1900 and 1-12 the ratio in
                    1910. The figures in the lower right hand part of each county on Fig. 1 give the percentage in that
                    county. The shading increases 
                  
                     1 S. S. Visher, "Contrasts Among Indiana Counties in their
                            Yield of Prominent persons In Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of
                            Science, XXXVIII, 1929, pp 217-224. see also Visher, "Geography of American
                            Notables", in Indiana University Studies, No. 79, 1928.
               
                    
                    
                  Fig. 1. Percentage of foreign-born population, 1870 Census, Vandeburgh, Laporte, Porter
                            Counties, 20-28; Allen, 
                                Dearborn
                            . Dubois, 19; 
                        Marion, Tippecanoe, Ripley
                     , Floyd, 16-18.
               
                     in intensity with increased percentages. Since the exact
                    figures are not discernible in the blackened counties, the legend gives them either exactly or
                    approximately.
            Most of the foreign-born living in Indiana in 1870 were born in 
                        Ireland
                    , but the distribution of the Irish departed significantly from that of the total group
                    of foreign-born. Figure 2 shows that the Irish formed the largest percentage of the foreign-born in
                    those counties which had few foreigners. In nearly a dozen counties in the central part of the state
                    from 40 to 70 per cent. of the foreign-born were Irish. In 
                        Tippecanoe
                     alone of those counties with relatively many foreigners were there as many as 1-3 of
                    the foreign-born Irish.
            The remaining Figures deal only with the native American, population. The percentages are closely
                    similar to the percentages for the total population, however, except in the few counties which had a
                    considerable number of foreign-born. Any one desiring the percentage of emigrants from any state
                    discussed below in the total population of a county can readily obtain the approximate number by
                    reducing the percentage given in the following discussion and Figures by the percentage of
                    foreign-born. Since in most of the counties only about 2 or 3 per cent. of the people were
                    foreign-born, the number born in some other State, for example 
                        Kentucky
                    , usually forms 1-50 or 1-33 less than the per cent. shown in Figure 4. Since even in
                    the counties having most Kentuckians, they comprised only about 15 per cent. of the population a
                    reduction of this percentage by 1-50 or whatever figure is required is so slight as seldom to be of
                    importance statistically.
            Figure 3 shows that in 1870, in almost all counties of the southern third of the state, three-fourths
                    or more of the American-born population were born in Indiana; in the central third of the State
                    nearly three-fourths were Hoosiers, while in the northern third, only about three-fifths on the
                    average were Hoosiers. The extensions of the darker shading on the eastern and western margins of
                    southern Indiana reflect the earlier settlement of these sections. 
                        Brown County
                     with only 59 per cent. Hoosiers forms an interesting exception. Its Relatively low
                    percentage indicates that many of the early settlers had emigrated. Fig. 5 suggests that many sold
                    out to people from 
                        Ohio
                    .
            The percentage of the American-born population of 1870 
                    
                  Fig. 2. Percentage of foreign-born who were Irish, 1870 Census, Deleware, 
                                Madison
                            , Rush Counties, 50-59; 
                                Daviess
                            , 60, Union, 64; Scott, 
                                Putnam
                            , Hendricks, 
                                Montgomery
                            , 65-70.
               
                     born in 
                        Kentucky
                     is shown in Fig. 4. As might be expected, most of the counties bordering 
                        Kentucky
                     had a relatively large number of Kentuckians, from 7 to 18 per cent. of their total
                    population. Northward from this tier of counties, along the less rugged belts followed by railroads,
                    were three extensions with Kentuckians relatively numerous; one just east of the unglaciated area,
                    northward from 
                        Louisville
                    , another up the Limestone Plain, and the third on the west of the unglaciated area. A
                    group of counties in the southwestern central part of the state from Johnson to 
                        Montgomery
                     had from 8 to 16 per cent. Kentuckians. In the northeastern half of the state, in few
                    counties was more than one per cent. of the population born in 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            Emigration from 
                        Ohio
                     into Indiana, as shown by the 1870 census, was most extensive in the northeastern
                    counties (Fig 5). In twenty counties in that section from 20 to 30 per cent. of the population had
                    come from 
                        Ohio
                    . With a few exceptions, the percentage decreased rather uniformly westward and
                    southward from the northeastern corner of the state. The most conspicious exception in Fig. 5 is 
                        Brown County
                    , with 21 per cent. from 
                        Ohio
                     in 1870. 
                        Clay
                     and 
                        Vanderburgh
                     had 17 and 15 per cent. respectively. But in most of the other southwestern counties,
                    natives of 
                        Ohio
                     comprised only a small percentage of the population.
            Natives of 
                        New York State
                     were largely confined to the northern tier of counties, where they comprised from 8 to
                    12 per cent. of the native American population, and to adjacent counties along the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     borders. Most of the central and south-central counties contained almost no New
                    Yorkers. (Fig. 6)
            The natives of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     were found at the 1870 census to be most numerous in the northern third of the state,
                    where in most of the counties, however, the percentage fell to less than 5, and in three northern
                    counties there were almost no natives of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . In the southern part of the state, Fig. 7 shows an appreciable number of
                    Pennsylvanians in 
                        Posey County
                    , (8 per cent.), due largely to the 
                        Pennsylvania
                    -
                        German
                     Rappite settlement at and near 
                        New Harmony
                    .
            The distribution in Indiana of natives of 
                        Virginia
                     and West 
                        Virginia
                     is given in Fig. 8. As West 
                        Virginia
                     had been separated from 
                        Virginia
                     only shortly before the 1870 census, 
                    
                  Fig. 3. Percentage of native American population born in Indiana, 1870 Census. High counties: 
                                Ohio
                            , 87. Dubois, 87, 
                                Washington
                            , 86, 
                                Orange
                            . 84. 
                                Pike
                            , 84, Harrison, 83, Crawford, 82, Jackson, 82, Gibson, 79. 
                                Franklin
                            , 79.
               
                     the returns from the two areas are confused. Many people, even
                    those sketched in Who's Who that were born in what is now West 
                        Virginia
                    , but which was at the time of their birth a part of 
                        Virginia
                    , gave 
                        Virginia
                     as their native state. Natives of 
                        Virginia
                     and West 
                        Virginia
                     were found in 1870 chiefly in a belt across Indiana a short distance north of the
                    National Road. They were relatively most numerous in the eastern part of this belt, where in 
                        Randolph County
                     they comprised 9 per cent. of the population and in adjacent counties 5 to 6 per cent.
                    The chief exceptions are 
                        Porter County
                    , on Lake Michigan, with 6 per cent., and 
                        Harrison County
                     on the Ohio River with 3 per cent. In most of the other counties
                    of the state they comprise less than 2 per cent., and in many, less than 1.
            The percentage of the native population born in other states than those already discussed (Indiana,
                            
                  Ohio, Kentucky, New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia
                and West 
                        Virginia
                    ) is shown in Fig. 9. Only ten of the ninety-two counties had more than one-eighth of
                    their native American population born in other states, and only two had over 16 per cent. (Starke
                    21; Lake 18). The relatively slight tendency for people to move eastward in the 
                        United States
                     prior to 1870 is shown by the small representation of natives of 
                        Illinois
                     in Indiana, through the tier of counties bordering 
                        Illinois
                     contained an appreciable number. Similarly the counties nearest 
                        Michigan
                     contained an appreciable percentage of the natives of 
                        Michigan
                    . Other states with an appreciable representation in Indiana were 
                        Tennessee
                     (largely in the southwest) and 
                        North Carolina
                     (particularly in the central part). Natives of 
                        New England
                     made up only 1-170 of the native population of Indiana in 1870 (0. 58 + per
                    cent.—11,220 persons). They were widely scattered but most numerous in the northeastern
                    eighth of the state.
            Having considered the contrasts among the counties in their percentages of people born in other
                    states or in foreign lands, it is interesting to determine whether correlations are suggested with
                    the distribution of the persons sketched in Who's Who in America (Vol.
                    15, 1927). The contrasts among the counties in their yield of these notables are shown in Fig. 10,
                    which is from the "Geography of American Notables." This map is based on total
                    population. In the following discussion 
                    
                  Fig. 4. Percentage of native American population born in 
                                Kentucky
                            , 1870 Census, High counties: Clark, 18, Johnson, 16, 
                                Spencer
                            , 15, 
                                Benton
                            . 14, 
                                Putnam
                            , 14, 
                                Vanderburgh
                            , 13, 
                                Warrick
                            . 12.
               
                     a new map, based on native American population alone is used.
                    This fact will explain some slight discrepancies in regard to a few of the counties which had a
                    considerable number of foreign-born.
            Foreign-born: Counties with 15 per cent. or more of foreign-born which yielded relatively many Who's Who notables (1 per 700 to 1400 native-born population) are
                            
                  Vanderburgh, Marion, Tippecanoe
               , Allen, Laporte, and 
                        Dearborn
                    , nearly all of which had a considerable urban population. However 
                        Perry
                     and 
                        Ripley Counties
                     with 15+ per cent. foreign-born, but with no cities, yielded comparatively
                    very few notables. Likewise most counties yielding relatively many notables contained very few
                    foriegn-born. Hence no close correlation is evident between the distribution of foreign-born and the
                    yield of notables.
            Kentuckians: Two counties of the nine having 10 per cent. or more of their native American population
                    born in 
                        Kentucky
                     yielded relatively many notables. They were Putman and Johnson with 1 per 1,000 and 1
                    per 900 respectively. But most of the counties with a comparatively high percentage of Kentuckians
                    had a distinctly small yield and nearly all of the counties yielding relatively many notables
                    contained few Kentuckians.
            Ohioans: The counties containing relatively many natives of 
                        Ohio
                     (20 to 30 per cent., black in Fig. 5) for the most part had a fairly large yield of
                    notables. 
                        Wells
                     and 
                        DeKalb Counties
                    , however, did poorly and Jay County, with 30 per cent. Ohioans, very poorly. 
                        Brown County
                    , with 21 per cent. of Ohioans, produced even fewer. On the other hand, a number of the
                    counties which yielded relatively many notables contained in 1870 few Ohioans. Hence the correlation
                    between Ohioans and the yield of notables is not great.
            New Yorkers: A close correlation is suggested between the distribution of natives of 
                        New York
                     and the yield of notables since all of the counties except 
                        Lake County
                    , with more than 5 per cent. of their population consisting of New Yorkers yielded
                    relatively many notables (1 per 1,300 to 2,200 population. Several other counties with 3 or 4 per
                    cent. of their native American population from 
                        New York
                     also did conspicuously well. On the other hand, most of the counties which 
                    
                  Fig. 5. Percentage of native American population born in 
                                Ohio
                            , 1870 Census. 
                                Steuben
                            . Noble, Dekalb, 
                                Kosciusko
                            , Jay, 30; 
                                Whitley
                            , Wells, 
                                Randolph
                            , 28-29: 
                                Brown
                            , 21.
               
                     yielded a comparatively large number of notables contained less
                    than 1 per cent. of New Yorkers in 1870.
            Pennsylvanians: The counties with more than 6 per cent. of their population born in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     include several which contained relatively many New Yorkers and were distinctly
                    productive of notables. Other counties with a similar percentage of Pennsylvanians yielded many
                    notables. Thus while a correlation is suggested by the fact that the northeastern part of the state,
                    which contained most Pennsylvanians, did relatively well in yielding notables, nevertheless a
                    correlation is not established.
            Virginians: The five counties blackened in Fig. 8 as having more than 5 per cent of tseir population
                    born in 
                        Virginia
                     or West 
                        Virginia
                     each yielded notables at less than the average. The average rate for the five is
                    considerably below the state average. The twenty counties with 3 or 4 per cent. of their population
                    from 
                        Virginia
                     or West 
                        Virginia
                     also averaged less than the state average and include only five which are much better
                    than the state average.
            People from elsewhere: Fig. 9 showing the distribution of persons born in states other than Indiana,
                            
                  Ohio, Kentucky, Pennsylvania, Virginia
                or West 
                        Virginia
                     also suggests a correlation with the yield of notables in proportion to population.
                    Except for four western counties, Starke, Lake, 
                        Vermillion
                    , and Martin and one eastern county, Wells, the blackened counties of Fig. 9 almost all
                    yielded more than the state average of notables, and some of them did exceptionally well. The
                    further fact that only one of the counties (Johnson) which yielded notables at the rate of 1 per
                    1,200 or less contained fewer than the average number of persons from these other states is also
                    suggestive. Apparently the counties which received relatively many people from afar obtained a
                    fairly large proportion of the parents of notables.
            Conclusion: The distribution of the natives of other states among the Indiana counties in proportion
                    to population at the 1870 census was far from uniform. The contrasts disclosed by Figs. 1 to 9
                    doubtless had significant effects on local ideals, architecture, politics, schools, and other social
                    institutions. These social contrasts have not been dealt with here. A number of maps previously
                    published showing contrasts among Indiana counties in the use made of the land, in types of
                    improvements, 
                    
                  Fig. 6. Percentage of native American population born in 
                                New York
                            , 1870 Census. High counties: 
                                Steuben
                            , 12, Laporte. 11, Porter, 10, Lake, 9.
               
                    
                    
                  Fig. 7. Percentage of native American population born in 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , 1870 Census, High counties: 
                                Elkhart
                            , 13, 
                                Lagrange
                            , 12, Allen. 9, Dekalb, 9, 
                                St. Joseph
                            , 8. Koseiusko, 8. Posey. 8.
               
                    
                    
                  Fig. 8. Percentage of native American born in 
                                Virginia
                             or West 
                                Virginia
                            , 1870 Census. The only county with more than 6 per cent. was 
                                Randolph
                             with 9 per cent.
               
                    
                    
                  Fig. 9. Percentage of native American population born in states other than Ind., O., Ky., N.
                            Y. Pa., or W. Va., 1870 Census. High counties: Starke, 21, Lake, 18, 
                                Fayette
                            . 16, Lagranae, 16, 
                                Vermillion
                            . 15, Noble 14, Henry, 14, Hendricka 14, Martin, 14, Allen, 13.
               
                    
                    
                  Fig. 10. Contrasts among Indiana counties in their yield of persons sketched in Who's Who in America 1927. Figures are thousands of persons in county in
                            1870 per notable born there.
               
                     in yield of criminals, in school attendance and graduation, in
                    teachers' salaries, in yield of criminals and other mental defectives, and in death
                        rates2 have been compared, however, with Figs. 1 to 9 and in a considerable
                    number of instances suggest that significant correlations exist. Even more striking correlations
                    seem to exist between the contrasts among counties in politics and in per capita wealth in 1870, but
                    the maps showing these are not yet published. An article dealing with these other contrasts is in
                    preparation. Here, however, comparisons are made with a map of the yield of persons sketched in Who's Who in America (Vol. 14, 1927) in proportion to native American
                    population at the 1870 census (the census nearest the date of birth of the average person sketched
                    in that volume of Who's Who in America). These comparisons suggest that
                    the natives of certain states, especially the more remote ones to the east and northeast, were the
                    parents of a larger share of Hoosier notables than were the natives of certain other states, 
                        Kentucky
                    , for example.
            
               
                  2 Visher, papers in the Proceedings of the Academy of
                        Science, as follows: "Some Contrasts between Geographic Regions in
                        Indiana," 1922, pp. 99-104; Geographic Variations in Indiana in Typhoid, Tuberculosis,
                        Cancer, and in Total Deaths", 1923. pp. 55-61; "Variations among Indiana
                        Counties in Land Values and Roads", 1924, pp. 147-54: Further Studies in Death Rates in
                        Indiana", 1924, pp. 154-56; "Geography of Indiana Agriculture", 1927,
                        pp. 101-16; "Contrasts among Indiana Counties in their Yield of Prominent
                        Persons", 1929. pp. 217-24. See Also Visher. Economic Geography of
                        Indiana (
                            New York
                        , 1923). for 110 maps showing geographie contrasts in Indiana.
            
         
         
         
            Disposal of Negro Slaves by Will in 
                        Knox County
                    , Indiana1
            
            By EARL E. MCDONALD
            
            The introduction of negro slavery into Indiana came during the years of the French occupancy and
                    continued for many years after the English and the 
                        United States
                     came into control.2 It might naturally be expected that 
                        Vincennes
                    , county seat of 
                        Knox county
                    , the oldest settlement in the state, inhabited largely by French people who had held
                    slaves before the Revolution and prior to the passage of the Ordinance of 1787, would be the center
                    of slave-holding in Indiana during the territorial period and the early years of statehood. An
                    examination of the 
                        Knox County
                    
                    Will Record A, the first volume of probated wills, going back to the opening of
                    the nineteenth century, reveals the following cases where negro slaves were disposed of by will.
            The will of Hugh McGary, admitted to probate in the May term of 1806, after providing for the
                    division of land between the three sons, further declares: 
                        I also give to my Wife Mary Ann, my Black Mare, to hold as her own Property, also one half of
                            all my sheep, also one half of my household furniture to hold as her own property. I also
                            desire that my two Negro women, Tenar and Poll, bound to me by indenture, shall be the
                            Slaves of my Wife Mary Ann during the term of seven years to assist in Supporting my young
                            Family and at the Expiration of said term of seven years I desire that they shall be free,
                            and their indentures given up to them, But if my Wife Mary Ann should not continue to hold
                            possession of the land above mentioned and Support my young Family on the same, it is my
                            will that she shall be deprived of all the benefits arising from, or interest in, said land,
                            also of the two Negro Women Tenar and Poll, but the same shall be left to the discretion of
                            my Executor. 
                        
                           1 The quotations appearing in the following pages have been
                                    copied from early wills of 
                                        Knox County
                                    . An attempt has been made to retain the exact spelling and punctuation
                                    found in the records. The writer wishes to express his appreciation for the
                                    assistance rendered to him by Mr. J. L. Blaize, Clerk of the 
                                        Knox County
                                     Circuit Court at 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , who made the records available.
                        
                           2 Harris. Negro Servitude in 
                                            Illinois
                                        
                           , PP. 6-7; W. H. Smith, History of Indiana.
                                    I, pp. 131-132.
                     
                             … I also leave my Negro girl Charlotte to my
                            daughter Elizabeth, until she, said Charlotte, attains her freedom by law.3
                  
                    
                
            The will of James Ledgewood, written and witnessed in 1806, admitted to probate in the March term of
                    1807, provided that "the negro girl Nancy my Wife is to have." It was signed and
                    sealed by Ledgewood in the presence of John Haddan and In Ackiltree.
            Jonathan Lathrom provided in his will, which was drawn in 1809 and admitted to probate the same year,
                    that "my Servant Jacob [is] to serve the five children one year a piece … and if
                    the said Jacob is not willing to serve with any of them that in that case they shall hire him out,
                    and them that don't see cause to keep him may have the same privilege. After five years is
                    out, my Servant Jacob to go free."4
            
            A clause in the will of William McClure, which was written in 1811 and admitted to probate the next
                    year, states: "But may it be well understood that my youngest daughter Caroline
                    Jane—being a Tender Child shall receive over and above her divide two young Negroz Known
                    in my family by name Charlotte and Abraham."5
            
            Jacob Warrick's will of the same year, 1811, also probated in 1812, declared that
                    "It is to be particularly understood that my Wife has possession of the farm on which she
                    now lives, and that my Negroes be sold and the money laid out in land for my children."6
            
            John McClure, who drew his will in 1813, disposed of his negroes according to the following items:
                        
                        Item 2nd. It is my desire that my beloved wife Jane McClure have my Negro man Aaron and my
                            Negro woman Sarah…. It is my desire that Elizabeth McClure my third daughter have
                            one Negro girl named Esther, and one Negro Boy Named Harry…. Item 4. It is my
                            desire that my youngest son John McClure have my farm … two Negro Boys known by
                            Names Edmon and Will…. Item 5th. It is my desire that my Negro Man Frank be sold
                            immediately after my decease 
                        
                           3 The territorial law of 1807 provided that negro slaves could
                                    be brought into Indiana and "indentured" for any definite term of
                                    service. The indentures must be recorded by the clerk of the common pleas court.
                                    Children of such negroes were to serve to the age of thirty-five or thirty-two,
                                    according to whether male or female. See Territorial Laws of 1807 or Hurd, Law of Freedom and Bondage, 11, pp. 124-125.
                        
                           4
                                    
                              
                                            Knox County
                                         Will Record A, p. 20. The witnesses to this will were James
                                    and Ralph Shetton (Shelton?).
                        
                           5
                                    Ibid., p. 46. The witnesses were Dan McClure, James Scott and
                                    Charles Scott.
                        
                           6
                                    Ibid., p. 46. Reuben Alsop and John Warrick witnessed this
                                will.
                     
                             and the money arising therefrom to be applied to the
                            payment of my debts.7
                  
                    
                
            In 1813 the will of Henry Vanderburgh, who had been one of the Superior Judges in the Indiana
                    Territory, was admitted to probate. The will, drawn in 1804, contained the following provision:
                        
                        I then give and bequeath unto my Wife Francoise my house in 
                                Vincennes
                             …. and the use of all furniture therein—with the four
                            lots of ground thereunto belonging, my two slaves Daniel and Peg, my two Indented Servants
                            Morday and Sam….8
                  
                    
                
            The will of William Embry, written in 1815 and probated the same year, was unusual: 
                        I give and bequeath unto my Negroes the Balance of my property [not otherwise disposed of],
                            each one to have the property now in their possession as alloted to them by a Division by me
                            formerly made, further it is my will and desire that the Two Hundred and Seventeen Dollars
                            by me devised to my Brother Henry Embry, my Negro Man Cesar have until demanded by my said
                            Brother or his Legal Representative.9
                  
                    
                
            The last will disposing of negro slaves in 
                        Knox County
                     before the adoption of the State Constitution was that of Toupant Dubois, Sr. It bears
                    date of June 5, 1815, and was admitted to probate in April, 1816. In it the following item occurs:
                        
                        I will and it is my desire that my wife have the services of one Negro Man named Gabriel and
                            Anne his wife until the youngest child named Jepse Hilgore Duboiz arrives at the age of
                            twenty years—and then in the opinion of my said wife (and the custom of the
                            country permit) that the said People of Colour is able to make a Comfortable living they are
                            to be free—if not they are to be assisted out of my property during their life
                            time…. It is also my desire that none of the Negroes now in my family be sold so
                            as to be obliged to serve out of the family unless for criminal conduct.10
                  
                    
                
            Disposal of negro slaves by will continued after the organization of a state government in 1816. The
                    will of John 
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., p. 61. The witnesses to this will, which was probated in 1814, were
                            Samuel Emison and Dan McClure.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., p. 65. The witnesses were John Rice Jones, Christopher Wyant, and
                            He, Hurst.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., p. 71. In this instance the witnesses were William Polke, Richard
                            Cox, and David Chambers.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., p. 75. The witnesses were Bobt. Baird and William Barnes. The name
                            of the maker of this will was probably "Toussaint Dubois".
               
                     Johnson, written and admitted to probate in 1817, contains the
                    following provision: 
                        I give to my black boy named Nero, the like sum of eighty dollars, when he arrives at the age
                            of thirty-three years, which is the time he is bound to serve by the law of the late Indiana
                            Territory, under which he was brought here by my father-which bequest to my said black boy
                            Nero is only upon the express condition that he continues with my wife Peggy Johnson, and
                            shall be to her a true and faithful and obedient servant until he arrives at the age of
                            thirty-three years as aforesaid and providing his conduct during such servitude shall be
                            perfectly satisfactory….11
                  
                    
                
            Another will drawn in 1817, but not admitted to probate until 1821, was that of John Small. It
                    contained the following: 
                        It is further my will that my Negro women Judah and Nancy with my black boy George and Negro
                            Girl Queen Ann should continue for the support of the family and be disposed of for their
                            equal advantage. I will and bequeath to my daughter Angelina Small my Negro Girls Mary J.
                            [&] Sarah.12
                  
                    
                
            The will of Nancy Jennings Withers was drawn and admitted to probate in the year 1823.13 The following provision does not make clear whether the slave mentioned was actually in 
                        Knox County
                     or in 
                        Virginia
                    : 
                        The property above alluded to consists of the right title interest ……
                            to a certain tract …. of ground, Situate in …. 
                                Virginia
                             near the village of 
                                Salem
                            , also the right title or claim to a Negro Man called James which formerly
                            belonged to the Estate of my reverred Grandfather.14
                  
                    
                
            The wills above listed mention twenty-eight slaves or indentured servants in the plural number, but
                    without definite statements as to names or numbers. It may be fairly assumed that these wills do not
                    give an account of all the slaves in 
                        Knox County
                    , inasmuch as some slaveholders, in all probability, died intestate. According to one
                    writer, the last slave in Indiana died in the year 1843.15
            
            
               
                  11
                        Ibid., p. 92. This will was signed in the presence of Patrick Simpson, Abram
                        Rodarmely, and E. McNamee.
               
                  12
                        Ibid., p. 116. The witnesses to this will were John Black. William Spencer,
                        and James Hodgens.
               
                  13 The writer believes this will to be the last will drawn in 
                            Knox County
                         which disposed of a negro slave, though he has not gone through the wills admitted
                        to probate after 1830.
               
                  14
                        Ibid., p. 158. James and George Scote (Scott) were witnesses to the will.
               
                  15 Smith, History of Indiana, I. pp. 131-132.
            
         
         
         
            Members of the Indiana Constitutional Convention of 18161
            
            JOHN BADOLLET of 
                        Knox County
                     was a lawyer. He was born in 
                  Geneva,
                            Switzerland
               , and came to Indiana Territory in
                    1800. He was a personal friend of Albert Gallatin. He served as a Judge and Land Officer at 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            PARTICK BAIRD of 
                        Wayne County
                     was a 
                        Quaker
                     who came to Indiana Territory from 
                        North Carolina
                     in 1811. He was a member of the Indiana Senate from 1816 to 1824.
            JOHN BENEFIEL of 
                        Knox County
                     had been a soldier who had reached the rank of Colonel.
            JOHN BOONE of 
                        Harrison County
                     was a lawyer who came to Indiana from 
                        Kentucky
                     during the Territorial period. He was a brother of Daniel Boone. He was a member of the
                    first Legislature.
            JAMES BROWNLEE of 
                        Franklin County
                     came from 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . He was a member of the House of Representatives of the Indiana Legislature for five
                    sessions beginning with the first after admission to the Union.
            THOMAS CARR of Clarke County was born in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , but came to Indiana Territory from 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1804. He was a member of the State Legislature in 1816.
            WILLIAM COTTON of 
                        Switzerland County
                     was a lawyer, who served as a judge.
            
               
                        
                     1 The matter presented above relative to the members of the Convention of
                            1816 was prepared by the Legislative Bureau of the Indiana Library and Historical Department
                            in answer to an inquiry submitted to it. The information it contains is timely and the Indiana Magazine of History publishes it for the benefit of its readers.
                            We are assured that every effort was made in the limited time at the disposal of the
                            investigator to make the table as complete and accurate as possible, though there was no
                            opportunity for extensive research and the information does not purport to be complete nor
                            has the Bureau been able to verify all of the items contained in it.
                        Most of the information was obtained from a biographical card index and various county
                            histories in the Indiana State Library: from W. W. Woollen, Biographical and
                                Historical Sketches (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1883): J. P. Dunn, Indiana and Indianians (
                                Chicago
                             & 
                                New York
                            , 1919) Logan Eaarey, History of Indiana (
                                Fort Wayne
                            , 1924): W. W. Thornton, "Constitutional Convention of 1816,"
                            in Report of State Bar Association, 1912.
                        If anyone has any further information in regard to the members of this Constitutional
                            Convention or knows of any descendants of any of the members who might be able to furnish
                            additional facts, it will be greatly appreciated, if he will write to the Legislative
                            Bureau, 335 State House, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                    
            
            
            JEREMIAH Cox of 
                        Wayne County
                     migrated to Indiana Territory from North Corolina in 1806. He was a 
                        Quaker
                    .
            HUGH CULL of 
                        Wayne County
                     was a Methodist circuit rider.
            JOHN DEPAUW of 
                        Washington County
                     was a merchant. He was born in 
                        Kentucky
                     and came to Indiana Territory from that State. He surveyed and plotted 
                        Salem
                     the county seat of 
                        Washington County
                    . He was a Colonel of militia and many times a member of the State Senate.
            ALEXANDER DEVIN of 
                        Gibson County
                     was a Baptist minister who came to Indiana Territory from 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            JAMES DILL of 
                        Dearborn County
                     was a lawyer who was born in 
                        Ireland
                    . He was a General of militia, and a Speaker of the House in the Territorial Legislature
                    of 1813. He acted as Secretary of the State Senate for many years.
            WILLIAM H. EADS of 
                        Franklin County
                     was a merchant and tanner.
            EZRA FERRIS of 
                        Dearborn County
                     was a Baptist minister who was born in 
                        Connecticut
                     in 1723. He was not only a minister but a school teacher. He also practiced medicine,
                    and was a member of the Legislature in 1816 and 1820.
            DAVIS FLOYD of 
                        Harrison County
                     was a lawyer. He was a judge and a member of the Legislature in 1816. He served under
                    George Rogers Clark and was later a Territorial official.
            JOHN K. GRAHAM of Clarke County was a member of the Legislature in 1816.
            WILLIAM GRAHAM of 
                        Washington County
                     was a land surveyor who migrated from 
                        Kentucky
                    . He was a member of the Indiana Territorial Legislature in 1813 and speaker of the
                    Indiana House of Representatives in 1820. Later he was a member of the National House of
                    Representatives from 1831-1839.
            DANIEL GRASS of 
                        Warrick County
                     was a lawyer. He was born in 
                        Kentucky
                     and came from that State in 1812. He was many tim-es a member of the Legislature of
                    Indiana and served as an associate judge of a circuit.
            
            ROBERT HANNA of 
                        Franklin County
                     was born in 
                        South Carolina
                    . He came to Indiana Territory from that State in 1804. He was a member of the Indiana
                    Legislature in 1816.
            JOSEPH HOLMAN of 
                        Wayne County
                     was born in 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1788 and crossed the 
                        Ohio
                     into the Old Northwest while yet a young boy. He was a member of the Territorial
                    Legislature in 1815 and after Statehood came he remained in the Indiana House of Representatives
                    until 1821. He was at one time a Receiver in a Public Lands Office.
            NATHANIEL HUNT of 
                        Jefferson County
                     was a lawyer. He was a county commissioner and at another time an associate judge of a
                    circuit.
            JONATHAN JENNINGS of Clarke County was a political leader of much force. He was born in 
                        New Jersey
                    , but came to Indiana Territory from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     about 1801. He was the Delegate to Congress from the Territory, the first Governor of
                    Indiana after admission to the Union and afterwards a member of the National House of
                    Representatives.
            JOHN JOHNSON of 
                        Knox County
                     was a lawyer. He was born in 
                        Kentucky
                     but removed to Indiana Territory in 1800. He served in the Territorial Legislature and
                    later in the Legislature of the new State. He was one of three judges who manned the Supreme Court
                    of the State when first organized under the Constitution of 1816.
            DANIEL C. LANE of 
                        Harrison County
                     was a lawyer. He was an associate judge of a circuit and State Treasurer for seven
                    years.
            JAMES LEMON of 
                        Clark County
                     was a lawyer, a captain of militia and a man of prominence in his home community.
            WILLIAM LOWE of 
                        Washington County
                     was a lawyer. Later he filled the office of Clerk in 
                        Monroe County
                    , was a post-master and an associate judge of a circuit.
            DAN LYNN of 
                        Posey County
                     was a lawyer. He came to Indiana Territory in 1796. He served as an officer in the
                    militia, acted as a judge and was a member of the State Legislature during the first session.
            ENOCH MCCARTY of 
                        Franklin County
                     was a lawyer who  settled in Indiana Territory in
                    1803. He was repeatedly a member of the Legislature, and also served as a circuit judge.
            ROBERT MCINTIRE of 
                        Washington County
                     was a lawyer. He served as a county commissioner and also as a member of the State
                    Legislature.
            SOLOMON MANWARING of 
                        Dearborn County
                     was a lawyer. He was born in 
                        Delaware
                     in 1776, and removed from that State to Indiana Territory in 1803. He was a member of
                    the Territorial Council or upper house of the Territorial Legislature from 1810 to 1816 and a judge.
            DAVID H. MAXWELL of 
                        Jefferson County
                     was a physician who was born in 
                        Virginia
                    . He removed to 
                        Monroe County
                     and was one of the founders of Indiana University. For some years he was president of
                    the board of trustees of the institution.
            SAMUEL MILROY of 
                        Washington County
                     was a carpenter. He was born in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in 1780. He became a General of militia. He was a member of the State Legislature
                    during the sessions from 1817 to 1822. He later migrated to 
                        Carroll County
                     where he settled on a farm a short distance east of 
                        Delphi
                    .
            JAMES NOBLE of 
                        Franklin County
                     was a lawyer. He was born in 
                        Virginia
                    , and came to Indiana Territory from 
                        Kentucky
                    . He was a member of the State Legislature during the first session, when he was elected
                    to the Senate of the 
                        United States
                     where he served until 1831.
            BENJAMIN PARKE of 
                        Knox County
                     was a lawyer. He was born in 
                        New Jersey
                     in 1777, and migrated to Indiana Territory in 1801. He was a Territorial Judge,
                    Attorney General, and after the admission of Indiana a member of the lower House of Congress. He
                    started the Supreme Court Library.
            DENNIS PENNINGTON of 
                        Harrison County
                     was born in 
                        Virginia
                    . He came to Indiana Territory from 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1804. He was a friend of Henry Clay and active in politics. He was in the
                    Territorial Legislature several terms, being speaker of the House in 1811 and in 1815.
            
            CHARLES POLKE of 
                        Perry County
                     was a Baptist minister and a lawyer, who served as an associate judge of a circuit.
            WILLIAM POLKE of 
                        Knox County
                     was also a Baptist minister and lawyer. He served as a judge and was a member of the
                    State Legislature of Indiana during the first session.
            FREDERICK RAPP of 
                        Gibson County
                     was an adopted son of George Rapp of 
                        New Harmony
                     (Harmonie) fame. He was one of the commissioners chosen by the Legislature to select
                    the site for the new State Capital (
                        Indianapolis
                    ).
            DAVID ROBB of 
                        Gibson County
                     was born in 
                        Ireland
                     in 1771. He emigrated to 
                        Kentucky
                     and later settled in Indiana Territory in 1800. He was for a time the president of the
                    Territorial Council, or upper House of the Territorial Legislature. He was a close friend of William
                    Henry Harrison.
            JAMES SCOTT of 
                        Clark County
                     was a lawyer. He served in the lower House of the Territorial Legislature in 1813 and
                    was elected Speaker. He was one of the last judges who served Indiana Territory.
            PATRICK SHIELDS of 
                        Harrison County
                     was a lawyer. He was born in 
                        Ireland
                     in 1779. Before coming to Indiana Territory in 1805 he lived first in 
                        Virginia
                     and then in 
                        Kentucky
                    . He served as a judge of the Court of common pleas and was one of the first judges
                    appointed to sit on the bench of the Supreme Court of the State of Indiana.
            JAMES SMITH of 
                        Gibson County
                     was born in 
                        Virginia
                    . At different times he filled the offices of Mayor (of 
                        Princeton
                    ?) School Commissioner and County Surveyor.
            SAMUEL SMOCK of 
                        Jefferson County
                     was a lawyer. He served as an officer of militia and as a judge of a circuit court.
         
         
         
            Documents
            A LETTER OF DANIEL WORTH TO GEORGE W. JULIAN AND OTHER DOCUMENTS
            BY GRACE JULIAN CLARKE
            
            
                    Introduction
                
            Following the Pittsburg convention of 1856, where the new Republican party was nationally launched,
                    Indiana did not at once take her place in the list of States that boldly endorsed the new movement.
                    There were too many Fusionists and Know Nothings here, men who looked rather to immediate success
                    than to the triumph of antislavery principles. The State convention which met in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on May 1, 1856, refused even to adopt the name "Republican,"
                    insisting on being known as the "People's" party, some of its members
                    having been delegates to the national Know Nothing convention which had nominated Millard Fillmore.
            But there was a considerable leaven of genuine antislavery men in the State. Some of these were
                    dyed-in-the-wool Abolitionists of the extreme type, like the writer of the following letter, a
                    minister of the Gospel who afterwards suffered imprisonment in 
                        North Carolina
                     for having circulated "seditious literature," especially
                    Helper's Impending Crisis. Such men performed genuine service in keeping
                    before the people the sin of slavery and by the Christ-like spirit with which they bore persecution.
            The suggestion in Worth's letter in regard to calling another convention to select delegates
                    to 
                        Philadelphia
                     was not acted upon, and the writer's characterization of the Pittsburg
                    platform as "a miserable truckling affair" is a little amusing inasmuch as Julian
                    himself had served as chairman of the committee on organization, the adoption of whose report called
                    the Republican party into existence. As for the platform adopted at Pittsburg, it demanded the
                    freedom of 
                        Kansas
                     and of all our national territories, which meant the restriction of slavery to the
                    States where it already existed and was understood by slaveholders as necessarily paving the way for
                    the  destruction of the institution. It also pledged the new
                    party to work for the overthrow of the Buchanan administration as the ally of slavery. It might have
                    been more emphatic, but in the then state of public opinion it was probably wise not to take a more
                    extreme position.
            That there was much dissatisfaction with the slowness and timidity of some of the leading exponents
                    of the new party movement in Indiana is abundantly shown by the correspondence of George W. Julian.
                    The three documents which follow the Worth letter below are also evidence of the fact. The first
                    communication of the Bidwell brothers occupied the front of a little circular which consisted of a
                    single folded sheet, about the size of ordinary note-paper. It was marked "Private
                    Letter." On the reverse page, written in a clear and delicate hand, was the short personal
                    appeal to Mr. Julian. On page three of the little sheet, with the title in large type appeared the
                    subjects of a series of prospective articles which were to be published during the year 1857 in the
                    proposed weekly paper.
            
               The Western Presage appeared fourteen times only, the last issue on April 4th, and
                    the following day Julian recording in his Journal its demise, said: "It told too much truth
                    in its short life to suit the chief priests and they crucified it. I fear Indiana is politically
                    past praying for." I have often wondered what became of the Bidwell brothers, whose names
                    were Andrew and Solomon—whether they remained in 
                        Indianapolis
                     or went elsewhere, what was the business to which they "re-turned,"
                    and if it proved successful. It would be interesting to know. I wonder, too, if there is in
                    existence a file of those fourteen numbers of their paper, and who were the other contributors. The
                    Indiana State Library ought to have them, but I am told that they are not to be found.
            [THE WORTH LETTER]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Greensboro
                                 ,
                           
                                    May 13, 1856
                                
                        G. W. Julian Esq.
                        Dear Sir:
                        Being at this place this morning I have felt like addressing a hasty note to you
                                    before the mail leaves. I attended the convention at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     the other day and listened and looked on to the wonderful
                                        affair. I came deliberately to the conclusion that it was not the party for
                                    me. A poor miserable truckling concern without either soul or body. I have  just about as much faith in it as I have in 
                                        Franklin
                                     Pierce himself. Look if you please at such leaders as Sol. Meredith,
                                    Dave Kilgore, Charley Test, Bill Gross, D. Zigler, Will Sheets, Martin L. Bundy,
                                    Rawson Vaile!!! There is not any appreciable quantity of Antislavery about a million
                                    of such creatures. All the old Antislavery men who are reliable are opposed to this
                                    contemptible concern. By the by, the late Pittsburg platform itself is a miserable
                                    truckling document, and I say now as I said when my eye first met it, that the man
                                    who represents no higher phase of Antislavery than that document can never get my
                                    vote for office, no never.
                        You will mark the fact that our wise-acres at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     ignored even the name of Republican as well as all antislavery
                                    principle. This was done for the benefit of Knownothings and old fossil Whigs who
                                    have just emanated from their old political graves where they have been
                                    "per-severing to rot," and are now ready to take office at the
                                    hands of antislavery men provided they are not compelled to take more antislavery
                                    than they might safely take of arsenic. A number of tried friends
                                    at this place and 
                                        Carthage
                                     and other points have suggested the propriety of holding a Republican Convention and nominating delegates to the 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     Con. on the 17th of June. A good attendance to such a convention could
                                    be had from about here and 
                                        Carthage
                                     and I doubt not through the whole country. Should we meet at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     and send delegates to 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     they must be received as the true representatives of Indiana, for those
                                    chosen the other day even deny the name. What say you to a Con. at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     about the first of June for this purpose" Or would it be
                                    better to hold it at some other point" The folks at 
                                        Carthage
                                     would like to have your opinion on this matter. Will you write me at
                                    that place (I am living there) and let us know your views" The friends at 
                                        Carthage
                                     have been expecting a visit from you and perhaps you can come and see
                                    us and address us. If so this will be better still. If you could visit us and will
                                    drop us a line to that effect we will meet you at 
                                        Knightstown
                                     and convoy you down and back at any time. Now if anything is done in
                                    regard to the above suggestions it will have to be done quickly. There are hundreds
                                    and perhaps thousands of dissatisfied men in Indiana who cannot, nay who will not,
                                    fall into this movement. As to myself, I loathe it, I despise it. The editor of the
                                    late "Williams County Democrat" of 
                                        Ohio
                                     wrote to me a few days before I left 
                                        Ripley
                                     stating that he and many others had bolted the Pittsburg platform and
                                    that he was preparing to establish a "Radical" Abolition sheet at 
                                        Columbus
                                    , O. If the 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     nominating convention take no broader ground than did the 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                    , the earnest antislavery men will leave the ranks by thousands. They
                                    will not fight battles for nothing. In haste,
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    D. Worth.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            [LETTERS OF THE BIDWELL BROTHERS AND PROSPECTUS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              "
                                    Indianapolis
                                 , Indiana,
                           
                                    November, 1856.
                                
                        Dear Sir:
                        The undersigned have determined to publish at this place, under the name of The
                                    Western Presage, a weekly paper, to be devoted to the advancement of the cause of
                                    Freedom, to Literature, general Miscellany &c. The first and foremost of the
                                    motives that impel us to undertake this work, is to aid in establishing, if
                                    possible, a higher standard of public opinion, particularly on the question of
                                    American Slavery. The existing popular opinion on that subject in this locality is
                                    far from being what it ought to be; and one of the chief causes of this, we think,
                                    lies in the false and deceptive issues that have from time to time been presented to
                                    the people by primary conventions, as well as in the great mass of argument, framed
                                    for the emergency, and so carefully constructed, to avoid giving offense, as to
                                    render it entirely impotent against the opposition, and worse than useless as a
                                    support to the cause it was designed to sustain.
                        The course which the Republicans have pursued towards the Know Nothing party of
                                    Indiana, has also tended greatly to weaken the party of Freedom, by driving from its
                                    support thousands of honest men who would otherwise have been with us, while it
                                    gained none of the proscriptive vote it turned aside to invite.
                        We intend to be plain, candid, and fair; and if we cannot succeed without
                                    compromising the truth, as many tell us we cannot, then, after we have fully tested
                                    the matter, we shall of course be compelled to return to a business from which we
                                    can derive an honest living. But we are by no means convinced that the people love
                                    falsehood better than truth. We believe that a dangerous mistake has ever been
                                    pursued by these politicians who have studied skill in what they denominate
                                    management, which would seem to mean the sacrificing of truth to party success; and
                                    we also believe that the people as a mass are far better and worthier as men than
                                    those who assume to establish false opinions for them. If we hold to the truth, they
                                    will act with us; but if we evade it, and call the act policy, most of them will go
                                    with the party that makes less pretentions to honesty.
                        This being our conviction, we shall never hesitate between truth and policy, but
                                    always assert the former without fear of consequences, and without regard to the
                                    peculiar opinions of party managers.
                        In carrying out our design, we desire the aid of our friends, and of the friends of
                                    freedom in every part of the land, and for the purpose of systematizing their work
                                    we have drawn up the accompanying list of subjects and placed opposite to each the
                                    name of the person who, in our opinion, is best qualified to discuss it. These names
                                    are known only to ourselves.
                        You will see by reference to the list that we have assigned to you the task of
                                    furnishing 5 articles in the course of the coming year. You will oblige us by
                                    stating, as early as possible, whether we may expect  your assistance to this extent, as we wish to have our
                                    list completed without delay.
                        In addition to the accompanying list, we have prepared others, embracing subjects of
                                    a different character, which we also send to those whose assistance we desire to
                                    obtain.
                        It may be proper to state to contributors that in selecting persons to discuss the
                                    subjects assigned to them we have been careful to choose none who are not known to
                                    us to be manly and courteous in argument, and fully competent to perform the task
                                    set apart for them, without resorting to the use of mean and vulgar language. We
                                    make this statement for the purpose of assuring correspondents that their articles
                                    will be in no danger of being thrown into bad company.
                        
                                    Respectfully,
                                    BIDWELL BROTHERS. 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , Nov. 22, 1856.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        G. W. Julian,
                        Dear Sir:
                        We shall be glad to have your assistance, to an extent beyond that assigned to you in
                                    the list. Indeed, we should like to regard you as asort of home dependence.
                        It will be somewhat difficult, at first, to maintain the free ground we intend to
                                    assume, but by perseverence we expect to triumph. It will be necessary, however, to
                                    be vigilant, honest and unswerving. We are not able, of ourselves, in point of
                                    talent, to maintain the high position our paper will assume, and hence we desire the
                                    aid of such as are.
                        
                                    Respt'y,
                                    Bidwell Brothers.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               CONTRIBUTORS' LIST
               
                  Date
                  Subject
                  Name of Author
               
               
                  January
                  3—Peculiar Features of Indiana Politics
                  Geo. W. Julian
               
               
                  "
                  10—Popular Majority in the Free North
                   
               
               
                  "
                  Northern Doughfaces
                   
               
               
                  "
                  17—Indiana Election Laws
                   
               
               
                  "
                  24—Terror of the Dissolution Pretense
                   
               
               
                  "
                  31—Early Mistakes of the Republican Party
                  Geo. W. Julian
               
               
                  Feb.
                  7—Relation of the States to the Republican Party
                   
               
               
                  
                  Freedom Right—Slavery Wrong
                   
               
               
                  "
                  14—Position of the Know Nothings
                  Geo. W. Julian
               
               
                  "
                  21—"Freedom Shriekers" of the Revolution
                   
               
               
                  "
                  28—"Prison of the Hundred"
                   
               
               
                  March
                  7—Ignoring the Question
                   
               
               
                  "
                  14—The President's Inaugural Address
                   
               
               
                  "
                  21—Inter-State Slave Trade
                   
               
               
                  "
                  28—Slavery in Cold Climates
                   
               
               
               
                  April
                  4—The Free Democracy of '48-9
                   
               
               
                  "
                  11—Slavery in the Colonies
                   
               
               
                  "
                  18—Free Labor and Slave Labour
                   
               
               
                  "
                  25—Degeneracy of Literature under Slavery
                   
               
               
                  May
                  2—Slavery in the District
                   
               
               
                  "
                  9—Inconsistency of Slavery
                   
               
               
                  "
                  16—Divine Right of Man to Freedom
                   
               
               
                  "
                  23—Perverting the Constitution
                   
               
               
                  "
                  30—Man's Natural Love of Freedom
                   
               
               
                  June
                  6—Earnings of the Underground Railroad
                   
               
               
                  "
                  13—Northern Apologies for Southern Slavery
                   
               
               
                  "
                  20—Triumphs of Labor in the Free North
                   
               
               
                  "
                  27—Fruits of the Declaration
                   
               
               
                  July
                  4—The Birthday of our Republic
                   
               
               
                  "
                  11—Framers of the Ordinance
                   
               
               
                  "
                  18—Triumphs of Literature in the Free North
                   
               
               
                  "
                  25—Slavery in the Territories
                   
               
               
                  August
                  1—Antislavery Consistency
                   
               
               
                  "
                  8—Effects of Slavery upon Free Labor
                   
               
               
                  "
                  15—Free Labor in the Harvest Field
                   
               
               
                  "
                  22—The Fugitive Slave Law
                   
               
               
                  "
                  29—Slavery Necessarily Aggressive
                   
               
               
                  Sept.
                  5—Condition of the Fugitives in 
                                Canada
                            
                  
                   
               
               
                  "
                  12–Betraying the Patriots of the Revolution
                   
               
               
                  "
                  19–
                                Washington
                            's Farewell Address
                   
               
               
                  "
                  26–Suppressing the Bible on the Plantations
                   
               
               
                  Oct.
                  3—Iiberty and Slavery in the Same Land
                   
               
               
                  "
                  10—Influences of Slavery upon Christianity
                   
               
               
                  "
                  17—Fossil Remains of the Know Nothing Party
                  Geo. W. Julian
               
               
                  "
                  24—"Good Faith and Justice Towards all Nations"
                   
               
               
                  "
                  31—"Agitators and Fanatics"
                   
               
               
                  Nov.
                  7—The Difference Between Freedom and Slavery
                   
               
               
                  "
                  14—Present Elements in the Political World
                  Geo. W. Julian
               
               
                  "
                  21—The Recent Elections
                   
               
               
                  "
                  28—The Approaching Session of Congress
                   
               
               
                  Dec.
                  5—Moral Courage in Politics
                   
               
               
                  "
                  12—President's Message
                   
               
               
                  "
                  19—The 
                                Puritan
                             Fathers
                   
               
               
                  "
                  26—The Departing Year–Its Trials and Triumphs
                   
               
            
         
         
            A LETTER FROM STEPHEN S. HARDING TO WILLIAM H. SEWARD
            By MRS. ETTA REEVES
            
                    Foreword
                
            Since Mormonism is celebrating its hundredth anniversary this year, it would seem an appropriate time
                    to introduce to  the readers of the Indiana
                        Magazine of History, a Hoosier, Stephen S. Harding, who served as Territorial Governor of 
                        Utah
                     and who was offered earlier the first foreign stewardship of the Mormon Church by
                    Joseph Smith, the Mormon prophet. Although acquainted with Mormonism from its inception, Harding was
                    never, at any time, in sympathy with its tenets or its leaders.
            Stephen S. Harding was one of thirteen children who accompanied their parents, David and Abagail
                    Harding, from 
                        New York
                     westward to Indiana in 1820. Coming into an undeveloped country at the impressionable
                    age of twelve, young Stephen early learned to shift for himself. He began teaching school in his
                    home community in 
                        Ripley County
                    , Indiana, at the age of sixteen, although he had received but nine months"
                    formal school training himself. The first public address given by the young schoolmaster, who later
                    was to become one of the outstanding orators in the abolition cause in Indiana, was delivered at a
                    local Independence Day celebration in his seventeenth year. Eager to learn in order to advance
                    himself, Harding studied law, being admitted to the bar of Indiana at the age of twenty in March,
                    1828.
            In the Fall of that year, Harding went to 
                        New Orleans
                     by steamboat. It was upon this trip to 
                        Louisiana
                     that Harding met slavery at its worst in the slave markets of 
                        New Orleans
                    . Needless to say, the young Hoosier was shocked at the horrors of the slave traffic.
            It is an interesting coincidence that Harding and Abraham Lincoln saw 
                        Louisiana
                     and the slave markets of 
                        New Orleans
                     for the first time in the same year, 1828. There is 110 evidence, however, that Harding
                    made the acquaintance of 
                        Lincoln
                     on this trip. The impressions of slavery which Harding acquired during his brief
                    sojourn in the South helped make of him an ardent anti-slavery man.
            Unable to subdue the wanderlust of young manhood, Harding, shortly after his return from the South,
                    left for an extensive trip to the East, during which he spent some time among relatives at his
                    childhood home in Palmyra, 
                        New York
                    . While in Palmyra, he met Joseph Smith, the Mormon prophet, in whose home he was a
                    guest over night. There he heard read the first four chapters of the Book of Mormon which was at
                    that very time in the process of being published in a Palmyra 
                    printing shop. Smith tried to prevail upon Harding to remain in Palmyra until the Book of Mormon was
                    completed after which Harding was to go to 
                        London
                     as a missionary for the newly created Mormon Church.
            This opportunity to serve the Mormon church as a missionary which came to him in 1830, Harding very
                    promptly rejected. It is interesting that thirty-two years later, in 1862, he should have been sent
                    to 
                        Utah
                     as Governor of 
                        Utah
                     Territory. He was appointed by President Lincoln and the appointment was confirmed,
                    without a dissenting vote, by the Senate on March 31, 1862.
            Harding arrived in Salt Lake City in July, and immediately assumed his duties as
                    Governor of the Territory. His administration was marked by sharp conflicts with Brigham Young, head
                    of the Mormon Church and formerly Territorial Governor. Harding resigned his office in the fall of
                    1863. and returned to Indiana upon finding himself unable to enforce Federal law, carry out the
                    Government's instructions, or work in harmony with Young. He shortly afterward accepted the
                    chief-justiceship of the Territory of 
                        Colorado
                    . After serving for about a year in this office, he returned to Indiana where he
                    practiced law until he was stricken with blindness in 1881.
            Harding's home is maintained today as a memorial to him by his grand-daughter, Mrs. P. A.
                    Row of 
                        Osgood
                    , Indiana, an enthusiastist in the field of pioneer history. The home, situated at
                    Milan, Indiana, is furnished as nearly as possible as it was in Harding's day and is
                    visited each year by many who are interested in Indiana's historical landmarks.
            [THE LETTER]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Executive Department 
                                    Utah
                                  Territory,
                              Great Sait Lake City,
                           
                                    February 3, 1863
                                
                        Sir:
                        I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of yours of 9th inst. in answer to mine
                                    of the 15th ult. While it would have been a matter of great personal convenience to
                                    me if the desired leave of absence could have been granted, yet I am constrained to
                                    believe that the President is right in his conclusion. There have occurred many
                                    things here since the date of my letter which lead me to believe that the time has
                                    now come when every Federal officer here should be at his post and ready to
                                    cooperate in the maintenance of law and order.
                        
                        I do not desire to create any unnecessary alarm, but still I deem it my duty to say
                                    to the President, that Political matters in 
                                        Utah
                                     are far from being quiet. There is that peculiar element of disloyalty
                                    and religious fanaticism, which would at the first opportunity develop itself, and
                                    especially if it was believed that the Federal Government was powerless to inflict
                                    punishment.
                        No individual outside of this Territory, can form a true opinion the state of society
                                    here. If it could be generally known how a blasphemous pretender and imposter has
                                    wrought, by a cunning almost supernatural, on the superstitutions of an ignorant,
                                    credulous, and dependent people (when the talent for mischief might readily be
                                    granted) yet the indignation would be universal.
                        Brigham Young has been able so to work upon his followers as tomake them believe that
                                    the only rightful authority to govern is vested in his hands by the special gift of
                                    the Holy Ghost. That all other governments are mere usurpations,—that
                                    while the Constitution of the 
                                        United States
                                     was given by inspiration, yet in as much as the people refused to
                                    acknowledge Joseph Smith as the true prophet of God, the nation was to be destroyed
                                    on the same principle that the Jews, as a people, and Jerusalem as the center of
                                    their power, were to be scattered and destroyed, as a punishment for their rejection
                                    and crucifiction of the Savior.
                        Wonderful, Sir, as these insane ravings may appear to you, and harmless from their
                                    very extravagence, yet they are not to be under-rated. Every trick, ever known to
                                    the most adroit jugler and pretender, is known and exercised by him, to deceive and
                                    mislead his deluded followers. He dreams dreams, and sends for his wise men,
                                    pretended astrologers, to interpret them. He claims that he is in daily
                                    communication with God, and has revelations which the people are not yet good and
                                    faithful enough to hear,—and goodness with him consists only in strict
                                    obedience to his commands in all things, temporal and spiritual.
                        There can be no mistaking his ultimate object. He is aiming, if nor ar universal
                                    Empire on this Continent, at least in this Territory. History teaches us the dangers
                                    to be apprehended from such characters; and although we may conclude that such
                                    insanity can accomplish little, yet its dangerous tendencies are manifest.
                        Brigham Young today wields a revenue by no means insignificant. The salary of the
                                    President of the 
                                        United States
                                     is small in comparison to that he controls under the innocent and
                                    unpretentious term of "tithings". He is procuring arms and heavy
                                    ordnance, how, and where from I am not able exactly to say. Yet, the fact remains he
                                    is at this time secretly manufacturing shells and solid shot, cartridges, and a new
                                    weapon, partly a battle ax and partly a lance, for what purpose may be readily
                                    imagined. I have been able through secret service to learn that
                                    his arsenal is full of new and efficient small arms equal in appearance at least to
                                    those used by the Government in her armies. Although all is kept smooth on the
                                    surface, yet it is well known that drill sergeants are daily employed to teach small
                                    squads of men the manual exercises and military tactics. If these things were done
                                    "not in a corner" it would 
                                    remove much of the suspicion that now rests upon these movements.
                        That this man intends to strike if the opportunity shall present itself favorably is
                                    certain. As I informed the President in a previous communication, never, since I
                                    came here, have I heard one word of loyalty towards the government of the 
                                        United States
                                    , and to find a traitor at heart you have, with fewest
                                        exceptions, only to find a Moymon.
                        
                        That there is a growing disposition on the part of the masses to throw off their
                                    chains I think I may safely assert. But they are distrustful, timid, and fearful
                                    that after all, they will be abandoned by the Federal troops, to feel the power of
                                    the Priesthood, when there will be no hope for protection. It would seem unwise and
                                    unjust to attempt to prosecute the poor deluded victim of this strange and fatal
                                    delusion for violators of law, when the head and front of the offenders is suffered
                                    to go with impunity.
                        There is no doubt but that Brigham Young is almost every week adding to his harem the
                                    unprotected and demented victims of his villany. He admits that he has his quarters
                                    full, and that his wives' names are scarcely remembered by him, which are
                                    scattered throughout the settlements, yet when he sees a pretty face, some young
                                    girl just blooming into womanhood, he informs her, or generally her parents, that in
                                    order to make her salvation sure in this, and the world to come, he feels it to be
                                    his duty to have her sealed unto him. This sealing is not the
                                    forerunner of a mere Platonic relationship but generally develops itself in a young heir of the "Lion of the House of
                                    Jacob."
                        
                        My Dear Sir, this is not a fiction; this is only an imperfect picture of the
                                    condition of things here on American soil, and in the midst of the nineteenth
                                    century.
                        The question remains to be answered, is there any remedy for these violations of
                                    law" Is the Federal Government to be defied with impunity" If thse
                                    violations of law are not to be noticed, then it was unfortunate for me that the act
                                    against Polygamy was passed by Congress. My oath compels me to see that the laws are
                                    faithfully administered. How can this be if the government is powerless, or refuses
                                    to furnish the means whereby this duty can be performed?
                        I hope that you will forgive me for the seeming egotism, which I may indulge in, when
                                    I assure you that for a time every art and appliance was made use of to win me over
                                    to the interest and schemes of this man. If he could have been convinced that I
                                    could be used for the promotion of his personal ambition he would
                                        seemingly at least have been my friend, and his followers
                                    taught to pay marked homage to me, but when he discovered that this was impossible,
                                    he commenced his work of slander and defamation, and through his supple ministers
                                    and tools sent to every settlement in the Territory reports the most false and
                                    scandalous, for no other purpose than to make my stay here so unpleasant that I
                                    would voluntarily resign my office and leave for the States. But in this he has not
                                    succeeded so well as he expected. And he has found out that, between us two, his
                                    chances for leaving are quite as good as mine.
                        Yet I am certain that if it was not for the presence of Col. Conner's  command it would be unsafe, if not impossible,
                                    for me to remain if it was believed that I would not at last yield from the force of
                                    surrounding circumstances, and consent, in the language here, "to receive
                                    my salary and let Brigham Young play Governor". I trust that it is not
                                    necessary for me to assure the President that " I shall never consent to
                                    eat that sort of bread."
                        I desire to call your attention to some facts which transpired at the late session of
                                    the Territorial Legislature. On the 10th of December Idelivered my first message. I
                                    wish that it were in my power to enclose you a copy of the same in print but cannot
                                    for the reasons which will appear. Immediately after the delivery of the message one
                                    thousand copies were ordered printed. The Secretary of the Council, Mr. Ferguson,
                                    came into the room of Judge Kinney where I happend to be in company with several of
                                    the Federal officers who heard what I now state from Mr. Ferguson. He informed me of
                                    the action of the Legislature in the matter of printing the message, and said that
                                    he was instructed to deliver that document with accompanying papers to the printer.
                                    He started off toward the printing office, and did actually deliver the document.
                                    But from that day to the present my message, at least the copy in his possession,
                                    has never been heard from. The public printer denies that the message was ever
                                    Teceived at the office, and to cap the climax, Ferguson himself denies that he ever
                                    delivered it! And this, too when a dozen persons saw him start from Judge
                                    Kinney's room with the document in his hands, and heard what he said.
                        I can further show by my private secretary and Marshall Gibbs that they met Ferguson
                                    on the stairs coming out of the printing office, and that they saw the message lying
                                    on the desk of the editor of the Deseret News, who is the public printer in this
                                    Territory.
                        And still further, the foreman of the establishment informed the two witnesses at the
                                    same time that the governor's message had just been received, and that they
                                    would be busy until it was printed.
                        Now in this connection hear me further. I am reliably informed, and have not a doubt
                                    of its truth, that Brigham Young sent immediately and took possession of the message
                                    and ordered that it should be suppressed if not destroyed. But still there was some
                                    difficulty to be overcome, for it would appear from the Journal that the Legislature
                                    had ordered 1,000 copies printed. But this difficulty was not much for a Legislature
                                    under the absolute control of Brigham Young. The Journal, too, was suppressed, and
                                    neither in the Journals themselves, nor in the newspaper here, (and there is but
                                    one, and that is under the control of the same power) has it ever appeared that such
                                    a document had been delivered to the Legislative Assembly, or that the governor ever
                                    appeared before that body for such a purpose.
                        I had taken the precaution to keep a copy, and but for this the document would never
                                    have found its way to the light.
                        Members of the Legislature, as I have since been informed, laughed at the smartness
                                    of Brigham, and in their language said "he had got the governor"
                                    for there was only "one copy and that was safe". A copy of my
                                    message, however, was sent to 
                                        California
                                     where it has been extensively 
                                    printed and circulated. Also a copy was sent to the N. Y. Tribune where I see it was
                                    published in the daily of the 7th inst. I hope and trust that you and the President
                                    have already done me the honor of examining it for yourselves. The only reason why
                                    this extraordinary course was pursued by the leader of these people was to make it
                                    difficult, if not impossible, for the people themselves ever to examine the message.
                                    They discovered that there were facts stated and deductions drawn which must not
                                    come to the knowledge of the masses of their deluded following. And in answer to the
                                    inquiry as to why the message did not appear as usual, the stereotyped reply is
                                    always given that it was "so indecent and insulting to the people, that it
                                    was not fit to be seen."
                        While I confess that it is hard to bear up under these misrepresentations and have
                                    the people "believe a lie that they may be damned," yet I make the
                                    best of it, knowing that so transparent a puzzle cannot long save the guilty from
                                    the scorn which they deserve. Nevertheless these things show the animus of that
                                    Power here which commands the people in what ever it shall determine.
                        I hope that I may be pardoned if I ask your attention a moment longer. On the 14th
                                    day of January, two days before the adjournment of the Legislature, an act was sent
                                    me for my approval changing the County seal of 
                                        Washington County
                                    , and stating the time for holding the District Court of the U. S. for
                                    the transaction of Territorial business on the 3d Monday in May.
                        I at once appsoved the act, and instead of sending it, as is customary, to the office
                                    of the Secretary, inadvertently sent it back to the Legislature. A day or so
                                    previous the judges of the U. S. for this Territory were assigned to their several
                                    districts and although it was well understood that Hon. Charles B. Waite, one of the
                                    associate justices had a wife and three children here, and of all the judges could
                                    the least afford to take the 2d District so far off, it being about 350 miles
                                    distant, yet the mere reason that he could be annoyed and put to this unnecessary
                                    hardship, and notwithstanding it had been previously arranged by him and Hon. T. J.
                                    Drake, the other associate justice, that the latter would take upon himself the said
                                    District, yet the Legislature wholly disregarded his wishes and the mutual
                                    uhderstanding between the said judges and sent him to this isolated part of the
                                    Territory where there are no conveniences of travel to and from the same, or a place
                                    where his family can be made comfortable.
                        It should be borne in mind that Judge Drake is a single gentleman and could raise no
                                    such objections, and he had expected to go to this District.
                        The Legislature, discovering that the 3d Monday in May which was the time fixed in
                                    the act just passed for holding the Court for Territorial business was at a time
                                    when Judge Waite could attend to his term of Court for U. S. business and also give
                                    him time to come back and attend the Supreme Court in this city, passed another act,
                                    fixing the time of holding his Court the 3d Monday in October, making two terms of
                                    the Supreme Court, and so fixing the time that in no event  could Judge Waite attend to his duties, without making
                                    two trips intsead of one of 350 miles each way, thereby imposing upon him a most
                                    unnecessary burden and hardship. No matter whether he removed his family from this
                                    City to the wild and savage County where he has been assigned, yet he must still
                                    make the two trips instead of one, as would be the case if the law stood as it then
                                    was.
                        I saw at once the injustice and malice which characterized the second act, which was
                                    presented for my approval. As a matter of course I did not, and would not, approve
                                    the act.
                        Now mark the sequel. As soon as it was understood that I would not approve the second
                                    act, the act which I had approved fixing the time of holdilig the Court on the 3d
                                    Monday in May (and which time met the wishes of the judge) was changed by the
                                    Legislature after my approval by erasing the word "May" and
                                    inserting the word "October", thereby accomplishing by forgery
                                    what they could not otherwise obtain. The act, so forged and altered, was
                                    immediately sent to the Secretary's office and there hurriedly recorded.
                        The next morning, it being the 16th and the last day of the Session, I went to the
                                    office of the Secretary and accidently took up the Act and at once discovered the
                                    forgery. It was plain to be seen when examined closely. I arrester further mischief
                                    by ordering the record to be made to read as the act read when it was approved, and
                                    with my own hand I corrected the act, and noted on its margin the fact that such
                                    forgery had been detected, and the bill made to read as it did when I approved of
                                    the same.
                        I thought it my duty to call the attention of the Speaker to the fact of such forgery
                                    and asked him to institute such an inquiry into the matter as such an outrage
                                    demanded. I am informed that the only notice taken of my communication was to charge
                                    the governor with the forgery, when I can prove by Judge Waite himself and four
                                    other most respectable witnesses that the word "May" and not
                                    "October" was written in the body of the act at the time that I
                                    approved the same. And I still have in my possession the act which I would not
                                    approve fixing the time of holding the Court on the 3d Monday of October!
                        I have thought it best to ask your attention to these facts even at the risk of
                                    wearying your patience. I can form but one opinion in the premise; there is not a
                                    member of this Territorial Legislature that would hesitate to do, or to state, under
                                    his solemn oath, anything that he was commanded to do by Brigham Young. I make no
                                    exceptions. And in coming to this conclusion I am only expressing the opinions
                                    entertained by every Federal officer here, unless it may be one under the same
                                    malign influence.
                        If the President has any advice to offer in the passing I should be  most glad to receive it, and to act upon the
                                    suggestions which he may make.
                        I have the honor to remain.
                        
                                    Your obedient Servant,
                                    Ste. S. Harding, Gov.
                                
                        Hon. Wm. H. Seward Secretary of State 
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               That Man Debs and his Life Work. By FLOY RUTH PAINTER, Indiana University (Published under the auspices of the
                    Graduate Council), 
                        Bloomington
                    , 1929, Pp. 209.
            A book on the career of Eugene V. Debs written in the form of a doctoral dissertation is not likely
                    to have a reading public far outside of the group of professional historians and history teachers,
                    even if given a catch–phrase title. Historians know Debs to have been a genial, kindly
                    man, honest and upright in his dealings, more inflamatory in words than in intentions, and
                    whole–heartedly interested in the betterment of the lot of laboring men. In general this
                    is the impression further well-developed and proved in the book in question.
            The treatise is chiefly a compendium of comment on the career of Debs, taken from the words and
                    writings of the man himself and those of his friends, enemies, and partially-disinterested
                    observers, supplemented by a modicum of information of some illustrative value obtained by the
                    author through personal interviews with Debs in the last two years of the latter's life. A
                    more descriptive title would have been "Opinions on the Public Career of Eugene V.
                    Debs." Sixty-seven pages, or a little over a third of the total, are devoted to the hero up
                    to his conversion to socialism during the imprisonment following the 
                        Chicago
                     strike of 1894, and the bulk of this chapter deals with the problems of the strike.
                    Another thirty-six pages dispose of the public career from 1895 to the outbreak of the World War.
                    Then follow forty-seven pages on the last twelve years of Deb's life, devoted mainly to his
                    attitude on the World War, his persecution for his views, and his imprisonment. This is probably the
                    best-written part of the book. The last chapter of tliirty-nine pages is reserved for a
                    consideration of the personality and opinions of Debs as shown by his speeches and activities,
                    supplemented by liberal comments from others.
            In spite of conscientious efforts of the author to maintain strict impartiality the reader is
                    constantly aware of the writer in the narrative, both because of the occasional use of the editorial
                    "we" and the self-conscious efforts to appear unprejudiced.
            
            When Debs favored woman suffrage he was a "lover of humanity" (p. 188), but when he
                    came into conflict with Theodore Roosevelt (p. 179) he was "The persistent agitator and
                    self appointed agent for exposing what he believed to be the evils of the capitalistis
                    regime…." Of course these ideas are not conflicting, but there is food for
                    conjecture in their use in those particular connections.
            In general the author is warmly sympathetic. When Debs defended Big Bill Haywood in the
                    "Rouse Ye Slaves" article of 1906, the author of the book accepts the later
                    explanation of Debs that when he spoke of resistance with guns he really meant ballots (The article
                    itself and the authority for Deb's emendation appear ninety pages later on pp. 182-154). On
                    page 184, the author admits that the genial Gene "did perhaps lose a little poise"
                    in writing that particular article, which she also refers to as a speech. The opinion of the author
                    is perhaps best disclosed in the final words of the last chapter where she says that Deb's
                    work "has helped bring forth the alternative of revolution-that is, reform in some
                    degree." It is doubtful whether Debs would have relished such an interpretation, though the
                    book shows ample evidence of the assertion that he was about as much interested in immediate relief
                    as in social revolution.
            In place of so lengthy a restatement of the legal and constitutional aspects of the 
                        Chicago
                     strike, the reader might be better satisfied with a more comprehensive account of Debs
                    the labor organizer and with more complete information on the supposition tnat George M. Pullman and
                    the railroad executives were in conspiracy to ruin the American Railway Union and engineered the
                    whole outbreak accordingly. Do the Hopkins affidavits mentioned on p. 51 still exist" Why
                    were they not used" Some explanation on this point seems desirable. Reference to article I,
                    section 8, paragraph 15 and to article IV, section 4 of the Constitution might have helped some to
                    avoid the uncertainty of the author as between the points of view of Debs and President Cleveland on
                    the use of regular soldiers in suppressing the strike.
            There are numerous points in the book to which the meticulous reader might take exception, but as the
                    narrative develops, there is a gratifying improvement in style and in the form of composition. A
                    rewriting of the book with special  reference to organization,
                    coherence, and style might have been profitable.
            The proofreading and editing have been well done, though a few slips have been noticed. On p. 181,
                    two words are misspelled. Footnote 91 of the last chapter is misleading because the corresponding
                    numeral in the text is placed at the end of the wrong sentence. The use of "in"
                    before op. cit. is unnecessary and incorrect, much as would be the use of "and etc," or "free gratis."
                    It is especially hard to explain the use of "in" where the expression following
                    evidently should have been loc.cit instead of op.cit. The use of
                    paragraph indentions for all quotations printed in small type is also open to question.
            The bibliography is gratifyingly comprehensive. The addition of an index would have been especially
                    beneficial, since the organization of the work leaves discussion of several topics widely scattered
                    through the book.
            FRED A. SHANNON.
         
         
            
               A. 
                            Lincoln
                        
               . By ROSS F. LOCKRIDGE. World Book
                    Company, Yonkers-On-Hudson, 1930, Pp. vi+320. Illustrated.
            The very first 
                        Lincoln
                     biography which appeared a few days after his nomination for the Presidency referred to
                    him as "the future Hoosier President." Most of the standard works on Abraham
                    Lincoln have paid little or no attention to the fourteen years which Abraham Lincoln spent in the
                    Hoosier state. There is now available a book which gives serious consideration to 
                        Lincoln
                    's activities between the ages of seven and twenty-one, at which time he was
                    living in Indiana. A. Lincoln by Ross F. Lockridge is a biographical study, simply told, serving as
                    a supplemental text book in American history. It also makes an excellent introduction to 
                        Lincoln
                     for those who may have but little knowledge of his transcendent career.
            One can detect three specific atmospheres in this argument which are harmonized into an accurate
                    historical study assuring one that a faithful presentation of the subject matter is before him.
                    There is the atmosphere of the schoolroom created by the author's long experience in
                    educational fields. The incidents related reveal that in the selection of the ma-trial he has had in
                    mind the interest of an adolescent group. The first eight of the fifteen chapters in the book deal
                    with the infancy, childhood, youth, and young manhood of 
                        Lincoln
                    ,  and are climaxed with his courtship and marriage.
                    At this point, the new romance of his life achievements begins with chapters representing him as a
                    pioneer politician, struggling lawyer, champion debater, presidential candidate, emancipator,
                    director of military movements and mystic. The last chapter serves as an appropriate benediction to
                    his romantic life without contributing to that large collection of literature known as the Lincoln
                    legend. The Lincoln introduced here is the Lincoln that every intelligent parent should like to have
                    his child know intimately.
            There is also the atmosphere of orientation throughout this entire book. The author need not have
                    explained in his introduction that he had visited again and again the places of historical interest
                    mentioned in the text. The familiarity with which he writes about each shrine and wayside stile
                    gives evidence that he has not merely followed the trail of the Lincolns from the 
                        Kentucky
                     cabin to the White House but has found time to linger along the way. This is especially
                    true when it comes to that section in southern Indiana which has been so badly neglected by many who
                    have told the 
                        Lincoln
                     story.
            One finds, too, in this 
                        Lincoln
                     book by Lockridge the atmosphere of constructive criticism. It is refreshing to follow
                    a 
                        Lincoln
                     biographer who is willing to sacrifice color, contrasts, and incidents of questionable
                    authenticity for the more commonplace known facts about the President.
            The reader is not obliged to review at the very beginning of the book the unsavory stories which have
                    been circulated about the maternal ancestry of the President and which have depended largely upon
                    utenable traditions for their support. The parents of the President are not protrayed as
                    poverty-stricken poor whites who were unwilling emigrants pushed into the Western country by
                    necessity. The cabin in which Abraham Lincoln was born is not pictured as a tumble-down shanty,
                    smaller and inferior to the average pioneer dwelling, nor his Indiana home as a squalid and
                    vermin-ridden shelter.
            One feels after reading the chapters on 
                        Lincoln
                    's early life that his people were very much like the other pioneer families in 
                        Kentucky
                    , Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     who became the very life and sinew of the great Northwest. The activities of 
                        Lincoln
                     as a youth are set forth in an interesting way with  special emphasis placed on the educational facilities of that day. A good picture of pioneer
                    social life at the time when Indiana was emerging from a territory into a State, is also revealed.
            Some readers may feel that too much space is used in discussing the early years and the apprentice
                    days when 
                        Lincoln
                     was developing as a lawyer-politician. The purpose of the book, however, relieves the
                    writer from any criticism for the emphasis thus given.
            The chapter on the 
                        Lincoln
                     and Douglas debates, which one expects to find in every biographical study of 
                        Lincoln
                     will not be passed over because of long recorded speeches. While the famous utterances
                    of both debaters are given in an abbreviated form, much space is used in creating the proper setting
                    for the debates. The illustration at the close of the chapter presenting Leonard
                    Crunnelle's statue of Abraham Lincoln at 
                  Freeport, Illinois
               , dedicated
                    in August 1929, helps to link up these historic, forensic battles with the present.
            The chapters dedicated to 
                        Lincoln
                    's administration discuss the political problems, the status of slavery, and
                    the military activities of the President. In these chapters also the flow of the story is not
                    checked by long questions. The final chapter, as we have already suggested, serves as a benediction
                    to the story of a clean, strong, intelligent personality whose life will certainly influence the
                    youth of each succeeding generation.
            It appears to the reviewer that Mr. Lockridge has accomplished what he set out to do. He has written
                    a readable and reliable story of Abraham Lincoln especially adapted for use in schools and groups
                    where a short concise biography of the President is desired.
            LOUIS A. WARREN.
         
         
            
               Indiana History Bulletin, number 7, Volume VIII, publised by the Historical Bureau
                    of the Indiana Library and Historical Department (
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1930, pp. 102) constitutes the Proceedings of the Eleventh Annual
                    Indiana History Conference which was held at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on December 13-14, 1929. Meetings of the Society of Indiana Pioneers and ofthe History
                    and Social Science Section of the Indiana State Teachers" Association were held in
                    conjunction with the Conference  and the pamphlet contains
                    reports of these. Several of the papers read at the History Conference and before the History and
                    Social Science Section have appeared or will appear in the Indiana Magazine of History during the current. year. A study of "John W. Davis, Pioneer
                    Politician" by Hope Bedford will be published separately by the Indiana Historical Society.
                    The other papers read at the sessions of the Conference and before the meetings of the other
                    organizations mentioned are included in the Bulletin.
            
         
         
         
            Comment and News
            Persons who are well acquainted with various phases and movements of Indiana history or with men and
                    women who have made history since the Civil War are slow to understand the value of what they know
                    from experience. It is true that pioneer history is important. Perhaps we shall never have written
                    enough about the experiences of those who built up civilization in frontier areas. On the other
                    hand, there is a crying need for carefully prepared studies of the fifty years following 1865. In
                    addition there is the field of biography. Whoever will, after adequate research, write a readable
                    biographical sketch of almost anyone of fifty or more leaders prominent in Indiana from the
                    Territorial period to the present will perform a worthwhile service.
            The widespread interest in the agitation for a convention to revise the basic law of Indiana is a
                    hopeful sign. The process of framing a constitution through a constitutional convention should be
                    and usually is a red-letter experience for the people of any State. Indiana needs the experience,
                    and after eighty years, the State should demonstrate that it can go through the wonderful process of
                    reshaping the organic law with credit to itself. The fathers did no finer thing than to invent the
                    method of making State constitutions through special representative bodies. Are the people of our
                    day capable of using this splendid method of political advancement" We shall be happy to
                    see them demonstrate their capacity.
            A few weeks ago President William Lowe Bryan read The Raven: A Biography of Sam
                    Houston by Marquis James. After stating the outstanding facts of Houston's life as
                    gathered from the book in the President's Column of The Indiana Daily
                    Student of May 27, President Bryan wrote the following keen and interesting observations:
                        
                        I imagine two biographies based upon these facts. One is charged with bottled lightning
                            language that snaps and crackles and bursts into explosion on every page. The other drags
                            deliberately through a  jungle of careful disputations
                            and citations so that the quality of Houston's life as it was lived is smothered
                            and buried. Marquis James is as far from one of these extremes as from the other. I am
                            expecting to hear the historians say that his documents and his knowledge and use of them
                            meet the exacting requirements of present day historical science. At the same time the style
                            of the writing goes with the style of the events, and the style of the man Sam Houston.
                            Doubtless the Pulitzer prize given the book as the best biography of the year is rightly
                            bestowed.
                    
                
            Not a penny has been subscribed to the one-hundred dollar prize fund since the publication of the
                    March number. In that issue, the statement was made that no pledges are to be received after
                    September 1, 1930. This date will not be changed no matter how great the pressure brought to bear on
                    the Editor. Let there be no undue excitement about the matter. We do not desire to
                    witness a stampede at the last minute. In the interest of scholarly work in the field of Indiana
                    history, simply send in your pledge before September 1, otherwise the glory of this effort will all
                    belong to three men, and will accrue to them without money and without price.
            The Editor while writing these paragraphs for the June issue of the Magazine is
                    sojourning at 
                  Knoxville, Tennessee
               . Located for the summer on one of the highest
                    hilltops of the city, he can see at all times the Great Smoky Mountains in the distance. Happy in
                    his surroundings, he sends greetings to all who may chance to read these lines. He hopes that this
                    number will reach subscribers before they give up the expectation of receiving it at all. He plans
                    to bring out the September issue by October 1, and trusts that he and all who are interested with
                    him in the welfare of the Indiana Magazine of History may not be disappointed.
         
         
         
            Reprints
            Reprints of articles published in the Magazine may be had by any contributor who
                    may desire them. Application should be made as soon as the paper has been accepted for publication.
                    Dr. R. C. Buley, the Business Manager, will furnish prices on request, and place orders for such a
                    number of copies of any reprint as may be wanted.
         
         
            Wanted
            We are sure that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above
                    the regular rates will be paid. Persons possessing any of the desired magazines or other
                    publications, will confer a great favor by writing to Dr. R. C. Buley, Business Manager of the Indiana Magazine of History.
            
            
               The Indianian. This magazine was published at 
                        Indianapolis
                     from 1898 to 1906, six volumes in all. Wanted, a complete file. Partial sets will be
                    considered.
            
               Indiana, Past and Present. This little, temporary periodical was published during
                    1914. Wanted, a complete file, and also an extra copy of Number 1.
            
               The Open Road. Wanted copies of this monthly for: March, April, May, June, July,
                    August, September, and November, 1910; March, July, August, and September, 1911; April and May,
                    1912; July, 1913; January, 1914.
            
               Bulletins of the Indiana Historical Commission. Numbers 16 and 18. These contain
                    the Proceedings of the Southwestern Indiana Historical Society for 1922 and 1923.
            
               Commencement Programs of Indiana University. Wanted to complete the file of the
                    University Library the following, but duplicates of those listed and of any programs prior to  1900 will be accepted and valued: Programs of 1st to 19th
                    commencements, 1828-1848; 22nd to 24th, 1851-1853; 26th to 28th, 1855-1857; 30th and 31st,
                    1859-1860; 33rd to 43rd, 1862-1872; 44th and 45th, 1873-1874; 47th, 1876; 50th and 51st, 1879-1880;
                    53rd, 1882; 55th and 56th, 1884-1885; 59th and 60th, 1887-1888; 52nd, 1891; 64th, 1893-1897.
            
               Indiana School Journal. Wanted vol. 37, numbers, 7-8 (1892); vol. 38, numbers 6, 9,
                    10, 11, 12 (1893); vol. 40, numbers 4, 9, 10, 11 (1895).
            National Educational Association, Proceedings. Wanted for 1860, 1864, 1872, 1884,
                    and 1885.
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have had a generous response to our appeals for
                    back numbers, especially for those dated later than 1914. We have a serious need for copies of
                    issues from 1905 to 1912. We very much desire to locate the four numbers of volume IV (1908); number
                    one of volume VI (1910); the four numbers of volume VII (1911); the four numbers of vol. VIII
                    (1912). We will buy further copies of the following issues: Dec., 1921; Mar., 1922; double-number
                    June-Sept., 1925.
            Full sets of the Magazine can be supplied to libraries or individuals who may
                    desire to purchase only with great difficulty. A complete file from 1920 forward can be supplied at
                    fifty-cents a copy or two dollars per volume, unbound; from 1914 to 1919, the price is one dollar
                    per copy, or four dollars per volume; a file from 1905-1913, when it can be supplied at all, must be
                    priced at a much higher figure.
         
         
            General Index
            It was impossible to complete the preparation of copy for the General Index for
                    volumes I-XXV in time to print it in either April or May. We are sorry for the delay. The Index is now in the hands of the printer, and it will be mailed to those who have
                    ordered it with the current issue or soon there-after. The price is one dollar to
                    anyone who may desire a copy. Further orders should be sent direct to the Indiana
                        Magazine of History, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    .
         
      
      
         
      
   
