
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 7, Issue 3, pages 89-144. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:7+issue:3+year:1911&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            PLYMOUTH CHURCH—
                        IL
                    
            
            
               BY RUTH McCULLOCH.
            PLYMOUTH Church, from 1877 to 1900, was a House of Life. So its pastor for fourteen years, Oscar C.
                    McCulloch, named it and developed it, believing that Christ was sent to bring abundant life to the
                    world and that the church as His special agency should carry on His work.
            The church doors stood open day and night—all week—with some three thousand
                    people passing in and out for the Sunday services, lectures, entertainments, literary and
                    instructive classes, reading-room, gymnasium, saving and loan association and philanthropic offices.
                    Many can remember that large square red brick building without a steeple as it stood on 
                        Meridian
                     and 
                        New York
                     streets, with its open doors inviting all the city to a higher, fuller life.
            It was an "institutional church" in the days when such churches were few and were
                    widely criticised. Now when every church has its wider reach into city life, and broader
                    interpretation of the religious life as the whole life, it is hard to realize that this has come to
                    pass within only thirty years, through the leadership of such pioneer workers as those of 
                        Plymouth
                     Church.
            Mr. McCulloch in 1877 came from 
                  Sheboygan, Wisconsin
               , to this church, situated as it then
                    was on the corner of Circle and Meridian streets, with a small and earnest membership desirous of a
                    fuller religious life. His idea that the religious life comprises the social, home and business
                    life, impelling towards justice, kindliness and aspiration equally in all relations, found ready
                    response in his congregation, as Christ's true and simple message. And  they worked with him in carrying this message into practical
                    application. He felt that as a minister his parish was the whole city; so he took increasing share
                    in civic and charitable efforts, drawing with him his people as active helpers when help was needed.
                    Thus 
                        Plymouth
                     Church came to be recognized as a great center of living Christianity, civic altruism
                    and culture, a true House of Life with open doors for all.
            The problems of the usefulness of his church, Mr. McCulloch took up with ardent enthusiasm. He
                    brought to his ministry the influence of a cultured 
                        Wisconsin
                     home, five years of active business life and practical philanthropic work, three years
                    of definite theological study in the seminary and seven years of church work in 
                        Sheboygan
                    . His spiritual insight, power of constructive thought, practical judgment and
                    open-minded recognition of others' efforts were great forces when allied with a winning
                    personality, a tender heart and high ideals.
            In his wide reading and travels he had collected many ideas that helped him in planning his work, and
                    he was constantly in communication by letter and visit with authors and workers all over the
                    country. Henry Ward Beecher, Lyman Abbot, Edward Everitt Hale, Jane Addams, Edward Eggleston, David
                    Starr Jordan and others shared their experiences with him, while he drew rich inspiration and
                    freshened outlook from the reading of old and new masters of thought in religion, science and
                    economics The action of a consecrated purpose and energetic mind on these materials resulted in the
                    building up of a uniquely useful and live church, the units of which were magnetized by the fervent
                    love and steady light of their chosen leader.
            At this early time the life of the church consisted of the Sunday-school, the morning and evening
                    services, the Ladies' Union and the Young People's Society, lines of usefulness
                    that developed under Mr. McCulloch's guidance into new helpfulness, of which more extended
                    account will follow. Working with their pastor, the church soon gained momentum in its services and
                    organization and attracted many new and earnest workers, a large percentage of whom had not before
                    been identified with church life.
            
            By 1884 the congregation required a larger building in which to carry on its work and express its
                    widening influence. By the sale of bonds, free contributions and careful attention to details of
                    management, the large new church was erected. In the wide rooms and halls thus provided this House
                    of Life grew to its fullest in ministry to thousands.
            It was felt by the membership that many of "the unchurched" were kept from
                    spiritual fellowship by the rigid creed formerly demanded for admission to the church.
                    Christ's simple words, "Come, follow me," to his first disciples, were
                    considered to embody the essential pledge to Christian life, the basic element in all statement of
                    creed. It was therefore adopted as the one needful promise for alliance with the church, being
                    expressed in the church constitution:
            "The idea of this church is that of a body of brethren and sisters, friends, associated for
                    Christian work and worship. Its members strive to do to others as they would be done by, and to
                    undertake such work as may be thought to lie within the scope of a Christian church.
            "As a church of Jesus Christ, gathered in His name and to do His work, we declare our union
                    in faith and love with all who love Him.
            "We associate ourselves together for Christian worship and for Christian work, pledging
                    ourselves to carry out the objects of this church.
            "These objects are: Public worship of God, weekly renewal of religious sympathies and
                    affections, mutual acquaintance and assistance, and the alleviation, by physical and spiritual
                    means, of poverty, ignorance, misery, vice and crime.
            "To carry out these objects, we pledge our time, our talents and our money according to our
                    ability.
            "Come with us; for the world needs you and yours."
            Attracted by this kindliness of welcome and simplicity of aspiration, men, women and children from
                    all walks of life gathered for the services; teachers, commercial travelers, professional men, men
                    of low degree as well as men of high degree, truly "all sorts  and conditions of men," united in their belief in one fatherly
                    God and His good purpose for their lives.
            Mr. McCulloch's sermons, morning and evening, conveyed his thought to his people with the
                    force of sincerity and clearness. He was close to God and drew others into nearness also, as he
                    explained God's presence in all the things of the world and His will in personal lives. His
                    words brought light to the bewildered, comfort to the sorrowing and energy to the eager. He pointed
                    out the good wherever found, and talked of it in such a way as to make others desire it. He urged
                    all to find their God-imposed task of usefulness and to perform it for the Larger Good. As Good
                    thrilled him, so Wrong aroused his opposition. He studied and denounced from the pulpit all
                    selfishness and cruelty, either individual or collective, keeping well abreast of daily occurrences
                    that were occupying men's minds and claiming their activities. On the burning questions of
                    capital punishment, wages and labor, prison conditions, war, industrial evils, etc., he took a
                    courageously definite stand on highest ethical grounds, urging each individual's
                    responsibility for right, strong action in regard to them.
            The congregations were large, often testing the capacity of the building—even manybeing
                    unable to enter because of the pressure. It was his observation that the evening services drew the
                    most needy and wistful souls, and he made particular effort to feed and satisfy them. His word was
                    always helpful and illuminating, but he added on occasion illustrated talks and musical services.
                    Once a month the evening sermon was illustrated with stereopticon pictures thrown upon the screen. A
                    series on the Life of Christ was given with all the beautiful world-known portrayal of it in picture
                    and music. Another series was the Inspirational Poems of the World, including Burns's
                    "Cotter's Saturday Night" and religious poems of Whittier. Another
                    evening was given to "Our Dumb Animals," with famous pictures by Landseer and Rosa
                    Bonheur, with a lesson on kindness to animals.
            Many of these slides were made to order from copies of pictures obtained by Mr. McCulloch in his
                    travels. The collection became widely known and was sent for and used in other cities.  Not only through the eye was the imagination of the people kindled but
                    through the ear also, for 
                        Plymouth
                     Church possessed a great organ with special attachments which was the delight of all
                    performers and music-lovers in the city. The monthly song services with organ-harmonies were eagerly
                    watched for and attended. The pastor published a collection of Hymns of Faith and Hope, drawn from
                    all sources, for the use of his church.
            Mr. McCulloch loved children dearly, seeing in them what Christ saw of innate good and trust and
                    right impulse, seeking guidance in a difficult world. His personal relationship with them was very
                    beautiful and tender. He gathered them about him for stories or excursions into the fields and wcods
                    for flowers or nuts or watching the birds, seeing God in all nature. Often the children were invited
                    to an afternoon romp in the big churchroom upstairs; or for games and refreshment; or a
                    dolls' reception. In his morning sermon a special story-talk always came first for the
                    children, enjoyed keenly also by their elders, and they took part in the services at Christmas,
                    Easter and Children's Day, when they each received a potted plant or bulb. Thus they felt
                    their place in the church life. These children, now mature men and women, speak of this early
                    influence with appreciation and reverence.
            In the primary grade of the Sunday-school the then new kindergarten methods were introduced,
                    following Froebel's ideas of sense and thought connection. Simple songs, Bible stories and
                    nature studies were provided. A study of Christ's life was arranged for pupils of the older
                    classes, with special emphasis on character dex-elopment, thus making the connection evident between
                    the Old Story and the young life studying it, seeking a way to imitate it. Adult classes studied
                    under earnest teachers certain helpful inspirational books, such as Carpenter's
                    "Three Gospels." The Sunday-school song-book contained cheerful and melodious
                    songs, old and new, that the children loved to sing. They formed choruses under skilled leaders and
                    had an orchestra of many instruments. Each child made a weekly pledge of money that enabled the
                    school to be not only self-sustaining but to contribute 
                    generously to the Orphan Asylum, the Kewsboys' Home, and the Coal Mine hlission. This
                    developed altruism and a sense of business responsibility.
            The women of the church were organized into the Ladies' Union, meeting monthly for
                    charitable sewing, church-housekeeping, money-raising, home missions and other combinations of
                    effort. The idea of a monthly church supper and social was carried out with great success, drawing
                    great numbers and creating general cordial relations.
            Mr. McCulloch collected and published a book of songs, known as 
                        Plymouth
                     Songs, containing such old favorites as "The Old Oaken Bucket,"
                    "Marching Through 
                        Georgia
                    ," "Home, Sweet Home," "It's a Way We Have
                    at 
                        Plymouth
                    ," etc. Singing these lustily together promoted great friendliness and pleasure
                    and made the socials memorable.
            Once on a visit among the poor he found a new-born baby wrapped only in a gunny-sack, as no
                    preparation had been possible for the poor, sick and discouraged mother. The Maternity Society was
                    immediately organized in the Ladies' Union and many little garments were made in
                    anticipation of such need. This source of supply became known throughout the city and was freely
                    drawn upon as occasion required.
            The Young People's Circle was a great source of energetic life in the church, enlisting as
                    it did all the primitive and newly awakened forces in combined effort. The same principle was
                    utilized in a particular way among the young girls composing the King's Daughters Circle,
                    affording an opportunity for usefulness and help among them. Mr. McCulloch realized that people
                    became more intimately acquainted and ripened into friendships quicker when working together in the
                    accomplishment of a worthy purpose—at the same time dei-eloping their abilities. He had
                    keen discernment in perceiving the abilities of people and in setting them to work. In addition to
                    these regular branches of church work there was the Thursday evening meeting for prayer and
                    communion and "conversation on ideals."
            The institutional features that were distinctive developed gradually  and naturally as the idea of a fuller life through the education of
                    faculties materialized and the eager workers became anxious to reach other lives wistful for higher
                    opportunity. This was before the day of Y. M. C. A. classes, the night schools and settlement
                    houses.
            A reading room was established, supplied with a large number of books, magazines and papers.
                    Centrally located as it was, it became very popular and during the day and evening was in steady
                    use.
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Lecture Course, for many years a great feature of 
                        Plymouth
                     life, brought noted speakers, home and foreign, every two weeks to talk on the great
                    themes of the day. Beecher, Matthew Arnold, Canon Farrar, Henry George, Justin McCarthy, Senator
                    Bruce, Booker TTrashington, Lew Tl'allace and Amelia Edwards were among the prominent
                    workers in all fields who contributed to the "more abundant" life of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The prices were nominal—five lectures for a dollar—and the
                    crowded houses sustained the lecture course. The 
                        Plymouth
                     auditorium was an open forum and any entertainment that was intellectually worthy and
                    contributed to the higher life was welcome. Sometimes a famous entertainer would read or recite, or
                    a noted singer or instrumentalist vould occupy an evening. Thus many tired minds were refreshed,
                    flagging spirits were stimulated and thousands had happier and fuller life because of 
                        Plymouth
                     and its ministry in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            A gymnasium was fitted up in the basement for the boys and men and young women, in charge of
                    competent instructors, and the opportunity was much used for physical development and athletic
                    enjoyment.
            To develop thrift and habits of business along right lines, The 
                        Plymouth
                     Sai-ing and Loan Association was established to encourage small savings and to make
                    loans at low interest rate. Laboring people of all ages were thus enabled to make their
                    deposits—dimes, quarters or dollars—weekly, at interest, making a beginning
                    toward future competence or the inevitable "rainy day." It was one of the first
                    endeavors of the kind in the State and resulted in much good.
            
            A travel class met twice a month to roam in imagination over the world. Its motto was, "He
                    knows no land who only knows his own." They studied the great cities of Europe by book,
                    stereopticon and descriptions of eye-witnesses; and in 1891 the class took a three months'
                    trip abroad under Mr. McCulloch's guidance, visiting the places they had studied.
            Mr. McCulloch's business training and natural aptitude for organization were constantly
                    employed in the conduct and management of these varied lines of work. He was always able to arouse
                    the interest and energies of those about him, and was thus able to relegate much of the work to
                    responsible committees; but he was ex-officio chairman of every committee and saw to it that things
                    were done. He made great use of publicity methods, in leaflets, circulars, cards of special appeal,
                    newspaper channels, etc. The entire 
                        Plymouth
                     enterprise was managed in accordance with strict business methods.
            As the need appeared, classes were formed to study mathematics, domestic economy, literature,
                    stenography, civics and any subject that a given number of people desired to study. This was known
                    as the 
                        Plymouth
                     Institute, opened in 1884, " a school for busy people." Instruction
                    was offered at a low rate, thus remunerating earnest teachers, and enabling servants and other day
                    workers in office, store or factory to spend their evenings in enlarging their cramped faculities,
                    in acquiring knowledge and fellowship and higher training. This work developed rapidly and some of
                    the classes became famous in the city. Special Browning, Hawthorne and Emerson studies were notably
                    pursued.
            Friday afternoon lectures on historical subjects pertaining to our state and country, filled the
                    auditorium successively for a long period with school children. Men and women of note from near and
                    far talked on such themes as, "Women of the Revolution," "The
                    Indians," "Pioneer Life in Indiana," "Mexico,"
                    "Heinrich Hudson's Voyage in the Half Moon," "William
                    Penn," etc. It was a similar movement to that carried on by the Old South Church in 
                        Boston
                     and was very successful in conveying  impressions of
                    the heroic life lived to establish peace and welfare in our common country. "Boys are
                    scarcer than dollars," was an impelling thought with Mr. McCulloch. "Good boys
                    will make good men; let us help them by showing them noble examples in our history."
            The church auditorium was open to outside engagements–high school graduation exercises,
                    conventions of teachers and civic gatherings. In a special room upstairs, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Literary Club held its weekly meetings for fifteen years. The ladies of the Flower
                    Mission made headquarters here for the planning and execution of their tender work. Every room in
                    the house was occupied almost constantly by groups of eager people engaged in some branch of the
                    Father's business. One-half of the lower floor of the administration part of the building
                    was occupied permanently by the offices of the Charity Organization Society and the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Benevolent Society, and hither came not only all who were engaged in carrying on these
                    instrumentalities, but the weary poor driven to the limit by their deprivations and troubles.
            In 1878 Mr. McCulloch had accepted the presidency of the Benevolent Society, then at so low anebb of
                    vitality that the propriety of disbanding was under consideration. He was immediately interested in
                    the possibilities of helpful work and made suggestions as to feasible activities with such
                    enthusiasm that the leadership was unanimously bestowed upon him; and he was re-elected year after
                    year until his death in 1891.
            In taking up this work for the whole city he studied the situation carefully and began the
                    institution of thorough measures of relief, the uppermost ideas being systematization of all the
                    charities of the city and the education of the needy to self-help, and thus the prevention of
                    pauperism. Prominent men of the city worked with him in planning and execution. Every case of need
                    was recorded. Investigation was the basis of relief. The strictly meritorious and those down
                    temporarily and because of chance misfortune were recognized; those who followed almstaking as a
                    trade or business, and were always dependent, were  recognized,
                    also, as the problem to be solved in the last analysis of benevolence. Out of this came the data
                    that made possible his treatise on "The Tribe of Ishmael," a study of progressive
                    family degeneracy running back through several generations to a single pair whose progeny, at the
                    writing, numbered over three thousand souls.
            The Charity Organization Society was formulated in 1880 as a "clearing house" in
                    the administration of intelligent help. Applicants for relief were referred to various allied
                    organizations, such as the Orphan Asylum; the Friendly Inn and wood-yard, where work and relief were
                    associated; the Flower Mission, with trained nurses if needed; or to some one of the many church
                    agencies, the township relief officer, etc. County asylums and prisons throughout the State were
                    visited and studied with a view to better care of the inmates and agitation for reforms. The
                    Children's Aid Society and Free Kindergarten undertook the great task of caring for and
                    training dependent and neglected children.
            Authority was sought in the Legislature for the establishment of a Board of Children's
                    Guardians with legal power to protect children against the abuse and evil influences of unworthy
                    parents. This law has resulted in great good to hundreds of children during the years since, in
                    being separated from their vicious parents and placed in good homes.
            The workhouse, free bath and a dime saving association were other lines of work started by the
                    awakened altruism at this time. The Summer Mission for sick babies and their mothers at 
                        Fairview Park
                     was begun at this time and has grown and extended into large proportions. Cottages have
                    been built and furnished year after year, by the McCulloch Club, churches and enthusiastic
                    individuals, until a small village has arisen, the original cottage having been christened
                    "McCulloch Cottage."
            Much might be said concerning each of these efforts in detail, as they are still operative and
                    well-known for their effective helpfulness. They make a long chapter in the life story of one man;
                    of his initiative, his executive capacity and success in enlisting helpers for the time and those
                    upon whom his mantle fell.
            
            In all these efforts Mr. McCulloch and his church were leading actors. Great labor was called for in
                    arousing and molding public opinion and in effecting the organization and support of the various
                    measures. His courage and energy and wisdom were unflagging. As the work developed rapidly the
                    Indiana associated charities became foremost in the country for effectiveness. In 1890 Mr. McCulloch
                    was elected president of the National Conference of Charities and Correction, and the 1891 meeting
                    was held in 
                        Plymouth
                     Church. This was in May, and was the last public appearance of Mr. McCulloch in
                    connection with the charities to which he had given so much of his life and effort.
            After his death in December, 1891, the church activities continued as before for some time, but
                    without the moving enthusiasm lent by their instigator. Under the pastorate of Mr. Dewhurst, who
                    succeeded him, a neighborhood settlement house was opened in a congested quarter of the city where
                    good influences were exerted by classes and club work. In 1903 the church property was taken by the
                    general government for the erection of the post office building, and the institutional character of
                    the church was changed by its up-town location.
            But in its life it had started forces that will never die. It had demonstrated the usefulness of the
                    church as a House of Life for a city's people; inasmuch as the people who met there lived
                    better lives for it. The organizations born there are still existing in higher development, though
                    in new offices and in some cases under new names. For they were based on true principles of service
                    to human need in its many phases. 
                        Indianapolis
                     is a city known far for its well-organized charities, and for its general culture,
                    largely because a church door stood open all day, and every day and night, instead of three hours a
                    week.
         
         
         
            THE PROPOSED CONSTITUTION OF INDIANA.
            
               BY JACOB P. DUNN.
            THE paper on "The Development of State Constitutions," read by Professor Coleman
                    before the 
                        Illinois
                     Historical Association, and published in the Indiana Quarterly Magazine of History for
                    June, 1911, contains a passage which seems to me to call for some correction, in the interest of
                    historical accuracy. It is as follows:
            "Governor Marshall has this year embarked in a revolutionary scheme of procuring the passage
                    in the Legislature, by the support of the Democratic members, of a bill submitting a new
                    constitution to the people and providing means of counting the Democratic party as a vote for the
                    constitution. The present constitution, while it provides a required process for amendment, makes no
                    provision for the calling of another constitutional convention, nor does it make any mention of the
                    possibility of a new constitution. Governor Marshall and members of the Legislature have argued that
                    this leaves the door open for the Legislature to submit a new constitution to the people. As far as
                    Indiana is concerned, however, there would be just as much precedent for the Governor himself
                    submitting a new constitution to the people without the intervention of the Legislature. All
                    precedents call for a constitutional convention. If, on the other hand, the new constitution be, as
                    is claimed by the opposition, not in fact a new constitution, but a series of amendments to the old,
                    the whole procedure is plainly unconstitutional."
            Although this is a feature of current history, it will probably occur to the reader that, for the
                    present at least, the matter is political rather than historical; and I confess that my chief
                    interest in it is political, though I think it is so in the best sense of the word. The chief end of
                    the proposed constitution is to secure honest elections; and I believe that, without honest
                    elections, republican government is a sham and a mockery. For 
                    that reason, for nearly twenty-five years, I have done all that was in my power to secure honest
                    elections in Indiana.
            In 1888, as secretary of the self-appointed committee that prepared the Australian Ballot law for
                    submission to the Legislation, I drafted that law, substantially as it was adopted, and as is still
                    stands. It made a great improvement in the elections of the State, but there are some weak spots in
                    it that can be reached only by change in the constitution. The central purpose of the Australian
                    system is to enforce an absolutely secret ballot. It cannot prevent a man from selling his vote, but
                    it aims to prevent a corrupt voter from proving that he voted as he agreed with his purchaser.
            As the present constitution of Indiana gives suffrage to illiterate voters, no valid law could
                    provide a system of election under which illiterates could not vote, and the only feasible mode of
                    evading this difficulty was to allow the poll clerks to mark their ballots for them. Unfortunately
                    this has become a common means for vote-buying—the poll clerks, in violation of their
                    oaths, signalling to the purchaser how the vote has been cast. As there were over 40,000 illiterate
                    voters in Indiana in 1900, and there are many more now, the menace of this defect is obvious; and it
                    is the more so because many of these illiterates are unnaturalized foreigners, who are allowed to
                    vote in Indiana on "declaration of intention" to naturalize, after only six
                    months' residence in the State. Many of them have no real intention of becoming citizens,
                    and, have no interest in elections, beyond the sale of their Totes. This evil is so apparent, and so
                    appalling, that it would be painful indeed, if, when the people finally have opportunity to vote to
                    remove it, the reform should be lost through any popular misunderstanding of the right of the people
                    to alter their form of government.
            This right of the people is fundamental in American government. It can be no more plainly stated than
                    in the declaration of our present constitution: "The people have, at all times, an
                    indefeasible right to alter and reform their government." The constitution of 1816 called
                    it "an inalienable and indefeasible  right to alter or
                    reform their government in such manner as they may think proper," but the meaning is the
                    same. A right that is "indefeasible" is "inalienable." It cannot
                    be taken away, or given away, or lost in any manner. Moreover, it is a legal right and not a
                    revolutionary right. It is not conferred by the constitution, but is recognized by it. No right
                    recognized by the constitution is "revolutionary." The constitution is the
                    fundamental law of the State, and only such things as are in violation of it are
                    "revolutionary."
            This brings us to Professor Coleman's first erroneous statement of facts, that,
                    "Governor Marshall has this year embarked on a revolutionary scheme." In what
                    sense is it "revolutionary"? A revolution is "the overthrow of an
                    established political system." Nothing is overthrown here. All that is done is to provide
                    for allowing the people to exercise their indefeasible and constitutional right of voting on a
                    question of altering their constitution. The utmost that is claimed by any one is that the
                    Legislature exceeded its constitutional power in submitting the question. I deny this; but even if
                    it were true, every unconstitutional act passed by the Legislature would be equally
                    "revolutionary." The use of the word by Professor Coleman in this connection must
                    be classed as mere unfounded epithet, and not as impartial historical statement.
            Of like character is the statement that the "scheme" provides "means of
                    counting the Democratic party vote as a vote for the constitution." By this Professor
                    Coleman reduces the adoption of a principle of vast importance to the narrow limits of temporary
                    party expediency. He overlooks the fact that the principle of party action is made open to all
                    parties; and not only on this occasion, but also as to all future proposals for amendments. He
                    overlooks the fact that the same principle has been adopted in 
                        Nebraska
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    , and that it has been upheld by the supreme courts of both those States as
                    constitutional, instead of being pronounced "revolutionary."
            But worst of all, he overlooks the reason of the provision, The obstacles that have commonly been
                    placed in the way of  constitutional changes by the various
                    States are not for the purpose of preventing such changes—the States all concede
                    expressly the right of the people to change their constitution at will—but merely to
                    insure due consideration of the changes proposed. In practice all these expedients have failed, and,
                    as we have learned by experience in Indiana, it is almost impossible to get the people to consider
                    such questions, or even to vote on them. This has led thinking men to the conclusion that the one
                    way to insure the consideration of a constitutional change, or any other question, by the American
                    public, is to make it a political issue. The correctness of this view is already demonstrated in
                    Indiana. The proposed constitution has already received more consideration than any constitution or
                    constitutional amendment ever submitted in this State; and it is safe to say that by the time it is
                    voted on it will have received fuller consideration than any constitution ever voted on in 
                        America
                    , with possibly the exception of the constitution of the 
                        United States
                    .
            Let us now pass to the legislative power of initiation, which is denied by Professor Coleman. It has
                    become so common in this country for newspapers and individuals to criticise and belittle
                    legislatures, that the public has almost lost sight of the fact that the legislators are
                    "the representatives of the people." and are clothed with sovereign power as to
                    legislation. The constitution of Indiana vests "the legislative authority of the
                    State" in the General Asembly; and the Supreme Court has repeatedly decided that,
                    "The legislative authority of this State is the right to exercise supreme and sovereign
                    power, subject to no restrictions except those imposed by our constitution, by the Federal
                    constitution, and by the laws and treaties made under it." (101 Ind., p. 564.) Unless such
                    a restriction is pointed out—and in this case none has been or can be pointed
                    out—nobody can properly call an exercise of legislative power
                    "revolutionary." Any legislative action, not constitutionally prohibited, is
                    regular and legal, by the provisions of the constitution itself, and by the established rulings of
                    the highest courts. The initiative steps for  the adoption of a
                    new constitution are necessarily legislative. They are neither executive nor judicial, and they
                    cannot be taken by the people themselves. The Supreme Court of the 
                        United States
                     has decided that constitutional reform must be initiated by the legislature, if there
                    be one in existence. (7 Howard, p. 1.)
            But Professor Coleman appeals to precedent, and says that "all precedents call for a
                    constitutional convention." Let us consider this question, and first the definition and
                    function of precedent. Under the unwritten constitution of 
                        Great Britain
                    , precedent is everything in deciding what the constitution is, for Parliament can
                    change the constitution at will, and there is no way of determining its provisions but by the
                    precedents of Parliamentary action. But even in 
                        Great Britain
                     these precedents impose no restriction on action, because Parliament can override any
                    precedent, and, indeed, must necessarily do so whenever it amends the constitution.
            In the 
                        United States
                     we have written constitutions, which prescribe the powers of the several departments of
                    government, and precedents are of only secondary importance. The main question here is, what does
                    the constitution say; and precedent is of use chiefly as an interpretation, or construction, of the
                    written provision. Of necessity there can never be any precedent for anything that is done for the
                    first time; and if the exercise of sovereign power were limited by precedent, instead of by
                    definition or principle, it would be impossible to provide for any new emergency. For example, there
                    was no precedent for the Legislature in this State concerning natural gas, and no provision for it
                    contemplated in the constitution, because nobody ever dreamed of natural gas before it was
                    discovered. But the sovereign power of legislation, vested in the General Assembly, gave ample
                    authority for its full regulation.
            Professor Coleman states that the present constitution "makes no provision for the calling
                    of another constitutional convention," and it does not, in express terms; but it covers the
                    ground when it vests "the legislative authority of the State" in the General
                    Assembly. He says, "nor does it make any mention of the possibility  of an new constitution;" but it certainly does mention
                    "the possibility," in the words, "the people have, at all times, an
                    indefeasible right to alter and reform their government." These are not mere abstractions.
                    Under similar, and no stronger provisions, thirty new constitutions have been adopted in States of
                    the Union, which, like Indiana, had no express constitutional provisions for new constitutions, and
                    most of which, like Indiana, had express provisions for special amendments to the constitution.
            It is quite true that most of the new or proposed constitutions of the American States have been
                    prepared by constitutional conventions; but it is not true, as Professor Coleman states, that
                    "all precedents call for a constitutional convention." In all of the thirteen
                    original States but 
                        Delaware
                     and 
                        Massachusetts
                    , the first constitutions were prepared by the Legislatures. The first constitution of 
                        Nebraska
                     (1866) was prepared by the territorial Legislature, and adopted by the people. The
                    State was admitted to the Union under it, and continued under it till 1875. In 1874, the Legislature
                    of 
                        Michigan
                     submitted a complete constitution to a vote of the people, without the intervention of
                    a constitutional convention. In 1898 the Legislature of 
                        Rhode Island
                     prepared and submitted a complete constitution to the people, and resubmitted it in
                    1899.
            This last action was something more than a precedent, for the supreme judges of 
                        Rhode Island
                    , in 1883, had given a formal opinion (not a decision) that the Legislature had no power
                    to call a constitutional convention. (14 R. I., p. 649.) The 
                        Rhode Island
                     constitution, however, provided for special amendment, and the proposed new
                    constitution was submitted to the people, by the Legislature, as an "amendment" to
                    the existing constitution. It should be remembered, in this connection, that this opinion of the 
                        Rhode Island
                     judges was given without hearing arguments, and apparently without intelligent thought.
                    Its chief reason for denying the "power" of the Legislature to call a convention,
                    was that all necessary changes might be made by special amendment. This position is so absurd that
                    the opinion  has been ignored by every other State in the Union,
                    and it stands to-day alone—an unique monument to judicial fallibility.
            But, it may be urged that these are not Indiana precedents. As to this, another incident of written
                    constitutions must be remembered. To constitute a precedent there must not only be similar action,
                    but it must be under similar constitutional provisions. There could not be any exact precedent, in
                    Indiana, for any line of action at present, in the adoption of a new constitution, because there
                    never has been any such action in this State under the present constitutional provisions, or
                    anything resembling them. The constitutional convention of 1816 was elected under an enabling act of
                    Congress, which provided for the election of delegates exactly as delegates to the territorial House
                    of Representatives, of the same number and qualifications, and from the same districts. At that time
                    the people elected only the representatives in the Legislature, and these nominated ten citizens,
                    from whom Congress selected five to act as a council, or upper house of the Legislature.
            The enabling act authorized this body to meet, and to "first determine, by a majority of the
                    whole number elected, whether it be or not expedient at that time to form a constitution and State
                    government for the people within the said Territory; and if it be determined to be expedient the
                    convention shall be, and hereby are authorized to form a constitution and State government; or, if
                    it be deemed more expedient, the said convention shall provide by ordinance for electing
                    representatives to form a constitution or frame of government, which said representatives shall be
                    chosen in such manner, and in such proportion, and shall meet at such time and place as shall be
                    prescribed by the said ordinance; and shall then form for the people of said Territory a
                    constitution and State government."
            This provision giving to a body elected as an ordinary Legislature the power either to adopt a
                    constitution or to call a constitutional convention was also used in the enabling acts of
                            
                  Ohio, Illinois
                and 
                        Missouri
                    . In all the other enabling acts provision is made for the direct election of a
                    constitutional convention,  excepting that of 
                        Wisconsin
                    . In that case the provision was simply that the people might adopt a constitution, and
                    the mode of procedure was left to be fixed by the territorial Legislature. In Indiana the delegates
                    elected decided to act as a convention, and not only framed a constitution, but also adopted it
                    without submitting it to the people. The enacting clause of this constitution reads: "We,
                        the representatives of the People of the territory of Indiana *
                    * * do ordain and establish the following constitution or form of government;
                    and do mutually agree with each other to form ourselsves into a free and
                    independent State, by the name of the State of Indiana."
            At the adoption of the second constitution of Indiana, the General Assembly was a body of the same
                    character as at present; and it controlled the proceeding throughout. The constitution of 1816
                    provided that "every twelfth year after this constitution shall have taken effect"
                    a vote of the people should be taken on the question of holding a convention. If they favored it,
                    and "a majority of all the members elected to both branches of the General
                    Assembly" agreed to it, a convention was to be called, "which convention, when
                    met, shall have it in their power to revise, amend, or change the constitution." In other
                    words, the constitution conferred on the second convention the same power that had been exercised by
                    the first convention, of adopting a constitution without submitting it to the people.
            This provision of the constitution was wholly disregarded. No vote of the people on the question of
                    calling a convention was taken in 1828, or in 1840. In 1849 the General Assembly provided for a vote
                    "for or against the calling of a convention to alter, revise or amend the
                    constitution," and the vote favored it. In 1850 the General Assembly passed a law for a
                    convention, but for a convention without the powers prescribed by the constitution of 1816, and by
                    the vote of 1849. It provided that when the convention should hare agreed on the form of the
                    constitution, "The roll containing the draught of the amended constitution adopted by said
                    convention, and the proceedings of said convention, shall be deposited by the president and
                    secretary thereof, in  the office of the Secretary of
                    State." The Secretary was to certify a copy to the Governor, who was to lay it before the
                    next General Assembly; and it was to submit the proposed constitution to a vote of the people.
            The convention was held as thus provided, in all respects. It did not attempt to exercise the powers
                    given by the constitution, but confined itself to the duties prescribed by the Legislature. It did
                    not even submit the constitution it prepared to a vote of the people. That was done by the act of
                    the General-Assembly of February 14, 1851. The whole action was not only without precedent, but in
                    disregard of the provisions of the existing constitution. It can be justified only on the ground
                    that the Legislature, under its general authority, has the power to submit to a vote of the people
                    any question of fundamental law, if it be not expressly prohibited by the constitution. It was
                    defended on that ground, in the convention of 1851, by Robert Dale Owen, in his argument for the
                    adoption of the system of special amendment contained in the present constitution, in these words:
            "I am not prepared to say as to how far the abstract right of the Legislature extends in
                    regard to submitting to the popular vote propositions of amendment; nor am I prepared to say that as
                    a matter of abstract right they may not do so whenever they think it proper and expedient. But I say
                    if you insert such a provision as this, placing no greater check than that of requiring two
                    successive Legislatures to act affirmatively upon the question before it shall he submitted to the
                    people. I am convinced that it will be entirely satisfactory." (Debates. p. 1939.)
            It will be generally conceded that, so far as the disregard of existing constitutional provisions is
                    concerned, the action of 1851 would be very dangerous to adopt as a valid precedent for future
                    action, and yet it will be almost as fully conceded that the requirement of the Legislature that the
                    constitution be submitted to the people, was far wiser than the provision of the constitution of
                    1816 that the convention might finally adopt a new constitution, without submitting it to the
                    people. In any event, the action of 1851 cannot be invoked as a precedent for the position  that, when the constitution is silent on the subject, the
                    Legislature has no power to decide on the course of procedure in submitting a new constitution to
                    the people. The General Assembly of 1850, in its exercise of discretionary power, went far beyond
                    anything that is proposed at present.
            And while, from the standpoint of precedent alone, there are these examples of exercise of
                    legislative authority for the submission of a constitution to a vote of the people, in Indiana and
                    in other States of the Union, there cannot be shown, in all the history of 
                        Great Britain
                    , or of the 
                        United States
                    , a solitary case where an executive undertook to submit a constitution to the people.
                    What then shall be said of the historical accuracy of Professor Coleman's statement that,
                    "As far as Indiana is concerned, however, there would be just as much precedent for the
                    Governor himself submitting a new constitution to the people without the intervention of the
                    Legislature?"
            There remains Professor Coleman's final statement: "If, on the other hand, the new
                    constitution be, as is claimed by the opposition, not in fact a new constitution, but a series of
                    amendments to the old, the whole procedure is plainly unconstitutional." This claim is a
                    mere verbal quibble, based on confusion of the ordinary and the legal meanings of the word
                    "amendment." In law, the distinction between "amendment" and
                    "revision," cr "new enactment," is one of form and not of
                    subject matter; and this is so unix-ersally and firmly established as to all classes of written
                    instruments that it is unquestionable. For example, suppose I make a will, and later desire to
                    change it in some respect; if I rewrite the will, including the change, it is a new will; if I
                    merely add a codicil to the cld will, containing the new provision, it is an amended will.
            As to statute law the decisions are numerous, for most of the States provide, as Indiana does, that,
                    "No act shall ever be revised or amended by mere reference to its title, but the act
                    revised or section amended shall be set forth and published at length." Obvicusly, if you
                    repeal a part of an act, and let the remainder stand, you "amend" that act, in the
                    ordinary sense of the word.  But at every session of the
                    Legislature acts are "amended" in this sense, by new laws which repeal
                    "all laws and parts of laws in conflict herewith," but do not set forth what
                    remains in force of the laws so affected. It is the universal decision of the courts that such laws
                    are valid because they are not "amendments" in fcrm, but "new
                    enactments."
            As to constitutions. I know of but one case where the question was ever raised. It is evident that if
                    a new or proposed constitution is in fact mere "amendment," its character is not
                    changed by the mode of presentation; and, in consequence, if the present proposed constitution had
                    been adopted by a convention, word for word, and the claim that it is "amendment"
                    only were sound, it could not be submitted to a vote of the people, under the provisions of our
                    present constitution, until it had been adopted by two successive Legislatures. This exact question
                    was raised as to the 
                        Louisiana
                     constitution of 1898, which was attacked on the ground that it was not really a new
                    constitution, but only an amendment of the old one. The Supreme Court of 
                        Louisiana
                     promptly disposed of the point on the ground of form. saying: "If it be an
                    amendment, counsel's proposition is undoubtedly correct, but we think it is manifestly
                    incorrect. * * * it (the instrument) is, in our opinion, exactly
                    what it purports to be, a constitution, and not an amendment to an existing constitution."
                    (51 La. An., p. 434.)
            I have devoted so much space to this subject because, to me, the purification of the suffrage, which
                    is the central feature of the proposed constitution, is a matter of pressing and vital importance to
                    the American people. I submit to any sane man the question, "What does popular government
                    amount to if the electorate be debauched?" Is it less a hollow mockery than a jury trial in
                    which the jurors are for sale to the highest bidder? Every American who is at all familiar with
                    practical politics knows that the existing situation is most lamentable; and I should think that
                    those who hold aloof from politics, but who read such revelations as recently came from
                            
                  Adams county, Ohio
               , would be appalled. Cannot the conscience of the people  be aroused? Can they not be impressed with the solemn force of that
                    sentiment of the Ordinance of 1787: "Religion, morality and knowledge, being necessary to
                    good government, and the happiness of mankind"—not essential to the individual
                    merely, but to the public welfare? We are making not only history, but also conditions that will
                    have vast weight on the future. In heaven's name, let us at least try to make them such
                    that posterity will not have just cause to curse this generation. I feel at liberty to say that to
                    Governor Marshall the purification of the suffrage is the chief feature of the proposed
                    constitution; and I believe that future generations will be grateful for his effort to remove the
                    existing evil, even though some of his contemporaries may condemn him for it.
         
         
         
            INDIANA'S PART IN THE MAKING OF THE STORY "UNCLE TOM'S CABIN."
            
               BY JACOB P. DUNN.
            [This article appears also in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     News, September 2, 1911. Mr. Dunn has long been interested in matters pertaining to
                    Henry Ward Beecher and Harriet Beecher StOWe.—EDITOR.]
            APROPOS of the new biography of Harriet Beecher Stowe, by her son, Charles Edward Stowe, and her
                    grandson, Lyman Beecher Stowe, there is a side light on the biographical accuracy of the former that
                    is of especial interest to Indiana people, in the remarkable letter from him published in the last
                    number of the Indiana Quarterly Magazine of History, in the article, "A Station of the
                    Underground Railroad," by W. D. Waldrip, teacher of history in the 
                        Richmond
                     high school. The article refers to the activities of Levi Coffin, "president
                    of the underground railroad," at 
                  Sewport,
                            MTayne county
                (now 
                        Fountain City
                    ), Indiana. Mr. Waldrip states that he obtained much of his information from John Wright
                    Johnson, an aged 
                        Quaker
                     preacher, and a nephew of Levi Coffin, who, among other things, told him that
                    "Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe had visited Sewport twice, once while he was at the home of Mr.
                    Coffin, and once in after years," and that "much of the information about slave
                    life, and particularly the story of Eliza, was secured by Mrs. Stowe at 
                        Newport
                    ." Desiring further information, Mr. LValdrip wrote to Charles Edward Stowe,
                    and received in answer the letter printed on pages 67 and 68 (Vol. VII, No. 2, June, 1911), of the
                    Indiana Quarterly Magazine of History, part of which is as follows:
            "With regard to the story of the visit of Mrs. Stowe to the house of the old 
                        Quaker
                    , Mr. Coffin, you know as much as I do, and that is nothing at all. I doubt, if Mrs.
                    Stowe was still living and in possession of her faculties, if she would remember anything about it.
                    She always said herself that the orginal of Eliza  was a young
                    woman and her child, who were taken off the place of old Van Sant at night by Professor Stowe and
                    Henry Ward Beecher. Yet I think it by all means probable that there was a foundation to the story
                    and it was not made up entirely of whole cloth. I do not know that Mrs. Stowe was ever in Indiana.
                    She was in narrow circumstances for eighteen years after the marriage of my father and had heavy
                    cares. She would not have gone to Indiana without reason. Can you locate either of her brothers,
                    Charles or TVilliam, in that State as ministers of the Presbyterian church? If you can, you have
                    established the probability of a visit to that State, made by her; otherwise it is improbable that
                    she ever made such a visit. If she did visit Indiana before writing ‘Uncle Tom's
                    Cabin’ it was when she had no more idea of writing the book than of paying a visit to the
                    moon."
            If this statement could come to the eye of Mrs. Stowe, in the spirit world, the shade of Hamlet,
                    which might naturally be near her, would be moved to repeat, "Oh, wonderful son, that could
                    so astonish a mother." One can imagine her saying: "Is it possible he does not
                    know that I lived in 
                        Cincinnati
                     from 1832 to 1849; and that his uncle, Henry Ward Beecher, commenced his ministry at 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , Indiana, only twenty miles away in 1837; and went from there to the Second
                    Presbyterian Church at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where he remained from 1839 to 1847. Is it possible he does not know that his uncle
                    Charles was stationed at the Second Presbyterian Church of 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    , Indiana, from 1841 to 1851?"
            In reality Mrs. Stowe did not always say that the original of Eliza was the woman who was taken from
                    her home to Van Zant's. On the contrary she states expressly in the Key to Uncle
                    Tom's Cabin, that the original, as to personal description, was a quadroon girl who
                    attracted her attention while visiting in 
                        Kentucky
                    . But as to the incident of crossing the ice, which was a well-known fact, she expressly
                    states in the last chapter of "Uncle Tom," in the Key and in the introduction
                    mentioned above, that she used the historical incident. She even used the  woman's name—Eliza Harris—which was not
                    her real name, but one given to her by hlrs. Coffin, to conceal her identity until she got to 
                        Canada
                    .
            Indeed, the reference was well understood all through the Ohio valley; and Levi
                    Coffin himself mentions it in his "Reminiscences," as follows: "The story
                    of this slave woman, so graphically told in Harriet Beecher Ston-e's ‘Uncle
                    Tom's Cabin,’ will, no doubt, be remembered by every reader of that deeply
                    interesting book. The cruelties of slavery depicted in that remarkable work are not overdrawn. The
                    stories are founded on facts that really occurred, real names beingwisely withheld, and fictitious
                    names and imaginary conversations often inserted. From the fact that Eliza Harris was sheltered at
                    our house for several days, it was generally believed among those acquainted with the circumstances
                    that I and my wife were the veritable Simeon and Rachel Halliday, the 
                        Quaker
                     couple alluded to in Uncle Tom's Cabin.' "
            The caution of "wisely withheld" names was of no force as to Eliza Harris. because
                    she was safe in 
                        Canada
                    , but it did affect a feature of the story that was almost as remarkable as the escape
                    over the floating ice. The man who met Eliza on the north bank of the river, near
                            
                  Ripley, Ohio
               , was not a 
                        Kentucky
                     neighbor, as described by Mrs. Stowe, but the Rev. William Lacey, of 
                        Newport
                    , Indiana, an agent of the underground railroad, who started her on her way, over that
                    line, without the intervention of the "senator" of Mrs. Stowe's book. The
                    story as told completely shielded the identity of those actually concerned in the escape.
            Possibly Mrs. Stowe never met Levi Coffin, but it is incredible that she did not know of
                    "the president of the underground railroad," for he was very active at 
                        Cincinnati
                     for years, and finally moved there in 1847. Katurally, Mrs. Ston-e would put little in
                    writing concerning it, on account of the security of both the agents and the escaping slaves; but in
                    one of her letters reminiscent of 
                        Cincinnati
                     life, she naively mentions "the underground milway, which, I may say, ran
                    through our house." Her father,  her husband, and her
                    brother, Henry, were all aggressive antislavery men, and if Henry, in particular, was not in touch
                    with the underground railroad, it was the only known thing in which he felt a deep interest that he
                    ever did keep out of. It is well known that he was a friend of Hiram Bacon, whose house, west of
                    Malott Park, was the 
                        Indianapolis
                     station; and, also, that he at times stayed over night at this house, and preached at 
                        Washington Church
                    , which Mr. Bacon had built.
            If Mrs. Stowe visited her brother, Charles, during his seven years' stay at 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    , she might naturally have stopped at 
                        Newport
                    , for she would have to pass it in going from 
                        Cincinnati
                     to 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    , and so the testimony of Friend Johnson is quite credible. But it is absolutely certain
                    that she visited Henry Ward Beecher at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , for there are plenty of witnesses living who testify to that. Moreover, it is almost
                    equally certain that she got her character of Uncle Tom here, from Uncle Tom Magruder, a very
                    religious old negro, who was freed by the Noble family, and who, with his children, was cared for by
                    them here.
            As to the originals of characters, one fact must be borne in mind, which was never better expressed
                    than by Mrs. Stowe herself in the Key in these words: "This work, more, perhaps, than any
                    other work of fiction that ever was written, has been a collection and arrangement of real
                    incidents—of actions really performed, of words and expressions really
                    uttered—grouped together with reference to a general result, in the same manner that the
                    mosaic artist groups his fragments of various stones into one general picture. His is a mosaic of
                    gems—this is a mosaic of facts." It is in this feature of the book that its
                    exaggeration lies. Nobody would say that a mosaic was a reproduction of nature, although every stone
                    in it was natural. In the story, a mass of isolated facts, "grouped together with reference
                    to a general result" about a small number of people, leaves the impression that it was a
                    picture of slavery as it existed in general. This it was not, but it was an appalling picture of the
                    everyday possibilities of slavery, based on actual facts.
            
            The principal characters are also mosaics, as illustrated above in the case of Eliza. Mrs. Stowe
                    states in the Key that the chief feature of the Uncle Tom character, putting religious duty above
                    obedience to his master, was taken from the Rev. Josiah Henson. But she had met Henson but once
                    before she wrote "Uncle Tom's Cabin," and that was early in 1830, while
                    at her brother Edward's, in 
                        Boston
                    . She had no knowledge of him in his family surroundings; and the 
                        Indianapolis
                     claim is that she got the material for her personal sketch here, just as she got that
                    for Eliza in 
                        Kentucky
                    . The nearest a contemporary statement of this. of which I have knowledge, is in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Journal of February 24, 1837, on the occasion of the death of Uncle Tom, and from it I
                    take the following:
            "To those unacquainted with Old Tom, the most interesting circumstance connected with him is
                    the probability that he gave the Iiame and the leading features of the character to Mrs.
                    Stowe's celebrated hero. Of course no one knows that to be the case, but there are some
                    circumstances which give it an air of probability. The coincidence of the character and the name are
                    not much in themselves, but connected with the fact that Henry IVard Beecher, during his residence
                    here, was a constant visitor of Uncle Tom's, well acquainted with his history, and a
                    sincere admirer of his virtues, the coincidence becomes more suggestive. We have even been told that
                    Mrs. Stowe herself sometimes called to see the old man. ‘Vncle Tom's
                    Cabin.’ too, was the name of his home among all of his acquaintances, and was a familiar
                    phase here long before Mrs. Stowe immortalized it. At all events, we know it is the impression with
                    all the friends of Mrs. Stowe, and her brother, in this city, that Old Uncle Tom was the original or
                    at least the suggestion of the hero of the cabin."
            This opinion appeared in various 
                        Indianapolis
                     papers repeatedly, at later dates, and it would be strange, if it were not well
                    founded, that none of the numerous friends and admirers of the Beechers received a denial of it,
                    which would necessarily have broken the universal faith in the tradition. It may be added that  there is another confirmation of it, not noted in the Journal
                    article. Uncle Tom had two children, Moses and a girl, Louisa, who was considerably younger. But
                    there lived with them another man, of about the age of Moses—they were all middleaged
                    people when Mrs. Stowe knew them—whose name was Peter. He had been a slave of Judge Isaac
                    Dunn at 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , and some time after the slaves in Indiana were freed, in 1820, Peter became lonesome,
                    and Judge Dunn made arrangements for him to live with the Magruders, whom he had known at 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    . The family therefore corresponded exactly to Uncle Tom's as described in
                    Chapter IV of the book, of Mose, Pete and the baby.
            After Lncle Tom's death the children lived for some years in a cabin in 
                        Wabash
                     street, opposite the present Empire theater, but later Louisa was furnished a home, at
                    what is now 454 Highland avenue, by Mrs. George Frank Miller. She lived there till her death, on
                    September 7, 1900, at the age of ninety-two years. It is the tradition in the Noble-Davidson family,
                    derived from the Nagruders, who always confided in their "folks," that Mrs. Stowe
                    not only visited Uncle Tom, but wrote part of her book in his cabin. This is, of course, incorrect,
                    as it is known that Mrs. Stowe did not begin writing the book till late in 1830. It is probably
                    based on the fact that she took notes of things that Uncle Tom said, for she was at the time writing
                    commonly for publication; and in the winter of 1850, before "Uncle Tom's
                    Cabin" was published, she wrote to her husband, "I can earn $400 a year
                    by writing." Her "
                        New England
                     Sketch," in Hall's Western Monthly Magazine for April, 1834, brought
                    her a prize of $50.
            Charles Edward Stowe puts a peculiar negative stress on the fact of things happening before his
                    mother thought of writing the book; but every identified fact in the book happened before that time;
                    and every identified character came to her notice before that time. Her whole life had been a
                    preparation for it, for she grew up in an anti-slavery atmosphere from childhood. She had maiiy
                    interesting experiences with slavery, especially during  her
                    residence in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , when occurred the anti-abolition riots of that city, and the mobbing of the office of
                    Birney's Philanthropist. "Uncle Tom's Cabin" must have been
                    written chiefly from experience, not research, for she began it late in 1850, and the publication
                    began as a serial in the New Era, on June 5, 1851. Indeed, she says in her introduction, after
                    detailing her personal observation: "It was not for many years that she felt any call to
                    make use of the materials thus accumulating."
            In view of all these facts it can hardly be questioned that Indiana contributed materially to the
                    making of the book.
         
         
         
            THE BATTLE OF BELINGTON.
            
               BY JAMES H. DURNAM, Sergeant of the Ninth Indiana Regiment.
            [The skirmish of which the following account is given by a participant, was one of a series of minor
                    engagements taking place at 
                  Belington, West Virginia
               , July 7 to July 12, 1861.
                    Brigadier General T. A. Morris, in his official reports, writes of the enthusiasm of the men, their
                    coolness under fire, and his difficulty in restraining them. The advance regiments of the brigade
                    included Milroy's Ninth Indiana, Barnett's artillery, Stedman's
                    Fourteenth 
                        Ohio
                     and Detnont's Seventh Indiana, of all of which special mention is
                        made.—JAMRS G. RANDALL.]
            THE Battle of Belington! I never heard of it. Quite likely. As a matter of fact, it never found its
                    way into the reports of officers, and the newspaper reporters could get no clews to found a story
                    on; and more, it was solely and entirely a battle begun and fought to an end by privates and
                    "noncoms," independent of leadership except as some one more daring than his
                    fellows, would push to the front shouting to his fellows to "come on!" when a rush
                    would be made to support him. In short, it was the enlisted men's fight; with not a
                    commissioned officer in the fray except an instance of which hereafter.
            I do not remember the exact date when General T. A. Morris, with his brigade, took post at 
                        Laurel Hill
                    . The brigade consisted of the Sixth Indiana, Colonel Crittenden; Seventh Indiana.
                    Colonel Dumont; Ninth Indiana, Colonel hlilroy; Fourteenth 
                  Ohio, Colonel Steedman
               ; First 
                        West Virginia
                     Artillery, commanded by Colonel Barnett.
            The enemy, commanded by General Garnett, occupied a strong position, covering every approach to
                    Laurel Hill gap. His position was not only naturally strong, but was well fortified. His force was
                    about equal to that of General Morris, in infantry, while in artillery it was superior. General
                    Garnett also had a battalion of cavalry while we had none at all. It seems that our sole object in
                    moving up to Laurel Hill was to hold General  Garnett from
                    reinforcing Pegram at Rich Mountain, against whom General McClellan was
                    operating with a force under Rosecrans.
            We held the hamlet of Belington, our advance taking post well toward the base of Laurel Hill, a peak
                    of which, heavily timbered to the summit, loomed up on cur right front, and the Beverly pike wound
                    around its base and through the gap in a reverse curve like a reversed capital S, and then on
                    straight through the rebel camp. The writer of this little sketch had been inside the rebel camp,
                    and had pretty thoroughly scouted the country on every side of it, and therefore knew pretty well
                    all that was to be found out by an outsider, concerning its situation, its forces, its armament and
                    defenses. On moving up to our pcsition, General Henry S. Benham, chief of staff, asked me if I had
                    ever climbed the hill on our right front. I told him no; that there was fortification on the summit.
                    There was a rectangular work of logs and dirt about forty yards square on the summit which could not
                    be seen from our side of the hill, but was plainly visible from the rear. General Benham, however,
                    thought that if the enemy occupied it, we would have heard from it at once; so to make sure, a
                    company of the Sinth Indiana (I do not remember its letter, but it was the 
                        Logansport
                     company), was ordered to make a reconnoisance. They soon disappeared in the laurel
                    thickets, then the entire brigade held its breath for about five minutes, when the summit of the
                    hill flamed out in fire and smoke, while volley after volley of musketry fairly shook the hill
                    itself.
            It is needless to say that our fellows came down out of that neck of timber faster than they went up,
                    and that General Benham was fully satisfied as to its occupation by the enemy.
            The next day the trouble began. Sharpshooters, located in the tops of trees, began to send bullets
                    over into our camps. It became exceedingly annoying. General Morris was importuned by Colonel Milroy
                    to let him take the Ninth and capture the position; but General Morris had been ordered by General
                    McClellan to avoid bringing on an engagement. But "1' homme  propose, et Dieu dispose." It happened on Sunday morning.
                    Sergeant Copp, the "fighting parson" of the Ninth, was in the midst of one of his
                    fiery outbursts of religious zeal, when suddenly from the woods on the hillside came a rattling
                    fusillade, mingled with Yankee cheers and rebel yells. Sergeant Copp pocketed his Bible, and,
                    grasping his rifle which stood near, was off to the woods followed by his congregation as soon as
                    they could get their arms. What was left in camp of the men of the Ninth was in line like a flash
                    and in three minutes all were heading for the hill. But Sergeant Copp was stopped by General Morris,
                    as were the colonels of the other regiments, all of whom were ordered to sound the retreat and get
                    their men back. Officers were sent into the woods to bring the men out. Some of them were told to go
                    to H—alifax, while others I fear did not try to exercise much authority.
            In the meantime our fellows were getting the worst of it. The enemy's breatworks, with the
                    headlogs in place, gave them an immense advantage. In the center, or nearly so, of their works stood
                    a huge hemlock which towered far above the surrounding trees. I ran to Colonel Barnett, of the
                    artillery, and, pointing out the big hemlcck, told him to depress as much as he could with the trunk
                    for a line and give them a percussion shell or two. He gave them three. Two of them struck the
                    hemlock and exploded. The terrified Johnnies sprang up from behind their works, and—well,
                    that was all. They were driven out of their fort and the hill was carried in less time than it takes
                    my old hand to pen the fact. Colonel Barnett's third shell went over the hill and exploded
                    in the midst of a troop of cavalry that was just about to start on a reconnoisance of the situation.
            Thus ended the Privates' Battle of Belington. You see, the boys had got tired of taking
                    chances under the fire of sharpshooters. Several men had been wounded, one of them a sergeant of the
                    artillery, and so they made it up among themselves to drive the rebels out. There were some men from
                    all the regiments mixed up in the affair but most of them were from the Ninth Indiana and Fourteenth 
                        Ohio
                    .
            
            The next morning before sunrise, the company flag of Company B, of the Xinth Indiana, floated over
                    the fortifications of the enemy, who had silently evacuated the position during the night; and by
                    sunrise General Morris was in full pursuit to overtake them at Carrick's ford. But that is
                    another story.
         
         
         
            LETTERS OF SALMON P. CHASE, HENRY CLAY, HENRY GEORGE
            
                    ORlGINAL DCCUMENTS
                
            THE following letters are in the possession of Mrs. Grace Julian Clarke, of 
                  Irvington, Indianapolis
               , who inherited them from Joshua R. Giddings, her grandfather,
                    and George W. Julian, her father. They have never been published.
            The letters from Chase are an admirable illustration of his voluminous correspondence in the days of
                    the anti-slavery agitation. It can readily be seen how little confidence he had in the possibility
                    of the Whigs as a party doing anything against slavery, and how he, as an independent Democrat,
                    resented the assignment of pro-slavery sentiment to the Democratic party as a whole. He was
                    eyidently strongly inclining toward an entirely new alignment of parties, which he rather expected
                    to take place anyhow in 1844 or 1848, but which did not come till the fifties. Giddings in 1842 and
                    1844 was still working as an anti-slavery man in the Whig ranks.
            The Henry Clay letter is of the greatest interest. Clay's letters probably defeated him in
                    his race, as the nominee of the Whig party for the presidency in 1844. The burning question was that
                    of the annexaticn of 
                        Texas
                    , to which Polk and the Democratic party were passionately ccmmitted and which the Whig
                    party inclined to oppose. Clay, in a letter to the National Intelligencer (the so-called Raleigh
                    letter of April, 1844), strongly opposed the projected annexaticn of 
                        Texas
                    . This letter gained strong support from those who opposed slavery and looked upon the
                    annexation of 
                        Texas
                     as a pro-slavery conspiracy involving great injustice. Clay was the unanimous choice of
                    the Whig conventicn on May 1, for the presidency. With the thought, apparently, that some Southern
                    votes could be won, Clay wrote his famous "
                        Alabama
                    " letters to Stephen F. Miller, of 
                        Tuscaloosa
                    , on July 1, in which he made the unfortunate statement, "Personally I could
                    have no objection to the annexation of 
                        Texas
                    ," and on July 27, in which he added, "I should be glad to see it  (the annexation of 
                        Texas
                    ), without dishonor, without war, with the common consent of the Union, and upon just
                    and fair terms. I do not think that the subject of slavery ought to affect the question one way or
                    the other." These statements undoubtedly threw the votes of many anti-slavery men, which
                    would otherwise have gone to Clay, to the hitherto insignificant Liberty party, and determined the
                    election in Polk's favor. Some antislavery men, such as Joshua R. Giddings, in 
                        Ohio
                    , and Cassius M. Clay, in 
                        Kentucky
                    , continued to work for Clay through the election and resisted the drift toward the
                    Liberty party. In this letter, written in September, Clay shows that he had about given up the
                    Liberty party vote and that he was continuing his fatuous pursuit of the Southern vote by newspaper
                    articles counteracting Cassius Clay's anti-slavery campaign in his support. His recognition
                    that his own letters were doing damage and his inability to resist writing other letters are almost
                    pathetic. The Henry George letter needs no explanation.
            (From Salmon P. Chase to Joshua R. Giddings.)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 
                              
                           ,
                                        Feb. 15, 1842.
                        My dear Sir:
                        I thank you for your two last very interesting letters. The Nation is greatly
                                    indebted to you and other friends of freedom for the noble stand taken by you in
                                    regard to the right of petition. The country is beginning to awake at length to the
                                    danger of slaveholding encroachments, and the time is rapidly drawing on, I trust,
                                    when the champions of freedom will have the place which of right belongs to them in
                                    the confidence and favor of a long deceived and oppressed, but now awakening public.
                        I think, however, that it will be necessary to go to the bottom and plant ourselves
                                    upon the rock of fundamental principles. It will not do to compromise any more. The
                                    principle must be established and acquiesced in that the government is a
                                    nonslaveholding government—that the Nation is a non-slaveholding
                                    Nation—that slavery is a custom of State
                                    law—local—not to be extended or favored, but to be confined
                                    within the States  which admit and sanction it.
                                    I hardly think that the Whigs as a party are prepared to take this ground. The most
                                    they will do is to tolerate liberty. They will, in this quarter,
                                    hardly do that. They will not do it at all unless attachment to liberty is made
                                    subservient to party ends and secondary to party obligations. There has been
                                    something said of nominating Judge King by the Whig party. I do not expect it,
                                    though he has been a distinguished, able and influential Whig. Nor, to say the
                                    truth, do I desire it. For such is the policy of opposition to anti-salvery
                                    principle, with many of the Whig party, that thousands would vote for Shannon in
                                    preference to him, while many of the Democrats who would otherwise support him, will
                                    be persuaded that the nomination is a Whig maneuver, and will fall back into their
                                    party ranks. I would prefer, for one, to go intc the battle with our own strength.
                                    We may be defeated now, but at the next election parties must divide on principle,
                                    and then we must triumph.
                        I will send under cover to your address, a number of copies of our Liberty Address,
                                    directed to various gentlemen in 
                                        Washington
                                     to whom I will thank you to have them delivered. Why cannot the members
                                    from Veimont, who accord in principle with the Liberty convention, go home and plant
                                    the standard of Liberty upon the Green Mountains? I feel
                                    confident that the State would at once rally under it. Why submit any longer to the
                                    degradations so long endured? Why consent, at all, that the principles and rights of
                                    the free States—of the Nation, indeed–shall be trampled upon,
                                    or if recognized at all, recognized as a matter of grace and favor. I am tired of
                                    the cap-in-hand policy. I am unwilling to feel myself and my opinions to be
                                    contraband articles in my pditical party; only tolerated because not safely to be
                                    dispensed with. I cannot but think that you and others have these sentiments. Why
                                    not then act upon them? Excuse me if I seem too earnest. It seems to me that there
                                    is now a glorious opportunity to restore the government to its original principles,
                                    and I cannot but hope that before the Congress rises you and others will feel free
                                    to take the position of leaders of the Liberty party and issue an address to the
                                    people which will be responded  to throughout
                                    the land. I verily believe there are multitudes even in slave States who would hail
                                    such a movement with joy. If Mr. Adams could be induced to take a part in it, how
                                    could his illustrious life be more brightened at its close?
                        I have written to him a letter which I enclose. It is some years since I have seen
                                    him, and he has probably forgotten me. He knew, however, my uncle, formerly Senator
                                    from 
                                        Vermont
                                    , and perhaps also my uncle, the Bishop of 
                                        Illinois
                                    , well. I want you to vouch for me and to get for me, if possible, an
                                        early answer to my letter. It is principally upon the subject
                                    of slavery in the District, and the fundamental principles of the Liberty party. It
                                    does not, however, suggest any action such as is reierred to above. It would not be
                                    fit for me to suggest a course to him. You can
                                    converse with him on the subject with propriety. I should be glad to halre you read
                                    my letter to him.
                        M'e are organizing our Liberty party in this county, and expect to make a
                                    respectable rally.
                        
                                    Faithfully yours,
                                    S. P. CHASE.
                                
                         P. S. Please send the blue book and the census. [Note in another
                                    hand:] (How would it answer for you or some other gentleman to introduce a bill
                                    for the repeal of the laws sustaining slavery in the 
                                        District of Columbia
                                    ?)
                     
                  
               
                
            (Salmon P. Chase to Joshua R. Giddings.)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 
                              
                           ,
                                        February 9, 1843.
                        My dear Sir:
                        I take pleasure in acknowledging your kindness in sending me a copy of your very able
                                    pamphlet. It exhibits with great clearness and force the real line of demarcation
                                    between Liberty and Despotism in this American government of ours. The facts which
                                    it brings to view are well chosen and most apposite. In all that you say in
                                    reference to the constitutional limitations on the power of the government in
                                    relation to slavery. I most heartily concur with you. I might depart, perhaps, from
                                    some of your practical applications of your principles to cases  of fugitives from service; but this is nothing. The
                                    vindication of great principles by the clear and masterly argument of your pamphlet
                                    is a great service to the public, and will no doubt do much towards bringing the
                                    minds of those who read it to a correct apprehension of their rights and duties in
                                    regard to slavery.
                        There are some particulars, however. as to which I wish to state my objections. You
                                    condemn throughout, at least by implication, the Democratic party
                                    as the avowed ally of slavery, and yet it must be admitted that the principles of
                                    the Democracy, so vociferously proclaimed by every orator on every stump, and by
                                    every newspaper from every press, are in exact harmony with the principles of the
                                    Liberty men. "Neither Christianity nor Democracy can be pure,"
                                    says the 
                                        Ohio
                                     Statesman, "separated from each other; they are both founded
                                    on the love of mankind and the immutable principles of equality and justice.
                                    Oppressive, unequal and unjust laws are opposed to both Christianity and
                                    Democracy." "Equal rights and equal privileges for all
                                    men" is forever in the mouths of the Democrats. Will you say that this is
                                    pretence and hypocritical profession? Why not rather impute it to the ignorance of
                                    the proper application of their principles to slavery as it exists in this country,
                                    which you so justly observe, has hitherto prevailed? Why not hope that the
                                    Democrats, once enlightened on this subject, will bend their zealous efforts to
                                    carry out the principles of equality and justice in all their practical
                                    applications?
                        You refer to the fact that a Democratic legislature passed the
                                    "black act." You notice its repeal. but I do not observe that you
                                    mention that i t was repealed by a Democratic legislature. You may
                                    say, indeed, that a majority of Whigs voted for
                                    its repeal; but did not a majority of Whigs vote
                                    for its enactment? And if it be true that Democrats voted for the law, can it be
                                    iorgotten that the most conspicuous and influential member of the 
                                        Kentucky
                                     Commission was a Whig? That Mr. Andrew, who drafted the bill (for whom,
                                    by the way, I entertain very great respect and regard) was a Whig? That Goddard, and
                                    fithers as influential and distinguished, who supported the bill,  were Whigs? And if the passage of the "black
                                    act" must be spoken of as the act of a Democratic
                                    legislature, why should not the vote of censure on yourself be spoken of as the act
                                    of a Whig Congress? I notice that you say that one of your Democratic colleagues moved the resolution of censure. You do not mention that
                                    the resolution was prepared and brought forward by a Whig, who
                                    voted with you, I believe, on every distinctive Whig measure, and let me ask you
                                    frankly, do you believe you would have been sustained in your own district in the
                                    noble and independent position assumed by you, had not the Whig leaders been fearful
                                    of driving your friends into the ranks of the Liberty party and thus losing their
                                    majority? I have heard that many of the Whigs voted for your opponent, and that not
                                    a few Democrats voted for you. In addition to these Democrats might be mentioned a
                                    thousand Liberty men who voted for you, so that it can hardly be said that your
                                    re-election was made a party question. Be this as it may, however, I know very well
                                    that the II-higs here could not be brought to endorse your resolutions or approve
                                    your course. I made an effort to get up a public meeting fcr that purpose, and
                                    counselled with some influential gentlemen in relation to it. They were willing to
                                    have a meeting called and to attend, to censure the action of the majority of
                                    Congress, provided your course should also be disapproved of. Because the consent of
                                    your friends could not be obtained to this compromise, the idea of
                                    a general meeting was dropped. A meeting of Liberty men was called, which paid a
                                    just tribute to your courage and preseverance in maintaining and declaring the true
                                    principles of the constitution, and uttered a censure on the conduct of your
                                    censurers which I have no doubt the people will ultimately ratify.
                        I refer to these things to justify myself and others who are charged with want of
                                    candor because we will not make—I should rather say cannot
                                        make—any distinction between the respective attitude of the
                                    Whigs and Democrats, as parties, to the principles and measures of
                                    the Liberty men. I readily admit that there are many men in the
                                    Whig party whom Liberty men should honor for their steadfast adherence to
                                    principles; but so long  as Mr. Botts is just as
                                    good a Whig as Mr. Giddings, and Mr. Peyton is just as good a Whig (if not, indeed,
                                    in a party sense a much better) as Mr. Adams; so long as not one of the great and
                                    comprehensive principles for which Liberty men contend and which, as they believe,
                                    are indispensible to the restoration of sound and permanent prosperity, finds a
                                    place in any authorized definition of Whig
                                    principles, I must be allowed to say that it is unjust in you to charge those who
                                    have hitherto sustained you fearlessly and unwaveringly, with want of candor because
                                    they will not transfer your merits to your party
                                    by political imputation, and that, too, without repentance or the fruits thereof. I
                                    have not an opportunity of seeing the Whig papers of the State generally, but I am
                                    informed that your essays have appeared in very few of them. Your last was printed
                                    in the Gazette of this city, except a few paragraphs, which it was probably supposed
                                    would offend the Whig sentiments of its readers. Your expositions are certainly the
                                    most clear and able which have appeared of the topics which you discuss. Why, if
                                    they express the sentiments of your party, does not the party press publish them and
                                    say so? Why not at least let their readers know that such facts and principles
                                    exist?
                        My dear sir, you will pardon me, I trust, if I repeat what I have heretofore said,
                                    that I cannot but think that it is the duty of yourself and such as you to come out
                                    on our side—on the side of your beliefs and your principles. I cannot but
                                    believe that if you, Mr. Adams, hlr. Slade and others would take this ground, there
                                    might be a nomination of President which in the present state of parties would
                                    command the confidence of the people and receive the sanction of their suffrage. We
                                    could carry upon our banners not "Sorthern Rights" exactly, but
                                    Constitutional Rights, Liberty, Justice, Free Labor. We should not be obliged to
                                    make promises which the slave power would compel us to break or deprive us of the
                                    power of fulfilling. We should not be compelled to wear two faces, one at the South
                                    and another at the North. Open, frank and honest, we might hope for success. At any
                                    rate, we might deserve it. Will you think of this and write me?
                        
                        Pardon me for inflicting upon you this long letter, and believe me still,
                        
                                    Very truly and respectfully yours,
                                    S. P. CHASE.
                                
                        P. S. I ought to have mentioned, speaking of the notice taken here in one or
                                    two of the papers (except the Phil.) [the Philanthropist, Birney's
                                    anti-slavery, 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     paper] of your course in the [illegible] business, that every article
                                    approving of your position and justifying you fully was, so far as I observed,
                                    written by myself, and printed, tho' reluctantly, because I requested it as
                                    a matter of favor to me. I should have acknowledged long ago your letter about
                                    some bankrupt cases last summer. I did as you wished, but neglected to advise you of
                                    it. No inconvenience resulted, I hope.
                     
                  
               
                
            (Henry Clay to Joshua R. Giddings.)
            (Private and Confidential.)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Ashland
                           , Sept.
                                        21st, 1844.
                        My dear Sir:
                        Before I received your favor of the 16th instant, I had addressed a letter to you
                                    which I presume you have since received, but which had not reached you at the date
                                    of yours.
                        In that letter I expressed my great reluctance on account of the necessity arising
                                    out of the letter of C. M. Clay, Esq., of my publishing my note to the 
                                        Lexington
                                     Observer. I stated what I still believe, that there was great danger of
                                    the loss of four slave States if I left Mr. Clay's letter unnoticed. I
                                    stated to you also, that I expected a letter which I addressed to Pittsburg would be
                                    published, but it has not been, and why I do not know.
                        I regret extremely that state of things which you describe in 
                                        Ohio
                                    ; the loss of its Electoral vote will I fear lead to the inevitable
                                    defeat of the Whig party. Always prepared myself for any event, and ready to
                                    acquiesce in any decision of the People of the 
                                        United States
                                    , I should deplore that defeat less on my own account than that of our
                                    common country.
                        I transmit enclosed a letter in reply to one which you for-  warded from Mr. Hendry; but I sincerely hope it may not
                                    be published, because the public mind is in such a state of excitement that anything
                                    from me at this time is liable to the greatest perversion.
                        In certain States, which you can well imagine, it might occasion us a much greater
                                    loss than any gain in your quarter; and I must add that I am afraid all your
                                    Patriotic efforts to conciliate the support of the Liberty party are vain and
                                    fruitless. Their course in 
                                        Vermont
                                    , although our friend, Mr. Slade, was the candidate there for Governor,
                                    and their more recent course in Naine, cannot have escaped your observation. Another
                                    reason for not publishing my letter to Mr. Hendry is, that I have had many letters
                                    from 
                              New York, Pennsylvania
                            and 
                                        Ohio
                                     requesting me to forebear writing letters for publication.
                                    Notwithstanding which I am almost daily importuned to write others.
                        I thought that you would be pleased with that part of my note, drawn from me by Mr.
                                    Clay's letter, in which I state that the power over the Institution of
                                    Slavery in the Slave States is vested exclusively in them.
                        I will transmit to you in a few days an editorial article on the subject of my three
                                    letters in regard to 
                                        Texas
                                    , with which I hope you will be well pleased.
                        
                                    I am faithfully,
                                    Yr friend and ob't Servant,
                                    H. CLAY.
                                
                        The Hon. J. R. Giddings.
                     
                  
               
                
            (Henry George to George W. Julian.)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              417 First St.,
                              
                                 
                                    San Francisco
                                 
                              
                           ,
                                        Nov. 27, 1879.
                        Hon. George W. Julian,
                        Dear Sir:
                        Your kind note of the 19th received. I value your opinion, for I have a high
                                    admiration of your services and character, and what you say of my book pleases me
                                    very much. It is, as you say, profoundly religious—not that I am what is
                                    called a religious man, for I have no formal creed and never go to
                                    church—  but that a strong, deep
                                    religious idea rises inevitably out of such thought, and to me the faith that has
                                    thus arisen has been and is a great comfort—sometimes inexpressibly so.
                                    The book, in itself and its antecedents, represents to me a good deal of labor and
                                    not a little sacrifice, but it has brought at least this reward. You will understand
                                    what I mean, as you have understood what in the book some will not understand. I of
                                    course, do not know your inner life, but I know that to every man who tries to do
                                    his duty there come trials and bitterness in which he needs all the faith he can
                                    hold to.
                        I thank you for the good words which you tell me you will speak for the book. You can
                                    do in this way great service. For much depends upon first reception, and a book
                                    which challenges so much that is buttressed by authority, and which moreover comes
                                    from an unknown man, will of course be contemptuously pooh-poohed by the commonplace
                                    critic and ordinary routine professor. If the book gets a start and attracts
                                    attention it will do much toward bringing to the front the great land question, and
                                    giving us something real in our politics. Appleton & Co., of 
                                        New York
                                    , have the book in press, and I am anxiously expecting day by day that
                                    they will publish it. They will then send it to the papers and magazines, to whom so
                                    far I have not been at liberty to send any of the little edition I printed.
                        I wished very much to get acquainted with you, and was very much chagrined that I
                                    missed the opportunity, and especially to find that Mrs. Julian had been here while
                                    you were absent in 
                                        Los Angeles
                                     and when we might have paid her some attention. The fault was my own,
                                    and arose from a habit of concentration into which I got while writing that book. to
                                    which it was necessary. But either East or ll'est, I hope to meet you
                                    again. With respects to Mrs. Julian, I am,
                        
                                    Yours very truly,
                                    HENRY GEORGE
                           .
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            TWO INDENTURES OF NEGROES.
            
               ORIGINAL DOCUMENTS.
            [These documents are in possession of Mrs. Huntington, of 
                        Springfield
                    , Iilinois, granddaughter of Jesse K. Dubois, and great-granddaughter of Toussaint
                    Dubois, of 
                        Vincennes
                    . We are indebted to her for permission to publish them.—EDITOR.]
            THIS Indenture made this sixteenth day of December in the year One Thousand Eight Hundred &
                    Eleven, Between Pickard & Jane, his wife, freed people of Colour, of the County of 
                        Shelby
                     & State of 
                        Kentucky
                    , of the one part, and Peter Hansbrough of the County and State aforesaid of the other,
                    Witnesseth
            that the said Pickard and said Jane from perpetual slavery, they having been his slaves and in
                    consideration of what hereafter follows do Indenture and Bind themselves unto the said Peter
                    Hansbrough for and during the term of Thirty Years to serve him with fidelity and subjection at all
                    times without absconding themselves from service, and we the said Pickard & Jane doth make
                    no Exception to render our service or services Into the said Peter Hansbrough or Heirs, altho
                    removed to any of the 
                        United States
                     or Territories thereof, and the said Peter ilansbrough doth covenant & agree to
                    use the said Pickard & Jane with Humanity and to support & clothe the said Pickard
                    & said Jane while performing faithfully their duty as Servants during the above term of
                    thirty years, after which to let the said Segroes go free to all intents & purposes.
            In Witness whereof we Pickard & Jane doth freely and volunrarily set our hands and seals
                    hereunto, the day & year above written.
            
               
                  Test:
                  PICKARD X [Seal].
               
               
                  ENOCH HANSBROUGH.
                   
               
               
                  JOHN LOGAN.
                  JANE X [Seal].
               
               
                  THOMAS BRADSHAW.
                   
               
               
                  SAMUEL SHANNON, JR.
                   
               
               
                  TRUMAN WHITE.
                   
               
               
                  IGNATIUS P. RANDOLPH.
                  PETER HANSBROUGH [Seal].
               
            
            
            This Indenture made this sixth day of November in the year Eighteen Hundred and fifteen, Between
                    Pickard, a free man of colour, of the one part and Toussaint Dubois, Sr., of 
                        Knox County
                    , Indiana Territory, of the other part, Witnesseth, That the said Pickard who is and
                    acknowledges himself to be upwards of Twenty-one years of age, for and in consideration of the sum
                    of Twenty Dollars to him the said Pickard in hand paid, and of Five Hundred dollars good and Lawful
                    money for me, and at my special instance and request, paid Tompson Taylor, agent of Samuel Oldham,
                    and more especially for the consideration of the said Toussaint Dubois, Sr., having set me free and
                    emancipated me, from all bondage whatever Hath, and by these presents doth, binding self, to the
                    said Toussaint Dubois, Sr., as an Indented Servant for and during the full end and Term of Twenty
                    years, from the date of these presents, and that I the said Pickard, will during the said Term,
                    aforesaid, faithfully, and Honestly serve him, the said Dubois, Sr., his heirs, Executors or
                    administrators or assigns, as well within the Indiana Territory as thereout, and that he the said
                    Pickard will at all times give due obedience and attendance, to his or their Lawful business, and
                    not at any time absent himself from his master, without his or their consent during the said Term,
                    and that he will not at any time suffer his property or person to be injured if within his power to
                    prevent it.
            And the said Toussaint Dubois, Sr., for himself his heirs & doth covenant and agree, to and
                    with the said Pickard, that he will at all times, during the said Term of Twenty years, furnish and
                    provide him with competent and sufficient meat, drink, lodging and wearing apparel, as well in
                    sickness as in health, and at the end of the said Term, to give him a freedom suit of clothes.
                    Indiana Territory, ss.:
            In Witness whereof the said Pickard, and the said Toussaint Dubois, has hereunto set their hands and
                    seals. The day and year first above written.
            his
            PICKARD X [Seal].
            mark
            
            Signed, sealed and delivered in the presence of
            GEORGE R. SULLIVAN.
            JAMES E. READ.
            B. PARKE.
            DUBOIS [Seal].
            Indiana Territory, SS:
            Be it remembered that on the day of the date hereof, Personally came before me the undersigned one of
                    the Judges in and over the said territory, the above and foregoing named Pickard, a man of color
                    & acknowledged that he had voluntarily entered into signed and sealed tbe foregoing
                    Indenture for the consideration and for the purposes therein mentioned.
            Given under my hand & seal this Sixth day of November, Eighteen Hundred and fifteen.
            B. PARKE [Seal].
            Recorded in my office, 
                  Vincennes, Knox County
               , November 5, A. D. 1815, Book A, page 269.
            J. D. HAY, Reco. K. C.
         
         
         
            NOTES.
            The portrait of Major-General Anthony Wayne, painted in 1796 by Henry Elouis, has been presented to
                    the Historical Society of Pennsylvania by Airs. Joseph Drexel. An excellent reproduction of it is
                    published as the frontispiece of the July, 1911, number of the Pennsylvania Nagazine of History and
                    Biography.
            The 
                        Laporte County
                     Historical Society has adopted the plan of holding quarterly meetings. at which papers
                    are read bearing on local history. The meetings are held in a room of the Laporte Public Library.
                    William Siles is president for the year 1911.
         
         
            REVIEWS OF BOOKS.
            A MEDICAL HISTORY OF INDIANA.
            [By G. W. H. Kemper, M. D. Illustrated. pp. xxi. 393. American Medical Association Press, 
                        Chicago
                    . Copyright by the Author, 
                        Muncie
                    , Ind., 1911. $2.50.]
            This book contains more reliable biographical information than any book published in recent years
                    relating to Indiana. The author is also entitled to the highest praise for confining his
                    biographical sketches to physicians not now living, thus avoiding the curse of most local histories,
                    the profitable laudatory autobiographical accounts of the men whose vanity makes the history pay the
                    publisher. The title of the work, however, does not indicate precisely its nature. It is rather a
                    history of the medical profession of the State, limited largely to personal sketches. A
                    reviewer's first feeling is one of disappointment that a broader  field was not covered by Dr. Kemper. A medical history of Indiana, to
                    fully justify its name, should deal with the sickness and the health of the people of Indiana. To a
                    layman it seems that there is room and material for an interesting work of this character. The
                    conditions of life in the State have varied greatly during the nearly two centuries of its history;
                    the health of the people, the diseases most prevalent and the generally accepted treatment of them,
                    must also have varied. Facilities for taking care of the sick, statistics of health and disease,
                    sanitary conditions, the presuppositions of the practice of medicine,—these and many
                    other things would form valuable parts of a scientific medical history of the State. But Dr. Kemper
                    is evidently more interested in the doctor than in the patients, and passes them by, For this he may
                    be excused inasmuch as he has chosen to write a history of the doctors of the State rather than the
                    book which the title would seem to call for. But even from his own point of view he is to be
                    criticised for omitting a discussion of hospitals and medical colleges. If the reviewer is not
                    mistaken, some of the most interesting medical history of the State is to be found in the
                    development of these institutions. Only a couple of hospitals and a couple of medical schools seem,
                    in a cursory reading, to be mentioned, and to them altogether only two or three pages are given.
            Dr. Kemper's book, in fact, is practically limited to notes about doctors in Indiana and the
                    practice of medicine as developed in the Indiana State Medical Society (or Association, as it is now
                    styled). The author has been a member of the State Medical Society since 1867, was president in
                    1887, and since 1900 has been chairman of the committee on necrology. To the Transactions of the
                    Indiana State Medical Society for 1901 he contributed a complete index of all the transactions from
                    the beginning of the society in 1849 to 1900. The present volume is a collection of the several
                    articles published in the Journal of the Indiana State Medical Association during the years 1909 and
                    1910 and the earlier months of 1911, and entitled "Sketches of the Medical History of
                    Indiana." It is accordingly more or less fragmentary and unsystematic, and based too
                    exclusively upon notes from  the State Transactions, the Medical
                    Journal and the Journal of the Medical Association.
            Within the boundaries of the field which he chooses to cover Dr. Kemper has done accurate historical
                    work, and a great deal of it. Every page bears evidence of patient efforts to secure information and
                    a careful sifting of evidence to get at the exact truth. A great deal of biographical material and
                    many interesting points in the medical history of the State have thus been brought to light and will
                    be preserved in accurate form. Too great praise can scarcely be given to Dr. Kemper in this respect.
                    His work is so far superior to that of the average local historian that we must not only recognize
                    his reputation as a physician of prominence and skill, but must accord him a high place in the ranks
                    of the historians. He has preserved in permanent form a good history of the medical societies of the
                    State, and has given within one cover and in compact, convenient shape, the titles of the
                    publications of and the most important biographical facts about most of the physicians, not now
                    living, who have practiced their profession within the State of Indiana. There are some interesting
                    collections of cases given, and full information about the achievement which, in the minds of many
                    doctors, stands highest in the medical annals of the State, an operation for gall-stones, the first
                    of its kind in the world, performed in 1867 by Dr. John S. Bobbs, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , which fairly gave him the title of the founder of cholecystotomy. The respect of the
                    non-professional reader for Dr. Bobbs is increased by the fact that the patient made a complete
                    recovery and is still living at the age of seventy-four. The enthusiastic appreciation of Dr.
                    Kemper's work with which Dr. A. W. Brayton introduces it will be confirmed by any one who
                    reads it or has occasion to use it for reference. We have heard a great deal about the literary men
                    and statesmen of Indiana, and we are all glad to know more about the medical men of Indiana, and to
                    find that they have been an able and a worthy set of men.
            C. B. COLEMAN.
         
         
         
            
               
                        NEWTON COUNTY
                    , 1853–1911.
            [By John Ade. Map. 314 pp. The Bobbs-Merrill Co., 
                        Indianapolis
                    . 1911.]
            Mr. Ade is one of the oldest settlers of 
                        Newton county
                    , assisted in its organization, and has occupied a prominent place in its annals. His
                    son, George Ade, has won a national reputation by his writings, but the father turns to literature
                    only after retirement from active life. As he modestly puts it, "Most of the subject matter
                    offered herewith was prepared during 1910 and was written, partly because I had been requested by
                    friends to do so, but principally because I wished to occupy my mind and fill in the time. I am
                    supposed to be too old to engage in actual business, but having been accustomed to constant
                    employment of some kind ever since I was twelve years of age, it naturally goes hard with me to sit
                    around and do nothing." Local historians may well congratulate themselves on Mr.
                    Ade's frame of mind, for his history is very interesting and very much worth while. Many
                    facts and reminiscences are here brought to light which would otherwise have been lost.
            The first chapters give a good account by way of personal experiences of early conditions, while the
                    later ones contain much information in convenient form about the men and the institutions of the
                    county. Lists of county officials, pastors of the churches, and towns and additions to them, make
                    the work valuable for reference. Altogether hfr. Ade has done a good piece of work, and it is to be
                    hoped that this history of 
                        Newton county
                     will have a good circulation.
            C. B. C.
         
         
            RAFINESQUE. LIFE AND BIBLIOGRAPHY.
            [By T. J. Fitzpatrick, hl. S. Illustrated. 239 pp. The Historical Department of 
                        Iowa
                    . 1911.]
            Samuel Rafinesque is one of the most brilliant as well as most picturesque figures in American
                    science. His peculiarities, and the conditions under which he worked, barely prevented him from
                    being one of the great names in the scientific advancement of the world. He is of local interest in
                    Indiana through his  being one of the "boatload of
                    learning" which went down the 
                        Ohio
                     from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to Hendersonville, and then overland to 
                        New Harmony
                    . He did a good deal of botanizing in this State, and was acquainted with the leading
                    scientific lights of the country and v;ith many public men, such as Henry Clay, who were interested
                    in the promotion of science and culture.
            Mr. Fitzpatrick has done a most excellent piece of work in collecting all available information about
                    Rafinesque. The biographical and the bibliographical parts both seem to be exhaustive and well-nigh
                    definitive. It is one of the best books of the kind published in this country. It is well
                    illustrated with a portrait and many facsimiles.
            Of the bits of autobiography included, the reviewer cannot forbear to give the following, in spite of
                    its length, as a description of Rafinesque's field work in this country some seventy-five
                    years ago:
            "Let the practical Botanist who wishes like myself to be a pioneer of science, and to
                    increase the knowledge of plants, be fully prepared to meet dangers of all sorts in the wild groves
                    and mountains of America. The mere fatigue of a pedestrian journey is nothing compared to the gloom
                    of solitary forests, when not a human being is met for many miles, and if met he may be mistrusted;
                    when the food and collections must be carried in your pocket or knapsack from day to day; when the
                    fare is not only scanty but sometimes worse; when you must live on corn bread and salt pork, be
                    burnt and steamed by a hot sun at noon, or drenched by rain, even with an umbrella in hand, as I
                    always had.
            "Mosquitoes and flies often annoy you or suck your blood if you stop or leave a hurried
                    step. Gnats dance before the eyes and often fall in unless you shut them; insects creep on you and
                    into your ears. Ants crawl on you whenever you rest on the ground, wasps will assail you like furies
                    if you touch their nests. But ticks, the worst of all, are unavoidable whenever you go among bushes,
                    and stick to you in crowds, filling your skin with pimples and sores. Spiders, gallineps, horse
                    flies and other obnoxious insects will often beset you, or sorely hurt you. Hateful  snakes are met, and if poisonous are very dangerous, some do not warn
                    you off like the Rattle-snakes.
            "You meet rough or muddy roads to vex you, and blind paths to perplex you, rocks, mountains,
                    and steep ascents. You may often lose your way, and must always have a compass with you as I had.
                    You may be lamed in climbing rocks for plants or break your limbs by a fall. You must cross and wade
                    through brooks, creeks, rivers and swamps. In deep fords or in swift streams you may lose your
                    footing and be drowned. You may be overtaken by a storm, the trees fall around you, the thunder
                    roars and strikes before you. The winds may annoy you, the fire of heaven or of men sets fire to the
                    grass or forest, and you may be surrounded by it, unless you fly for your life.
            "You may travel over a[.] unhealthy region or in a sickly season, you may fall sick on the
                    road and become helpless, unless you be very careful, abstemious and temperate.
            "Such are some of the dangers and troubles of a botanical excursion in the mountains and
                    forests of North America. The sedentary botanists or those who travel in carriages or by steamboats
                    know little of them; those who merely herborize near a city or town do not appreciate the courage of
                    those who brave such dangers to reap the botanical wealth of the land, nor sufficiently value the
                    collections thus made.
            "Yet, although I have felt all those miseries, I have escaped some to which others are
                    liable. I have never been compelled to sleep at night on the grounds, but have always found a
                    shelter. I have never been actually starved, nor assailed by snakes or wild beasts, nor robbed, nor
                    drowned, nor suddenly unwell. Temperance and the disuse of tobacco have partly availed me, and
                    always kept me in health" [pp. 57–58].
            C. B. C.
         
         
            INDIANAPOLIS AND THE CIVIL WAR.
            [By John H. Holliday. Paper covers. 70 pp. Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. IV, No. 9. 
                        Indianapolis
                    .]
            This monograph is of value not only to local history, but to national as well. It gives an
                    authoritative account of the course of the war as viewed from an important, and in some respects  typical, Northern center, and shows with rare insight and
                    careful research the effects of the war upon a city which the tide of battle never reached, but
                    which was the seat of operations of one of the most active war governors, a great war market, a camp
                    for Northern soldiers and for Southern prisoners. In the study of the French Revolution the best
                    work now being done consists in pointing out the course of the revolution and the economic and
                    social life of the people in the provinces and towns outside of 
                        Paris
                    . An enormous amount of material has thus been accumulated which enables us to see the
                    revolution in a new and truer light. Something of this sort is now being done in this country for
                    our Civil War. Without invidious comparisons, it is only fair to say that Mr. Holliday's
                    monograph is the best work of the kind known to the reviewer in any part of the country. He has a
                    personal knowledge of the subject, as he was engaged in newspaper work in 
                        Indianapolis
                     during the war. To this he has added a wide and penetrating reading of apparently all
                    the sources of information bearing on his theme. He goes into all phases of life in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and, moreover, does not merely pile up isolated items of information, but shows cause
                    and effect, and, withal, gives us a vivid picture of the city in the exciting days of the war. Any
                    historian of the war as a whole will find here a great deal of material and sound judgment which
                    cannot but influence his own conclusions. In quality and style it ranks with Mr. Rhodes'
                    History of the 
                        United States
                     from 1850 to 1877 as a masterpiece in the field covered.
            As a contribution to local history Mr. Holliday's pages will be read with delight by all who
                    are interested in their city and in bygone days. There is in them a delicious humor, never
                    obtrusive, always apt. Large affairs and great events are given worthy treatment, but the routine of
                    daily life and the fortunes of the average man are never lost sight of. There are five chapters: The
                    Settlement and Its Life, Religion and Politics, The First Year of the Struggle, Rapidly Moving
                    Events (principally 1862), The Bitterness and Magnitude of Conflict. All of these are not only a
                    storehouse of information, but exceedingly interesting as well. Detailed criticism and extended
                    comment cannot be given  here. Part of the material appeared in
                    the chapter of J. P. Dunn's History of 
                        Greater Indianapolis
                     which Mr. Holliday contributed. Much of it appears here for the first time.
            The summary of the influence of the war given on pages 594 and 595 is of interest. "The war
                    was over, but its grim era closed upon a new 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The quiet town, with its simple life, was gone forever, and in its place was the
                    bustling city, with new ideas, new aspirations, new ways. Much more than half the population were
                    newcomers. As it had changed materially, it had changed in other respects. Its life was different.
                    The war had brought sorrow to many households and broken up many. * *
                    * The alteration in circumstances made a difference, for many large fortunes had been
                    made and many families had been impoverished or had gained nothing. There was more luxurious living
                    and ostentation. The inevitable demoralization of war had to be reckoned with, and both morality and
                    relib'-ion were affected. Hundreds of young men had become addicted to intemperance and the
                    general moral tone had been lowered. Extravagances had increased in many things and was driving out
                    the former simplicity. Change was over all."
            C. B. C.
         
         
            LINCOLN'S BODYGUARD.
            [By Robert W. McBride. Paper covers. 39 pp. Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. V, No. 1. 
                        Indianapolis
                    . 1911.]
            Judge McBride served from December, 1863, to the end of the war in the "Union Light Guard,
                    otherwise known as the Seventh Independent Company of 
                        Ohio
                     Volunteer Cavalry," organized by Governor David Tod. This company served as
                    the bodyguard of President Lincoln. Its members had therefore an unusual opportunity of observing
                    the President in his public appearances and conditions in 
                        Washington
                     during the war. Judge McBride was corporal and company clerk, so that he was the
                    logical man to prepare this memorial of the organization. His account. "with some personal
                    recollections of Abraham Lincoln," was privately printed for distribution among the members
                    of the company. It  now appears as one of the Indiana Historical
                    Society publications.
            One of Judge NcBride's observations is of special interest. After showing the situation of
                    buildings and trees around the White House and the unguarded appearances of the President, he says:
                    "It can be seen how easy it n-ould have been for an assassin to have killed him while he
                    was on one of these solitary visits to the War Department, and how little actual protection was
                    given him by the guards as they were posted. The evidence on the trial of the conspirators showed
                    that they knew of his habit of visiting the War Department, and that they had at one time planned to
                    abduct him. by seizing him on a dark night, while in the shadows of the park, lifting him oyer the
                    brick wall that bordered the south side of the pathway, and hurrying him across the Treasury Park to
                    a vacant house belonging to a rebel sympathizer, where he could be kept concealed in the cellar
                    until he could be taken across the Potomac in a boat. The plan was practicable, and I have never
                    understood why it was abandoned."
            While the pamphlet does not bear directly upon Indiana history, its value and interest are such that
                    it well deserves a place in our historical publications.
            Members of the Indiana Historical Society may perhaps note that with Mr. Holliday's "
                        Indianapolis
                     and the Civil War," Vol. IV of the publications is closed and that Vol. V
                    begins with Judge McBride's sketch of Lincoln's Bodyguard.
            C. B. C.
         
      
   
