
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 8, Issue 1, pages 1-48. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:8+issue:1+year:1912&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            THE INDIANA CENTENNIAL, 1916.
            
               JAMES ALBERT WOODBURN Professor of American History and Politics, Indiana
                        University.
            [This paper was prepared for the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Literary Club and was read before that body January 8, 1912. It was read later before
                    the Society of the Colonial Dames for Indiana, and before the History Club of Indiana University. It
                    is published here in the hope of reaching the larger public that may be interested in the
                    approaching Indiana Centennial.]
            IN a little over four years Indiana will be celebrating the hundredth anniversary of her birth. The
                    birthday of the State is December 11, 1816. It was then that Indiana passed from her territorial
                    condition into the sisterhood of States. She became the nineteenth State of the Union, and the sixth
                    to be admitted after the adoption of the Constitution. When Indiana comes to set her house in order
                    for the celebration of her one hundredth natal anniversary, she will, without much doubt, have a
                    population of three millions,—about the population of the thirteen United Colonies, when
                    they declared that they were, "and of a right ought to be, free and independent
                    states." A hundred years ago, by the census of 1810, Indiana had a population of about
                    24,000. At the time of her admission in 1816 her population had risen, according to estimate, to
                    65,000, and four years later, by the census of 1820, she had a population of 147,000 souls. In
                    another ten years that population had more than doubled. It was doubled again in another ten years,
                    and in the two decades following 1840 the population of the State was again doubled, standing at the
                    opening of the Civil War at 1,360,000 persons,—approximately at one half of what our
                    population is to-day.
            The coming of that population to Indiana as a part of the great 
                    movement toward the West is one of the most significant chapters in American history. It was the
                    upbuilding of commonwealths from the wilderness. The men who lived in Indiana for forty years prior
                    to the Civil War witnessed a wonderful transformation. The pen of the historian has not yet
                    adequately pictured it. It has been pictured in parts, as in Judge Howe's notable sketch of
                    the establishment of this capital in the wilderness, and the State and local historical societies
                    have done something to preserve the historical materials of that day. The opening pages of Mr.
                    Holliday's "
                        Indianapolis
                     in the Civil War" present to us some most interesting glimpses of the
                    primitive days of nearly one hundred years ago in Indiana, and especially of this community, when
                    Coe and Blake and Ray and Fletcher, and others, were, in their diligent and public-spirited way,
                    establishing the new city of Indiana, when the sale of town lots within the mile square laid off
                    from what was called "the donation" furnished the revenue for building your Court
                    House and the State House. Can the imagination really recall the little pioneer settlement of five
                    hundred persons here in 1824?
            It is doubtful if posterity can ever be made to visualize, or in any true sense vividly to comprehend
                    the wondrous change that was wrought within our Hoosier habitation in that fresh and productive
                    generation. The men living here just before the sixties whose memories easily spanned these first
                    forty years of Statehood, found it difficult then to impress upon the rising generation the change
                    that their eyes had witnessed and which their own hands had helped to bring to pass. They were
                    youthful grandfathers who had hardly reached their three score years. yet their tales of the past
                    would seem like flights of the imagination from old men who were seeing visions, did we not know how
                    hard and recent were the facts of their pioneer life which they revealed. Nathaniel Bolton, Mr.
                    Brown's predecessor in the State Library of sixty years ago, thought it a marvelous thing
                    in 1853 that a man might start from 
                        Lafayette
                     early in the morning, stop two hours for dinner at 
                        Indianapolis
                     and still be in 
                        Cincinnati
                     the same evening in reasonable time for supper and bed. Bolton himself, speaking at a
                    time when he was still a young man of  forty-eight, recalled his
                    experience of passing over the ground where 
                  Columbus, Ohio
               , now stands
                    when there was but a single solitary log cabin on the banks of the Scioto at that place. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Gazette, of which Bolton was the early editor and publisher, brought out President
                    Monroe's message in what was then deemed quick time; he had made an enterprising western
                    "scoop" by bringing out the President's message in February only two months after it was submitted to Congress in December. That was but a few
                    years after the cabins of Pogue and the McCormicks had been erected on Pogue's run and Fall
                    creek. Bolton had witnessed the location of this capital city in the "New
                    Purchase," when in 1820 Hunt, Connor, Tipton, Emerson, Durham, and others, selected the
                    site of this primitive settlement on land so lately acquired from the Indians. That was six years
                    before a circuit court was held in 
                        Marion county
                    , in the days when grand juries sat on a log to hold their inquisitions; when
                    Anderson-town, lately the seat of government of the 
                        Delaware
                     nation, was a deserted Indian village; when the nearest post office was 
                        Connersville
                    , sixty miles away; when William Conner, the Indian trader, four miles south of 
                        Noblesville
                    , first learned what it meant to have a government mail brought into his neighborhood;
                    when, as in 1822, a 
                        United States
                     mail was first established in this settlement, and when such rapid progress followed
                    that in a short time, as Bolton tells it, "we had a mail from the East every two weeks
                    unless high water prevented." These things were told by a man just entering upon middle
                    life, while looking back over a brief period of about thirty years. He spoke at a time when Indiana
                    had risen from a newly civilized wilderness to be the fourth State in the Union, while ten years
                    later the commonwealth was able to furnish more than 200,000 fighting men in the war for the defense
                    of the Union. Does it not sound like a grandfather's tale of impossible or exaggerated
                    things? Yet we know it to be only what has become commonplace narration of the growth of one of
                    these western States. I use Bolton and his narrative of sixty years ago only as an illustration to
                    remind us of a fading, if not a faded, past.
            Within the midst of this rising tide of new and expanding life 
                    toward the West, which seemed so recent to Bolton's eyes but is so remote to ours, came the
                    applications of steam and electricity to modern life; and one needs but little reflection to enable
                    him to recall the great domestic, commercial and industrial revolution wrought in the progress and
                    life of the people by these powerful agencies. Cheap lands were bringing their thousands, but these
                    discoveries and advances were destined to bring their tens of thousands. Our young State was then
                    virgin soil, and while our good mother may continue for ages to come to bear children and to receive
                    them hospitably from foreign parts to her firesides and her homes, it is quite certain that it can
                    never happen again that her progeny will increase with such giant strides and in such proportions as
                    was witnessed in those wonderful forty years prior to the Civil War.
            The Indianians who were but little past middle age in 1860, could recall not only these strange and
                    curious beginnings, but also the denials, the hardships and sufferings, not to say the tragedies, of
                    life, in the pioneer Indiana settlements. Just one hundred years ago this year occurred the massacre
                    in 
                        Pigeon Roost
                     Settlement, not far from the early home of the Englishes in 
                        Scott county
                    . When Bingham and Doughty of this city published John B. Dillon's well-known
                    History of Indiana in 1859, Zebulun Collings, a survivor of the massacre, was still alive, from
                    whose lips the historian had some account of the conditions in the country at the time of the
                    tragedy. I cannot here recount the story of these trials. I merely refer to them to indicate by what
                    hardships the soldiers of civilization were founding our young comonwealth, and how recent these
                    events must have seemed to the older men when the "boys of '61" were
                    entering upon their struggle for the Union.
            It is hard for those to realize whose memories go back so easily to the days of 
                        Sumter
                     and 
                        Shiloh
                     that we are standing today farther removed by a lustrum of years from the beginning of
                    that great civil conflict than were the founders of the commonwealth who sat in 1816 with Jennings,
                    Holman, McCarty, Noble, Maxwell and others, in our first Constitutional Convention under the
                    historic elm at 
                        Corydon
                    . But it is so. That  stretch of years when the State
                    was in the making seems so large a part of our State growth and life that these later years, within
                    the memory of so many men now living, seem hardly yet to be a fit subject for the treatment of
                    history. But we have only to think for a moment to realize that the Indiana of 1912 is as greatly
                    different from that of 1860, as was the Indiana of Morton and Lane from that of Governor Jennings or
                    the elder Harrison. True, our population has not increased with such proportionate strides since
                    then; but impelled by the inventive and industrial progress of the world of which we are a part, the
                    progress and change in Indiana within these fifty years have been more marked, more in contrast with
                    the past, than any that men had witnessed in all the years that had gone before. This age of
                    electricity, the growth of our cities, the trolley car and the traction lines, the telephone and the
                    automobile—these would have been as startling anticipations to the mind and eye of Joseph
                    A. Wright or Robert Dale Owen, as a single day's railway journey from 
                        Chicago
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                     to the expectation of the men of 1816. In material wealth, in industry, in comforts and
                    modes of living, in travel, in conveniences of life whether in city or country, in methods of
                    business, in education, literature, or art—in everything that goes to make up civilized
                    life, the progress of the last half century has been much more remarkable than that of the half
                    century before. Within this period, as is obvious on a moment's reflection, are other
                    chapters of the State's unwritten history. Put these two half centuries of the
                    State's life together and have we not a story of a State and of a people, of their times,
                    their customs, their homes, their activities, their progress, and their changes, well worthy of a
                    centennial celebration?
            It is not my purpose to outline this history in the least, or to eulogize it, or to attempt to
                    portray it in any way. It is rather my purpose to make a brief plea for its recognition; to recall
                    to mind the duty that the State owes to its history, and to suggest that those who can in any way
                    reach the public mind should do what they can to lead the people of Indiana to lay upon the altar of
                    the State a centennial memorial worthy of her historic past.
            We respect the past of Indiana, and we should teach our children 
                    to know and respect it. If we cannot do that, there is in store for us but little of hope for the
                    future. It was Burke who said that the people "who never look backward to their ancestry
                    will never look forward to their posterity." A century of Indiana will soon be told, and
                    the State now faces the decision as to how the first hundred years of its life shall be celebrated.
                    How can Indiana best recall to the mind of her people these hundred years? How can her people pay a
                    proper tribute to their past? What suitable memorial can the people erect that will proclaim to the
                    present and tell to posterity what they choose to do in honor of the State?
            In the first place, let us insist that when we celebrate our centennial we shall do it in a spirit of
                    becoming modesty. We need no national exposition with aid from the national treasury. While we may
                    wish to welcome anybody in the wide world, especially any former child of Indiana, who may wish to
                    come for his entertainment or edification to what we may have to offer, let us make our celebration
                    a home affair, that is to say, a domestic and family concern. It is for Indiana that we wish to
                    celebrate. And when we come to pay our tribute to Indiana, to celebrate her virtues or sound her
                    praises, let it be done without cultivating or encouraging the spirit of boastful jingoism. Whatever
                    our fathers may have been—and perhaps distance lends enchantment to their ways and
                    works—we are only, after all, plain and common folks—very much like our
                    neighbors on all sides of us. The Hoosier in these recent years is in danger of becoming much puffed
                    up with foolish vanity and conceit. He is frequently hearing, and I fear he is too much indulging
                    himself in saying, too many complimentary things about this fair Indiana land and its people. The
                    good old 
                        Quaker
                     woman was truly pious when she said that she had no religion to boast of. If Indiana
                    has made meritorious attainments, let them be set forth in due modesty and without pretense. They
                    will speak for themselves. And let us recognize that we, at least, have done all too little for our
                    worthy State; and that in what we have and are in Indiana we are but the products and the
                    beneficiaries of the past. It is this record of the past, not anything in ourselves that  we are to celebrate. Who is there in the State who would not wish to
                    see this history better known and worthily commemorated?
            This, we may be sure, can be well done without any lavish or extravagant expenditure and display. We
                    may spend thousands on buildings for show, in which to make an exhibition of our growth and
                    prosperity in material wealth,—to set forth to the world the products and possibilities
                    of Indiana in her fields, her mines, her workshops, her factories, and her advances in the arts and
                    sciences. But the buildings erected for this purpose one year would likely be demolished the next,
                    and the work and money expended would bring us in tangible form only that which is transient and
                    evanescent. It would, however, certainly be fitting and proper that in 1916 Indiana should offer to
                    her people and to all who wish to come and see, an exposition of her resources, as evidence of her
                    progress and attainment,—a Great State Fair extended, that would set forth fully the
                    developed life and energies and products of the State. We might well invite our people and their
                    friends to come to a great holiday fest,—a harvest time of ingathering
                    and rejoicing, in which the sons of the State, from city and country, may come bringing their
                    sheaves of labor, of production and conquest, in friendly and generous rivalry for beautiful display
                    and exposition. We might have a great State Olympic, with entertainments, games,
                    sports, athletic contests in which the high schools and colleges and the baseball leagues and
                    athletic clubs of the State could participate and compete. That year will not be merely a solemn
                    time for memory and for tears. It should be a gala day for gladness and joy. But after it is over,
                    what shall we leave behind to remind posterity of our appreciation of our natal day of exultation
                    and cheer? Certainly with such an exposition and celebration the State should erect a permanent and
                    enduring memorial,—a monument that will not only commemorate the century that has gone,
                    but one that will stand for the centuries to come. That monument may express not only the idealism
                    of the State, not only the honor and love that we bear toward those who have labored and have made
                    it possible for us to enter into the fruits of their labor, but it may  represent also a creditable utilitarian sense and give to the coming
                    children of the State an offering that will prove to them of incalculable use and value.
            At the last meeting of the General Assembly of the State a Centennial Commission was created. The
                    members of this commission have been appointed, and, as I understand, they have had two meetings
                    with the Park Board of 
                        Indianapolis
                     with a view to finding a common basis for cooperative action in the purchase of ground
                    for public purposes, having in mind a suitable centennial memorial for 1916. The commission is
                    instructed to inquire into the cost of a suitable site for a memorial building, approve plans, and
                    report to the next General Assembly. It is understood that the commission is ready to recommend,
                    what had already been proposed, the erection by the State of a beautiful and commodious State
                    Library and Historical Building, which may be used, in part, also, for a museum and for educational
                    purposes. It may be that out of these proposals and beginnings there may also be realized the
                    ambitious Plaza scheme, by the generous cooperation of city and State. Such a plan for civic beauty
                    and adornment would not be merely for selfish gain nor local advantage, but for the worthy adornment
                    of the capital and for the honor of the State. Millions are spent by the nation on the
                    beautification of 
                        Washington
                    , and the time will come when that "city of magnificent distances"
                    will be one of the finest capitals in the world. No American will begrudge the large expenditures at
                    the national capital for the proposed Lincoln Memorial, and the throngs of visitors to 
                        Washington
                     are constantly made to rejoice when they see what is being made out of a city which, to
                    the eyes of Abigail Adams, the first lady of the White House, was but a crude settlement of country
                    taverns in the woods of 
                        Maryland
                     by the swamps of the Potomac.
            I think it was Emerson who said, referring to the acquisition of 
                        Texas
                    , that an enterprise may seem right or wrong according to whether one looks at it by the
                    years or by the centuries. If we look upon these centennial proposals from the point of view only of
                    the next few years, and consider chiefly the effect they may have on the pocket nerve or the tax
                    rate, we may not be  disposed readily to accede to large plans and
                    obligations. But if we think rather of what this State is destined to be in the generations to come;
                    if we think of our children and of what they will think of us and our enterprise, of our ideals and
                    visions a century, or two centuries, after we are dead and gone, then the merit of a centennial
                    proposal assumes another aspect. We ought not to be deterred by the criticisms of the ungenerous,
                    the suspicions of the envious, or the petty fears and objections of the pusillanimous. The people of
                    Indiana are not a mean and impecunious people, and they will wish to do what will most reflect honor
                    upon the State, without waste, without jealousy, and without local exploitation.
            But whether this more ambitious and expensive scheme can be realized or not, there is one simple,
                    useful and noble memorial that the State may easily prepare to dedicate in honor of her hundredth
                    anniversary in 1916. That is the State Library and Historical Building, which the commission will
                    recommend. Everything is to be said in favor of this enterprise, and, so far as I know, nothing is
                    to be said against it; and the commission deserves to have behind it in its report and proposal to
                    this end the public sentiment in every part of the State for this public-spirited endeavor.
            It may not be very gracious to say that a part of this memorial endeavor will be nothing more than a
                    response to a public necessity, the satisfying of a legitimate demand that has been known for years,
                    and which every passing year makes more and more insistent. But it will by no means detract from the
                    fine quality of the memorial act to know that something useful is being done and that a real need of
                    the State is being satisfied. I refer to the insistent needs of the State Library. One has but to
                    visit the cramped and crowded quarters where Mr. Brown and Mr. Lapp and their co-laborers are doing
                    their important work for Indiana, to realize the real call that exists for the action of the State.
                    When one thinks of the commodious quarters which a large and growing library may reasonably expect,
                    and when one sees the provision that has been made for their libraries and related institutions by
                    other States, he has forced upon him the utter inadequacy  of the
                    provision that Indiana has made. The State House has no room for a library. Here is a competent and
                    zealous force working under almost impossible conditions,—certainly impossible if they
                    are ever to accomplish what they see is imperative for library protection, library use and library
                    growth. There is no reading room worthy of the name, to which the public can resort. The cataloguing
                    department has overflowed from its retired quarters into the reading room spaces, where it is
                    constantly subject to the interruptions of the public. The Legislative Librarian and his staff,
                    whose growing work is so vital to the welfare of the State, are crowded in a little corner of the
                    stacks less than twenty feet by fifteen, where working desk room—veritable elbow
                    room—is at a growing premium. The stacks themselves have reached their limit. There is no
                    further room for general books and no further room for State documents. There is no room for
                    newspapers, and these records of the world's transient life are being literally piled in
                    disorder and en masse in the basement, inaccessible, unattainable and unusable. Valuable archives
                    are scattered in the basement in the same way, uncared for and unarranged. Here are valuable
                    historical materials,—maps, land records, reports of State commissions and State boards,
                    court papers, committee reports, Governors' letters and other State papers,—all
                    in a condition about as useful as if they were not in existence, except for the possibilities within
                    them if the State will but come to the rescue of its own. What will it mean for the preservation of
                    such material if the State will provide for it an ample fireproof building, with proper provision
                    for maintenance and future expansion? There are opportunities for the State to receive in its
                    library for permanent preservation and for the easy use of those who will care for and appreciate
                    them, assignments, bequests, gifts and deposits of letters, papers, documents and valuable savings
                    that are constantly becoming more and more valuable as the years go by. But if we have no house in
                    which we may properly store such things, no shelves and alcoves in which they may be arranged and
                    made accessible, there can be but little inducement for the public-spirited citizen to consign to
                    the custody of the State the literary and historical inheritances  and savings of his family. The library has, indeed, from its meager resources, acquired some
                    valuable collections, which it has been able to do sometimes by appeals to local and patriotic
                    pride, sometimes by diplomacy, sometimes by cultivated silence and well-directed stealth, from fear
                    that higher and more affluent bidders from other States will hear of the valuable
                    "finds" and come with an offer that will enable them to carry them off to other
                    parts. We know exactly how such things have occurred in the past. I confess from personal experience
                    that it brings to an Indianian a feeling of deep chagrin when he sees in the State Historical
                    Library in 
                        Wisconsin
                     so much more Indiana material than can be found anywhere in Indiana itself, all sent
                    out of the State, and much to other places as well, because we have not known enough, or cared
                    enough for our history, or have not been willing to pay enough, to have and to hold our own and to
                    provide decently for it.
            Very recently, in the year just past, a file of the 
                        Madison
                     Courier covering a period of more than sixty years, from 1837 to 1900, whose value to
                    the history of the State cannot be estimated in money, all but escaped us, and if Governor Marshall
                    had not helped out from his emergency fund the librarian would not have had sufficient money at hand
                    to save this valuable collection to the State. It would have gone to 
                        Wisconsin
                    , or 
                        Chicago
                    , or 
                        Illinois
                    , where they have libraries well supplied with funds and where they have a care for such
                    things, and have vigilant collectors on the lookout for them. Fortunately, we are now conserving
                    these historical sources much better than in the past. We have a public sentiment that demands it,
                    and officers and agents whose deep concern it is. Our people are not now ready as once it seemed
                    they were, to die as the mule dieth, "without pride of ancestry or hope of
                    posterity." Years ago I heard the historian of Indiana, Mr. J. P. Dunn, tell the story of
                    that awful catastrophe, of that inestimable loss and destruction which came from what seems
                    unforgivable neglect and stupidity. I refer to the irreparable injury that was perpetrated when the
                    State moved from its old home into the new, and when the janitor of the old State House carted off
                    the old records, and reports and papers,  of such precious value
                    to history, and sold them for junk at a few cents a pound! It seems an unspeakable, an unbelievable
                    tragedy. It appears that there was no provision for their keeping, no one in charge with
                    intelligence enough to care, no librarian, or Secretary of State, or archivist, or custodian of
                    precious papers,—no one at hand to come to the rescue of that which was so valuable to
                    the history of the State. We cannot fairly be held to answer for that fatal folly, but is it not
                    high time that the children of this generation shall make what amends they can for the errors of the
                    past?
            And this all reminds us of another reason for the State's Centennial Memorial
                    Building,—that the State Historical Society may have a suitable home. Its natural home is
                    in a house of the State,—in a worthy building erected by the commonwealth, with quarters
                    adapted to historical savings, historical workers, historical purposes and uses. The society has
                    done much for the State, more, I fear, than the great body of her citizens will ever readily
                    appreciate or understand. But the State has left the society absolutely without a place to lay its
                    head, without even a shelter from the elements. It has not even a storeroom where its members may
                    place for safety the historical materials which they may have collected or produced. Look again at 
                        Wisconsin
                    ! What is the greatest thing in that vigorous and progressive State? I answer without
                    hesitation that, next to her university, it is her noble library building given to her State
                    Historical Society. It cost much less than a million,—a little over $600,000,
                    not counting its expansions, and that was given, not for its university, not for its State library,
                    but for its State Historical Society, and that too by a State not so rich by far either in history
                    or in money as this good State of Indiana,—for Indiana was more than thirty years old
                    when 
                        Wisconsin
                     was born, and there has not been a decade since a census was taken when her wealth has
                    not outrun that of her sister State.
            Is there, then, any finer thing that Indiana can do to celebrate the one hundredth anniversary of her
                    birth, anything that would redound more to her lasting honor, than to have erected by 1916 a
                    beautiful and worthy monument in the shape of a useful building 
                    ample for years to come, to be dedicated to her library, to her learning and to her history? There
                    she could collect and preserve the worthy leavings of her past,—in science, in art, in
                    literature, in invention, in biography,—in whatever tends to make the State historic and
                    immortal.
            It is a patriotic service and a patriotic duty. This Indiana land is ours, not to fight for, except
                    in rarest and direst need, but to build for and to perpetuate. Governor Jennings said ninety-five
                    years ago this month, at the second session of the Legislature in 1817: "The commencement
                    of a State Library forms a subject of too much interest not to meet your attention … I
                    recommend to your consideration the propriety of requiring by law a percent. on the proceeds of the
                    sale of town lots to be paid for the support of schools and the establishment of libraries
                    therein." Take the people of Indiana, up one side and down the other, consider men of all
                    occupations, of all races, ages, parties and creeds, there is nothing they believe in more
                    profoundly, no cause they will give themselves to more devotedly and unsparingly than the cause of
                    education. No other appeal strikes quite so near their homes and their hearts. The most efficient
                    and abiding instrument of education is the library. Without the book and the treasured learning of
                    the past the teacher and the school will grope in darkness. These libraries, as Jennings had in
                    mind, should be in every community in the State. But there is need, too, for a strong, central,
                    directing library, lending its aid and its materials to all the others, encouraging new centers,
                    inciting to growth, with its arms and branches reaching to the remotest hamlet and village in the
                    State. Is there any nobler cause than this State-wide public education to which our monument can be
                    dedicated? In the structure itself, in the spirit of love and beauty which it will represent, in the
                    cause of light and learning to which it will be devoted, the monument will be exactly the kind above
                    all others in which the citizenship of the State will find the most satisfaction, the greatest
                    pride, the keenest delight.
            When one visits 
                        Washington City
                    , he sees a city of monuments,—monuments varying in size from that towering
                    shaft of stone dedicated to the Father of his Country, to the colossal or  life-size busts that stand in the motley, unseemly and heterogeneous
                    collection in Statuary Hall. That capital city is still to be beautified, let us hope, by greater
                    and richer collections and creations. But to my mind the noblest monument that stands in that city
                    to-day, or that is likely to stand in the years to come, is the Library of Congress. Indiana,
                    through Senator Voorhees, bore no mean part in its upbuilding. It is the most beautiful, the
                    loveliest to behold of all the public buildings in that worthy capital. It will not only be a thing
                    of beauty and a joy forever to those merely who behold its physical beauty inside and out, but to
                    those who are privileged to use it (as many shall who may never be permitted to look upon its form),
                    that joy will be increased, with some thirty, with some sixty, with some a hundred fold. No American
                    need ever be ashamed, as I was reminded by a scholar in 
                        Oxford
                    , to take his foreign visitor to that great library, if he can truthfully say that
                    within the walls of that noble building and beneath its dome, the American has expressed his deep
                    veneration and respect for the ideals and aspirations which he wishes his country to represent.
            Can we not erect here in Indiana a similar monument? It need not be on such an extensive or expensive
                    scale, but it should conform to such generous plans and ideals as will make it, like that at 
                        Washington
                     to the nation, an everlasting honor to the State and such as will bring to us the
                    thanks and approval of the generations that are to come.
            Patriotism has its inception largely in reverence for historic achievements and
                    beginnings,—in respect for the progress of the past. As the fathers did for our sakes, so
                    may we do for others. The people who are not moved by that impulse, with a desire to promote the
                    "everlasting better" in the life of the State, are not worthy of its name or the
                    àgis of its care and protection. May the generations that come after us profit by our
                    example, and to that end let us see to it that the Pilgrim Fathers and Mothers of the West, men and
                    women of the spirit of venture and conquest, who came to this western world nearly a century ago,
                    may have at our hands an honorable recognition and memorial.
         
         
         
            GRAVES OF REVOLUTIONARY SOLDIERS.
            [Located by the Daughters of the American Revolution.]
            BENJAMIN BUCKMAN—MASSACHUSETTS.
            Benjamin Buckman was born in 
                        Hadley
                    , 
                        Massachusetts
                    , April 16, 1759, and died in 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana, October 1, 1843. His second wife's name was Eunice Judd. He was
                    placed on the pension roll of 
                        Floyd county
                     in 1818 for service of sergeant in 
                        Massachusetts
                     line. His remains were subsequently removed to 
                        New Albany
                    , and the following inscription is on his tombstone:
            "In memory of Benjamin Buckman, a Revolutionary Soldier, who was born in 
                        Hadley
                    , Mass., April 16, 1759. Died October 1, 1843."
            Grave located by Piankeshaw Chapter, 
                        New Albany
                    .
            JACOB KESLER—PENNSYLVANIA.
            Jacob Kesler was born in 1757 and died in 1843, and is buried in 
                        Tippecanoe county
                    , Indiana. Upon his tombstone is the inscription, "A Soldier of the
                    Revolution." He gave four different enlistments from 
                        York county
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and was taken prisoner at the battle of Long Island. He was granted a pension in 1832.
            JONATHAN JAQUESS—NEW JERSEY.
            Jonathan Jaquess was born in 
                        Middlesex county
                    , 
                        New Jersey
                    , April 28, 1753, and died in 
                        Posey county
                    , Indiana, in 1843. He served in the Revolutionary War in the Second 
                        New Jersey
                     Regiment, Light Dragoons, commanded by Colonel Skeldon. He was at the battles of Long
                    Island, King's Bridge and White Plains. He married Rebecca Frazier in 1762 and settled in
                    Indiana in 1815. A monument marks his grave, inscribed: "Here lies a patriot who faithfully
                    served his country five years both by land and sea." He owned an estate of 1200 acres, on
                    which he is buried.
            
            JOHN LEGORE—PENNSYLVANIA.
            John Legore was born in 1755, lived in 
                        Maryland
                     during the Revolutionary War, and died July 7, 1829. He enlisted April 1, 1776, as
                    private in the Fourth Continental Dragoons and served until 1782, under Colonel Moylan, Captain
                    Zebulon Pike's company. Was in the battles of White Plains and Brandywine. In 1828 this
                    soldier was living in 
                        Marion county
                    , Indiana. Buried in 
                        Rush county
                    . His name is on the pension list of April 2, 1819.
            JOHN REILEY—PENNSYLVANIA.
            John Reiley was born in 
                        Cecil county
                    , 
                        Maryland
                    , December 9, 1751, and died in 
                        Richmond
                     township, 
                        Rush county
                    , Indiana, December 22, 1845. At an early age he removed with his father to 
                        Chester county
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . He was in Lord Dinsmore's expedition against the Indians in 1774. His first
                    enlistment in the Revolutionary War was for six months, and then he re-enlisted in the regular
                    service for three years. He was in the battle of Bound-brook, and in another near 
                        Morristown
                    , 
                        New Jersey
                    . He was one of Morgan's selected corps of riflemen, was in the battle of
                    Saratoga and at the taking of Burgoyne. After the Revolutionary War he served in the Indian
                    campaigns in the Northwest, and was with General Harmer when he was defeated by the Indians in 1790.
                    (This John Reiley should not be confused with the John Riley, pensioner, buried in 
                        Orange county
                    , who also served from 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .)
            ENOS DAVIS—MARYLAND.
            Enos Davis is buried in what is known as the "Davis burying-ground," three miles
                    south of 
                        Covington
                    . His grave is marked by a stone or slab on which is inscribed, "A
                    Revolutionary Soldier." He was born in 1761, and died in 1841. Was married in 1790. His son
                    James was living in 
                        Fountain county
                     in 1826, and the pension record of Enos Davis states that he was living in 
                        Fountain county
                     in 1829. Enos Davis enlisted July 5, 1778, as private in Captain Henry Gates's
                    company, Maryland Militia, and was discharged December, 1779.
            
            GABRIEL POINDEXTER—VIRGINIA.
            Gabriel Poindexter was born in 
                        Louisa county
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    , 1758, and died in 
                        Floyd county
                    , Indiana, in 1831, and is buried at Floyd's Knobs. Was a private in the 
                        Virginia
                     line. His wife was Mary Swift.
            Located by Piankeshaw Chapter, 
                        New Albany
                    .
            JOHN RILEY—PENNSYLVANIA.
            John Riley was born in 
                  Carlisle, Pennsylvania
               , in 1752, and died in 
                        Paoli
                    , 
                        Orange county
                    , Indiana. He was placed on the pension roll while a resident of 
                        Orange county
                    , in 1818. His wife was Mary McIlvaine. He was buried in Paoli Cemetery.
            SAMUEL SMITH—NEW YORK.
            Samuel Smith enlisted as private in 1776 under Captain Thomas Hicks, and in 1779 under Captain
                    Elsworth. He applied for a pension in 1831 at the age of seventy-one, and it was allowed for
                    eighteen months actual service as private in the 
                        New York
                     line. He lived in 
                        Albany county
                    , 
                        New York
                    , until 1823, when he removed to Indiana. He died and is buried at 
                        Brewersville
                    , 
                        Jennings county
                    . His wife was Elizabeth Peters.
            LEVI WESTON—MASSACHUSETTS.
            Levi Weston was born at 
                        Duxbury
                    , 
                        Massachusetts
                    , May 27, 1753. died at 
                        Greensburg
                    , Indiana, June 9, 1852; married Olive Locke, who was born May 1, 1733, died March 5,
                    1826, at 
                  Oxford, Ohio
               , and is buried on the old farm. There are people still living in 
                        Greensburg
                     (1912) who remember Levi Weston. His great age and mental condition were remarkable. He
                    is buried in South Park Cemetery, 
                  Greensburg,
                            Decatur
                county. His headstone, in a good state of
                    preservation, gives the fact that he was a Revolutionary soldier.
            Located by Lone Tree Chapter, 
                        Greensburg
                    .
            
            ISAAC VAN BUSKIRK—VIRGINIA.
            In the Van Buskirk burial ground, near 
                        Gosport
                    , 
                        Monroe county
                    , Indiana, is the grave of Isaac Van Buskirk. The inscription on his tombstone is a
                    biography in itself. It is as follows: 
                        Sacred To the memory of ISAAC VAN BUSKIRK, who was born in 
                                Virginia
                             October 7, 1760.
                        He was a patriot soldier of the Revolution and fought at the Battle of Monmouth. He afterward
                            removed to 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , where he was married to Jerusha Little, by whom he had eight sons and four
                            daughters. Shortly after his marriage he again removed and was settled near Wheeling, Va.,
                            at a point on the then western frontier, in the defence of which he was almost constantly
                            engaged for several years and until 
                                Wayne
                            's treaty. In the fall of 1805 he removed to Indiana where he remained
                            until his death, October 27, 1843.
                    
                
            The Isaac Van Buskirk Chapter is composed entirely of his descendants.
            JOHN JOHNSON—VIRGINIA.
            In the Shelton Cemetery, about four miles south of 
                  Rochester, Fulton
                county, rest the
                    remains of John Johnson. A marble slab which marks his grave has the following epitaph: 
                        John Johnson A revolutionary soldier Died Aug. 7, 1860 Aged 96 yrs., 2 mo., 24
                            days.
                    
                
            John Johnson was born May 14, 1762, in 
                        Hanover county
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    , and in February, 1779, while living in that country, was drafted into Captain John
                    Anderson's company, and served  three months. In the
                    fall of 1780 he was drafted into Captain John Dandridge's company, and again in August,
                    1781, was drafted into Captain John White's company. He was at the siege of Yorktown, and
                    served three months and twenty days. He was allowed a pension on an application executed October 5,
                    1835, while a resident of 
                        Marion county
                    . He removed with his family to 
                        Marion county
                    , about eighteen years after the Revolutionary War, and located in 
                        Fulton county
                     about 1836. His wife is buried in 
                        Marion county
                     near 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Located by Manitou Chapter, 
                        Rochester
                    .
            JABEZ PERCIVXL (OR PARCIVAL)—CONNECTICUT.
            Dr. Jabez Percival was born in 
                        Chatham
                    , 
                        Connecticut
                    , July 16, 1760. Died June 28, 1841, in 
                  Lawrenceburg, Dearborn
                county, Indiana.
                    Was private in Captain Abel King's company, Colonel Sears's regiment. Term of
                    enlistment, three months. Was also one of the "Sugar House" prisoners. Buried in
                    the old cemetery at 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    . Wife was Elizabeth Stearns. Jabez Percival was also a "real son."
                    His father, Timothy Percival, was born in 
                        East Haddam
                    , 
                        Connecticut
                    , 1733; died in 
                        Boone county
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1815. Was lieutenant and captain in continental infantry. Married, 1754, Mary Fuller.
                    Was taken prisoner at battle of Long Island.
            NATHANIEL PRENTICE, CONNECTICUT.
            Nathaniel Prentice came from 
                        Genessee county
                    , 
                        New York
                    , to 
                        Noble county
                    , Indiana, in 1837. His wife, Margaret Hedden Boyer, is buried in the same county. He
                    was at the battles of Bennington, Saratoga, Monmouth. Was in Captain Williams's company at 
                        Fort Griswold
                    , in July, 1779, and in Colonel Can-field's regiment at 
                        West Point
                     in September, 1781. He was present at the execution of Major Andre. Was a prisoner on
                    the notorious prison ship Jersey, was taken to 
                        Jamaica
                    , and at the close of the war was returned to 
                  Charleston, South Carolina
               ,
                    from which place he walked to his home in 
                        New London
                     county, 
                        Connecticut
                    . Received a pension of $40 per annum, commencing  on August 4, 1831, granted October 5, 1833. Nathaniel Prentice was born
                    March 14, 1764, and died January 23, 1839. He married, first, Lucy Campbell in 1788. She died and he
                    married, second, Margaret Hedden Boyer in 1800. She was born March 19, 1776, and died January 6,
                    1861. His tombstone was inscribed, "A Soldier of the Revolution." The cemetery at 
                        Ligonier
                     where he was buried was vacated several years ago and made into a public park, which on
                    petition of the chapter was named "Prentice Park."
            BENJAMIN CUTLER—MASSACHUSETTS.
            Benjamin Cutler was born in 
                  Lexington, Massachusetts
               , in 1725, and died in 
                        Martinsville
                    , Indiana, in 1514. He was sergeant at the 
                        Lexington
                     alarm in Captain Joseph Fairbanks's company, Colonel Asa Whitcomb's
                    regiment. His wife was Mary (Cozad) Coon.
            THOMAS CURRTIE— VIRGINIA.
            Thomas Currie was born in 
                        Ireland
                     in 1763, came to America in 1770 and enlisted in 1777 at the age of fourteen from 
                        London county
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    , and served in the 
                        Virginia
                     line. He died in Indiana in 1847 and is buried at 
                        Ebenezer
                    , 
                        Franklin county
                    .
            GEORGE EWING—NEW JERSEY.
            George Ewing was born in 
                        Greenwich
                    , 
                        New Jersey
                    , 1754, and died in Indiana February 20, 1821. His wife, Rachel Harris, died September
                    28, 1826, and both are buried at 
                        Cannelton
                    , 
                        Perry county
                    . He enlisted in 1775 as ensign of 
                        New Jersey
                     Infantry. Was at 
                        Ticonderoga
                    , 
                        Long Island
                    , 
                        Trenton
                    , 
                        Germantown
                     and 
                        Valley Forge
                    . He was lieutenant of artillery in 1778 under Captain Randall. The diary he kept during
                    service ends at this date.
            HENRY FUNK.
            Henry Funk served in the frontier militia in Captain Joseph Bowman's company, under Colonel
                    George Rogers Clark. He  received land for his services in
                    Indiana and died in 
                        Harrison county
                     in 1816. He is buried on the west bank of Big Indian creek, near New Amsterdam. His
                    wife was Elizabeth Miller. Located by Piankeshaw Chapter, 
                        New Albany
                    .
            JOEL GARRISON—NEW JERSEY.
            Joel Garrison was born in 
                        Scotland
                     in 1760, and died in 
                        Stilesville
                    , 
                        Hendricks county
                    , Indiana, in 1835. Enlisted as drummer and served several enlistments in 
                        New Jersey
                     militia. Wife, Christine______. A pensioner.
            MAJOR JOSEPH NEELEY—PENNSYLVANIA.
            Major Joseph Neeley was born at sea, 1755, died in Indiana in 1811, and is buried in a field of the
                    homestead where he settled, in 
                        Gibson county
                    . He enlisted from 
                        Hanover
                     township, 
                        Lancaster county
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Sharpshooter. He was at Brandy-wine and served to the surrender at 
                        Yorktown
                    . His wife was Martha Johnston. Located by Cradle of Liberty Chapter, Petersburg.
            CAPTAIN JOHN ARMSTRONG—PENNSYLVANIA.
            Captain John Armstrong was born in 
                        New Jersey
                     in 1755, and died in Indiana in 1816. He is buried in the old cemetery at 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . While a student at 
                        Princeton
                     he entered the army in the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     lines as sergeant and was brevet captain at the close of the war. He was an original
                    member of the Society of the 
                        Cincinnati
                     of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Grave located by Ann Rogers Clark Chapter, 
                        Jeffersonville
                    .
         
         
         
            HISTORICAL ACCURACY AND THE PROPOSED CONSTITUTION OF INDIANA.
            J. P. DUNN.
            I WOULD not feel called upon to make any rejoinder to Professor Coleman's article in the
                    December number of this magazine, but for the fact that he calls attention to an erroneous statement
                    of fact by me, which is indeed erroneous, as follows: "Mr. Dunn's statement that
                    ‘no vote of the people on the question of calling a convention, was taken in 1828 or in
                    1840,’ seems open to question, though I have not had time to look it up at first hand.
                    Mr. W. W. Thornton, in his authoritative article on The Laws of Indiana, in this quarterly, Vol. I,
                    p. 27, gives the number of votes cast both in 1828, and in 1840, and speaks of the question being
                    submitted the ‘fourth time,’ in 1849."
            In the interest of historical accuracy, I trust I shall always be as ready to correct an error of my
                    own as one of another. The question was submitted in 1828 and in 1840; but this point was a minor
                    consideration in my argument, and I was led into error by a rather hasty examination of newspaper
                    files, and the available records in the office of the Secretary of State, without finding any
                    mention of the constitutional question in connection with the election returns. I have since found
                    the records, and, as Mr. Thornton's figures are not quite accurate, I submit the following
                    statement:
            The question of holding a convention was submitted to the people in 1828, but the report of the vote
                    by the Secretary of State shows returns from only ten of the fifty-eight counties, the total being
                    3496 for, and 6130 against a convention. (House Journal, 1828-9, p. 559.) In 1840 the question was
                    again submitted, with a result of 12,277 for, and 61,721 against, in sixty-nine counties, fourteen
                    counties making no returns. (Doc. Journal, 1840, Doc. No. 12.) In the face of this vote of five to
                    one, the question of further submission was agitated all through the forties, and another vote was
                    taken in 1846, which resulted 33,175 for a convention and 28,843 against, a total of less than half
                    of the 126,123 votes cast at the election.
            
            These facts, however, make the "(precedent" for the exercise of legislative power
                    much stronger than it would have been on my original statement. I had gone on the theory that there
                    had been no expression whatever from the people; but here were two votes against a convention at the
                    twelfth year periods specified by the constitution of 1816, and a third vote, at an unauthorized
                    period, in which the majority of the voters did not vote on the question.
            There was urgent contention at the time that the legislature had no constitutional right to submit
                    the question of a convention except at a twelfth year period. A review of this sentiment, by Mr.
                    Thornton, will be found in the Report of the Indiana Bar Association, for 1902, p. 152. But
                    notwithstanding this claim, and notwithstanding the adverse votes of the people, the legislature of
                    1849 again submitted the question; and the legislature of 1850 called a convention without the
                    powers assigned to a convention by the constitution of 1816, or by the last vote of the people.
            Professor Coleman says that if this "proves anything, it proves too much, namely the right
                    of the legislature to submit any question even if it be expressly prohibited by the
                    constitution." I dissent. Nobody has ever made any such claim heretofore; and the action
                    was defended in the convention of 1851, on the express ground that the constitution did not prohibit
                    it, although it did not specifically authorize it. This is in exact line with the repeated decisions
                    of our Supreme Court, that: "The legislative authority of this State is the right to
                    exercise supreme and sovereign power, subject to no restrictions except those imposed by our
                    constitution, by the Federal Constitution, and by the laws and treaties made under it" (101
                    Ind., p. 564).
            Nobody has any power to impose any restriction of "precedent" on the exercise of
                    legislative power. This is not a government of precedents, but of a written constitution. But if it
                    be desired to consider precedent, as an academic proposition, I repeat that the action of 1851, is a
                    precedent for a greater exercise of legislative power, not expressly prohibited by the constitution,
                    than the action by the legislature of 1911, in submitting a proposed constitution to a vote of the
                    people.
         
         
         
            REPRINTS
            THE SCHOOLS OF INDIANAPOLIS.
            
               PROFESSOR A. C. SHORTRIDGE.
            [Professor A. C. Shortridge, still living at 
                  Irvington, Indianapolis
               , has been
                    called "the father of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     schools." In the history of the beginnings of the present system he certainly
                    played a conspicuous and important part, and these articles from his pen, considered as a first-hand
                    contribution to the subject, are of decided value. They were originally published in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     News in 1908, dates March 14, 21 and 28, and April 4, 11 and 18. We deem them well
                    worth reprinting, and will run them through the present year. Professor Shortridge came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1861, and in 1863 was made superintendent of our schools, a position he held for
                    eleven years. He has been blind for many years, and for several years has been also a cripple. The
                    Shortridge High School of 
                        Indianapolis
                     is named in his honor.— EDITOR. J
            The effort to establish and perfect a system of public schools in the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                     dates back to the years 1846-'47. The first charter of the town of 
                        Indianapolis
                     passed by the General Assembly in the winter of 1846-'47 provided for the
                    organization of x system of common schools. The Common Council was instructed therein to divide the
                    town into suitable school districts, and to provide by ordinance for the erection of school
                    buildings, and for the selection of teachers. The Council was further authorized, provided a
                    majority of the legal voters of the town should so order, to levy a tax, not to exceed 12 1/2 cents
                    on the hundred dollars' worth of taxable property, for the support of the schools. At the
                    first election held under the new charter a large majority of the citizens voted for free schools,
                    and the tax for their support was accordingly levied. For six years, up to 1853, the schools were
                    managed by trustees, one for each of the seven districts, but without any central head or
                    organization.
            In the year 1853, (luring the first sessions of the General Assembly under the constitution adopted
                    in 1851, the law for the organization and management of schools in the large towns was materially
                    changed. It provided for the appointment of three school trustees  by councils in cities and by town boards in incorporated towns, who were charged with the duty of
                    organizing and managing the public schools. In conformity therewith Messrs. Calvin Fletcher, Henry
                    P. Coburn and Henry F. West were appointed for this city.
            The first meeting of the new board was held March 18, 1853, at which time a corps of teachers was
                    appointed to take charge of the schools. Soon afterward a code of rules was adopted for the
                    government of the schools, and a two months' term of free schools was ordered to be opened
                    April 15, 1853.
            In September, 1855, Silas T, Bowen, at that time a member of the firm of Stewart & Bowen,
                    booksellers, was appointed superintendent, with instructions to visit the schools at stated times
                    and to meet with and instruct the teachers on Saturdays. Mr. Bowen came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     from 
                  Albany, New York
               , where he had been graduated from the 
                        Albany
                     Normal School, and where he had taught for a time. This was the leading institution of
                    its kind in the 
                        United States
                     at that time. His real purpose in coming to 
                        Indianapolis
                     was to take a place in the McLean Female Seminary, where he taught for two or three
                    years, and afterward became the junior member of the firm of Stewart & Bowen. Mr. George B.
                    Stone, who succeeded Mr. Bowen, and who, in 1856, was brought from 
                        New England
                    , was the first superintendent employed to give all his time to the schools. The degree
                    of excellence reached by them during the two years of his service fully demonstrated the wisdom of
                    the hoard in so ordering. The choice of Mr. Stone instilled new life into the effort to do for 
                        Indianapolis
                     what had been done in numbers of the 
                        New England
                     States, and was making splendid progress: is far west as 
                  New York, Pennsylvania
                and 
                        Ohio
                    , that was, to build up and perfect a system of common schools, not for poor people
                    alone, as was supposed by many, but schools in which tuition should be free and open to every one
                    and good enough for all alike, rich as well as poor.
            Excellent progress was made during the two years of Mr. Stone's supervision of the schools.
                    The pupils had been fairly well classified and graded, and but for the meager accommodations the
                    city would have had a system of schools that would compare favorably with other Western cities of
                    like size. The number of children  between the ages of five and
                    twenty-one, as shown in the enumeration of 1856, was 4,504, while Mr. Stone's report for
                    the year ending in June gives the number of seats as 1,210. Thus it will be seen, of the whole
                    school population there were accommodations for about twenty-six out of the hundred.
            Our older citizens can readily call to mind the outward appearance of these old and shabby
                    structures, and need not be told that the inside provision for light, ventilation and warming were
                    quite in keeping with the outward appearance. These houses, seven in number, were the only ones
                    owned by the city and used for school purposes for ten years. In closing his report, Superintendent
                    Stone describes the old county seminary, the buildings in which the high school was housed, as unfit
                    and wanting in almost every particular for the purposes for which it was intended, and urges the
                    necessity for better accommodations, and expresses the hope that at the earliest possible clay a
                    building suited to the wants of the city might be erected, one that would be creditable alike to the
                    city and State, and that would compare favorably with similar buildings in cities of the same size.
            All things considered, it may be said that a good beginning had been made for a system of schools
                    that would meet the needs of the city.
            If what had already been done could have been followed by liberal taxation and wise counsels, all
                    would have gone well, but early in the year 1858 there came from the Supreme Court of the State a
                    decision that put an end, for the time being, to all attempts at public education. Of course, there
                    was the pittance of 10 cents on the hundred dollars of all taxable property of the State, provided
                    for by the legislature, that was still available, but this yielded only $2.03 to each
                    child of school age, scarcely enough for a beginning. No school corporation, city, town or township,
                    could levy and collect taxes to the amount of a dollar for the purchase of land, the building and
                    equipment of houses or for the payment of teachers. Most of the leading teachers of the State, men
                    and women, either left the State or engaged in other pursuits.
            While the organic law of the State did not permit the organization and equipment of public schools,
                    it did not prevent good men  or bad men from emigrating to other
                    States. Availing themselves of this wise omission by the framers of the constitution, large numbers
                    of our most capable teachers and managers of schools, just the ones we ought to have been able to
                    keep with us, went elsewhere, where they soon found ready employment in their chosen professions. A
                    majority of the school buildings for the remainder of the time were turned over to such persons as
                    desired to make use of them for private school purposes. James Green was employed as director of the
                    free school term from 1858 to 1860, and Professor G. W. Hoss from 1861 to 1863. The latter was at
                    that time a professor of mathematics in the Northwestern Christian University, and for a time gave
                    his afternoons to the supervision of schools.
            The close of Professor Hoss's term of service rounded up the first ten years of the
                    city's effort to establish and perfect, in the language of the constitution, a general and
                    uniform system of common schools wherein tuition should be free and open to all.
            The ten-year period opened in 1853 with three of the city's best citizens as directors, with
                    an almost empty treasury and a general insufficiency of all things needful in such an undertaking.
                    Certainly the outlook was by no means as promising at the close of this period as at the beginning.
            Owing to the rapid increase in the number of school children, as shown by the enumeration, and the
                    early restoration of the right of cities and towns, denied by the Supreme Court of the State, to
                    levy taxes for the construction of houses and to pay teachers, the schools of 
                        Indianapolis
                     at once took on an air of progress, and only a few years elapsed before they were well
                    under way.
            It was at this time, September 1, 1863, that the writer was chosen superintendent of the schools,
                    adding another to the already long list of changes in supervision. By this time the school
                    population had grown from 3,003 in 1853 to more than double that number. One house in the Eighth
                    ward, in 
                        Virginia
                     avenue, had been added, and the old county seminary in University Square abandoned, so
                    that then there were twenty-two schoolrooms. However, by the use of a few indifferent recitation  rooms, halls and cloakrooms, room for twenty-nine teachers could
                    be found.
            No attempt had been made to classify or grade the schools for the last five years. The free schools
                    had been kept open only about three and a half months in each of the previous ten years. And in one
                    year, 1859, no attempt at all had been made to open them. A considerable number of children had
                    attended private schools for a time in each year.
            This fact, that ten years had passed in an effort to organize and establish schools for public
                    education, and that practically nothing had been done, could not be charged to the persons who were
                    chosen to organize them, or to those people who were selected to teach them. It was wholly to be
                    charged to the disastrous decision of the Supreme Court, which not only prostrated all efforts here,
                    but in every city, town and rural community in the State.
            From the opening of the school year in September, 1863, steady and continued progress was made in all
                    things that go toward making up a complete and well-equipped school system. It is not contended that
                    the onward movement, which had its beginning in the early 60's, was the result of superior
                    organization and management, but mainly for the reason that at this time money came into the
                    treasury in sufficient amounts to keep the schools open a whole year.
            The gowth for the eleven years ending in June, 1874, can be briefly stated as follows: The total
                    amount of property owned by the city and devoted to school use was $88,500 in 1863. In
                    eleven years the property had increased to $697,259. The total enrollment of children for
                    the same time increased from 900 to 9,345. The amount paid for teachers' salaries increased
                    from $9,235, an average salary for each teacher of $319, to
                    $105,050. A public high school that had already reached an attendance of 380 pupils. A
                    training school wherein young women were prepared for the arduous work of teaching had been opened,
                    and one hundred of its graduates had already been added to the corps of teachers.
            At the opening of this period there was only one book belonging to the schools, an old copy of
                    Webster's Dictionary, other than that in which the proceedings of an occasional meeting of
                         the school board were recorded. At the close of this period
                    in 1874 there were 12,798 volumes in the city library, valued for insurance at a like number of
                    dollars. Added to this good showing, a law had been enacted for the admission of colored children on
                    equal terms with the white, and already there was an attendance at both day and night schools of
                    more than eight hundred colored children.
            As the public schools from year to year grew in numbers and efficiency, the private schools grew in
                    efficiency but lost decidedly in numbers. In 1864 there were in attendance at private and parochial
                    schools 3,539 children. In 1874 the attendance at these schools was reduced more than one-half. In
                    1873-'74 the private and parochial schools numbered fourteen, employing forty-two teachers,
                    with 1,758 pupils, whose tuition alone was $22,014—an average of
                    $12.31. The attendance classified for that year was: German-English church schools, 497;
                    German-English non-sectarian schools, 448; strictly American schools, with English-speaking children
                    only, 118; total number of children of school age in the city at that time was 19,125.
            Public high schools, as they are at present organized and managed, practically in all cities and
                    incorporated towns, and often in rural communities in this country, and always paid for by the taxes
                    levied on the property of citizens, are largely a modern institution. For a few years before the
                    first attempt was made in this city to establish such a school there were probably not more than a
                    score of such schools in the 
                        United States
                    . The necessity for schools that would afford opportunities for education above and
                    beyond the usual elementary schools became apparent. Such schools, to meet this want, were, at an
                    early clay, organized in leading cities, though, in point of numbers, the increase was not as rapid
                    as, it seems at this day, it should have been.
            The growth and importance of a class of schools that should prepare students for colleges and other
                    higher institutions of learning also became apparent, and the number of such schools has regularly
                    increased for a half century.
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                     High School was organized in 1864, September 1. Though there were only about 900
                    children at the beginning  of the school year, the enrollment had
                    advanced to more than 1,200 by the close of the schools in June. It was early seen that a goodly
                    number of the boys and girls were large and strong, mentally and physically, far beyond their
                    scholastic attainments. Naturally enough, they desired to be taught something besides those branches
                    of learning taught in the ward schools, as they were then called. There were, to be sure, several
                    schools of a higher character, mainly devoted to the education of young women.
            Besides the schools organized and supported by the Catholic and Lutheran churches, affording limited
                    facilities for higher education, there were the German-English school, Indiana Female College,
                    McLean Seminary, Baptist Female Institute, the preparatory school in the Northwestern Christian
                    University, and for a time a school managed and taught by Thomas Charles and William Mendenhall, two
                    scholarly men of fine character. These schools were all supported by tuition fees. Of the large
                    number of children of school age in the city there were hundreds of promising boys and girls from
                    fifteen to eighteen or nineteen years old, whose parents were unable to pay tuition and give them
                    the higher education to which they were entitled.
            Added to this, there was an apparent necessity for placing before the lower schools a school of
                    higher grade, and the salutary influence of the high school could everywhere be seen on the lower
                    schools at once. Besides, there was a strong desire to build up and maintain in the capital and
                    chief city of the State a complete public school system that would bear favorable comparison with
                    any other city in the West. To this end the most advanced pupils in the larger school buildings were
                    summoned to present themselves for examination.
            Twenty-eight of the number examined were chosen, and at once formed the nucleus of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     High School. Not one pupil, however, of the entire number was sufficiently advanced to
                    begin regular high school work, and it took one year of close application to bring the best of them
                    up to a high school course of study, so that high school work really began in September  1865. The first class of five was graduated in 1869. I give here the
                    program of the graduating exercises: 
                  Music
                  Invocation
                  Music
                  Oration—"We Stand Athirst," Albert William Coffin
                  Oration—"Wonders," Frank Harper Hays
                  Music
                  Oration—"Procrastination," William Henry Hubbard
                  Essay—"Light Houses," Sylvia Henrietta Shrake
                  Music
                  Oration—"Sparks," Merrick Eugene Vinton
                  Music
                  Awarding Diplomas
                  Music
                  Benediction
               
            
            Of these five graduates, three of them, Messrs. Hubbard, Coffin and Vinton, are leading business men;
                    Frank Harper Hays, a minister, and Miss Schrake, at present and for many years past one of our best
                    supervising principals in the city's public schools.
            Of the twenty-nine teachers who were employed in the schools during the year 1863-'64, four
                    were men. At the close of the year three of these were retired, and one, W. A. Bell, who was thought
                    to be the best fitted for the work to be done, was retained and made principal of the high school.
            The school headed by Mr. Bell, assisted by Miss Anna Nye, a young woman of excellent character and
                    attainments, was quartered for the first two years in the old First ward school building, corner of 
                        Vermont
                     and 
                        New Jersey
                     streets, with seats accommodating fewer than sixty pupils. At the end of this time, in
                    1866, the school trustees purchased the old Second Presbyterian Church, corner of Market and Circle
                    streets.
            Thus, for the first time, the high school was privileged to occupy a building devoted exclusively to
                    its own use. After many changes in the inner structure of the building, it served its purpose  until the year 1870, when the school was removed to its present
                    site, corner of 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     streets.
            This property, long known as the Baptist Institute property, and for many years occupied by the
                    Baptist Female Institute, was purchased at a cost of $41,000 for the use of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     High School, and is still its home. The old buildings, with such changes and additions
                    as were found necessary, were used for high school and library purposes until the year 1885, when
                    the main part of the present structure was erected and the library was removed to 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     streets.
            [To be continued.]
            NOTES FROM CALVIN M. YOUNG.
            Mr. Calvin M. Young, of 
                        Greenville
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , sends us some matter, published by him in newspapers, from which we extract a few
                    notes.
            In one of these contributions Mr. Young writes of "a class of ancient Americans known as the
                    Garden Makers." We confess ourselves ignorant of any such race, though some of our Indians
                    within the historic period, such as the Cherokees, the Miamis, and some of the Iroquois tribes,
                    attained to considerable proficiency as tillers of the soil. Here is what Mr. Young has to say:
            "Aside from the prehistoric cliff dwellings of 
                        New Mexico
                     and 
                        Arizona
                     or of the ancient Mound Builders of the Mississippi Valley or
                    still of the fierce and warlike tribes found in America when 
                        Columbus
                     discovered the same, were a class of ancient Americans known as the Garden Makers. The
                    father of the writer, in his younger days, while wandering through the forests of northern Indiana
                    during a hunting and exploring expedition in 1842, discovered evidence of the Garden Makers on the
                    east bank of Tippe-canoe river, 
                        Fulton county
                    , Indiana, about one mile below the old wigwam. It contains near two acres of ground;
                    was laid out with nice system, in regular beds, with walks and cross paths, as neat as any garden of
                    modern times. It was noticed that there were oak trees of three and four feet in diameter, growing
                    at the time  on the beds. It was known by the early settlers from
                    its mysterious and unknown origin as the Devil's Garden.
            "We read that in western 
                        Michigan
                     the so-called garden beds are a distinguished feature of the ancient occupation, often
                    covering many acres in a place, in a great variety of forms, both regular and grotesque. De Lapham
                    also tells us that portions of 
                        Wisconsin
                     have an abundance of them. These beds average a width of four feet, the depth of the
                    walks between them is six inches. The evidence seems to imply that they did not belong to the mound
                    building race, but were a different people, who lived principally by horticulture.
            "It is a known fact that potatoes, corn, beans and tomatoes are indigenous to American soil
                    and were no doubt cultivated by this singular people. It seems that they have had nothing to do with
                    the mounds and earthworks with which they were surrounded, consequently must have been a peaceable
                    and quiet race of inhabitants, living in the regions of the Northwest. As all primitive people have
                    lived in and during the stone age, it is difficult to tell by the stone implements and weapons of
                    the Garden Makers any difference between those of other various nations and tribes that inhabited
                    this country during the past ages.
            "Soon the plow of civilized man will extinguish the last trace or vestige of this singular
                    people; hence it is important that all records and evidence of their past existence should be
                    preserved."
            In another article Mr. Young tells of the 
                        Canada
                     lynx in Indiana. "Over sixty years ago," he says, "four
                    trappers had built a hunter's cabin on the banks of the great Kankakee, near
                        English lake, in what is now 
                        Stark county
                    , Indiana. The nearest cabin was more than ten miles distant and the owner had become
                    discouraged and left it in possession of Indians and wild animals and returned to the State of 
                        New York
                    , from whence he had come. It was the beginning of winter and here they remained four
                    long months trapping and hunting. The name of these adventurers were Walker, Allen, Young, and still
                    another whose name is now forgotten. An ox team had brought them down from the settlement with
                    blankets, clothing, flour, salt, and a plentiful supply of ammunition. Great troughs were hewn out
                    of trees for salting  meat and as a receptacle for extra
                    clothing, of which Allen boasted of having a fine shirt. They had remained here but a short time
                    until they were convinced by the great round tracks that bounded through the snow that it was the
                    occasional hunting ground of more than one 
                        Canada
                     lynx. During a couple of days of warm weather in February, when the snow had about all
                    disappeared from the ground, it was discovered that some wild animals had been forced, through
                    hunger, to make a partial meal from the remains of a wild hog that had been shot and left lying on
                    the spot during the previous day. It was impossible to tell what it was, as the tracks were
                    indistinct and somewhat dim. Whereupon it was decided that one of the large wolf traps should be set
                    at the above named place during the following night, which was accordingly done, and the end of the
                    great chain securely fastened to a beech tree near by, the whole device being ingeniously covered
                    with forest leaves as a blind. The following morning found Walker and Young on the path which led to
                    the wolf trap. But long before they had arrived at the spot and even before they were yet in sight
                    the furious rolling of the great chain could plainly be heard in the stillness of the morning. After
                    passing the last thicket of buttonwood and willows the hunters came in full view of the animal with
                    round head and large eyes that glared like living coals of fire. It would run up the tree the full
                    length of the chain and then make a furious bound toward the hunters. While momentarily seated on
                    the lower limbs of the tree it was dispatched with a rifle ball, and proved to be one of the largest
                    species of 
                        Canada
                     lynx."
            In the first article quoted, the old garden on the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     is specifically located as "about one mile below the old Wigwam." The
                    "Wigwam," the writer explains, is a name that was applied by the white man to an
                    elevated plain on the west bank of the Tippecanoe river about six miles above 
                        Rochester
                    . "All evidence," he says, "points to the fact that this was
                    an old Indian village site," and he further says, indeed, that there was a Pottawatami
                    village here when the whites came, and that "the quite early settlers, many times at the
                    dead of night, could hear them holloa, sing and dance for miles around."
            
            In the Archaeological and Historical Quarterly for July, 1911, Mr. Young publishes an article on the
                    birthplace of Little Turtle, which was "on the north tributary of Eel
                    river, twenty miles northwest of 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    , in 
                        Whitley county
                    ." His grave, Mr. Young says, is unknown, and "the most diligent
                    search in recent times has failed to locate the place of his burial." Apropos to this,
                    about eleven years ago the present writer was told by an old resident of 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    , Louis Peltier, that Little Turtle was buried in that city, clothed in a military
                    uniform with a sword, and that long years after the remains were found by chance and identified by
                    the trappings. For the authenticity of this we, of course can not vouch.
            A FATHER OF EXPOSITIONS.
            In a sketch of Professor John H. Campbell, of 
                        Wabash
                     College, in his relation to the Centennial Exposition of 1876, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     News of February 13, 1905, has this information:
            "It is a fact worth remembering that the first suggestion for the first international
                    exposition of arts and sciences held in America should have come from an interior agricultural
                    State. Professor Campbell's record as a leading scientist and educator of Indiana and his
                    long connection with 
                        Wabash
                     Collage are well known, but it is not so well known that he was the first to suggest
                    the Centennial Exposition of 1876. Perhaps he got the idea from the fact that in 1864 he delivered a
                    lecture in the Smithsonian Institution, at 
                        Washington
                    , commemorative of the third centennial anniversary of the birth of Galileo. Two years
                    later, in 1866, he wrote to Mayor McMichael, of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , suggesting the holding of a centennial international exposition in 1876. A repetition
                    of the suggestion led the mayor and City Council of 
                        Philadelphia
                     to take such action that in March, 1871, Congress passed an act providing for the
                    holding of the exposition at 
                        Philadelphia
                     and committing the Government to its support.
            "The act provided for the appointment of a commissioner from each State, and Mr. Campbell
                    was appointed from this State. At the first meeting of the commission in March, 1872, it elected the
                         Hon. Joseph R. Hawley, of 
                        Connecticut
                    , president, Mr. Campbell secretary and Alfred T. Goshorn, of 
                        Ohio
                    , general manager. Mr. Campbell continued to serve as secretary of the commission until
                    its last meeting in 1877. He was also chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, and was largely
                    instrumental in securing the cooperation and patronage of foreign governments.
            "The by-laws of the commission required the secretary to act also as its treasurer, and all
                    moneys disbursed on behalf of the members, officers and employes of the commission and the immediate
                    expenses of the general bureaus of administration passed through Professor Campbell's
                    hands. These disbursements covered the expenses for meetings of the commission, traveling and hotel
                    bills, office expenses, printing and stationery, salaries, etc. They amounted to a total of
                    $331,030.89. These disbursements were accounted for by Professor Campbell with scrupulous
                    exactness.
            "An act of Congress, passed June 1, 1872, created and incorporated a centennial board of
                    finance and named incorporators from each State. It may be interesting to recall those from Indiana.
                    They were: Commissioners-at-large, Franklin Keyes, William J. Ball, Edwin J. Peck, E. B. Martindale,
                    Smith Vawter and John Brownsfield; First district, Hamilton Smith and Charles Viele; Second
                    district, Washington C. DePauw and Jesse J. Brown; Third district, Thomas Gaff and James B. Foley;
                    Fourth district, George C. Clark and Jesse C. Siddall; Fifth district, William Wallace and Theodore
                    Haughey; Sixth district, R. W. Thompson and John J. Key; Seventh district, William H. Levering and
                    Henry V. Morrison; Eighth district, Herman E. Sterne and James L. Evans; Ninth district, Jesse L.
                    Williams and David Kilgore; Tenth district, John B. Howe and David Rippy; for additional district,
                    John W. Grubbs and Godlove S. Orth. Most of these men, prominent in their respective communities in
                    1872, are now dead.
            "The Centennial was the pioneer of American expositions, and its managers had to blaze their
                    way. In all essential respects it was a great success. Its opening was marked by features of special
                    interest, including an oration by William M. Evarts, hymns  or
                    poems composed for the occasion by John G. Whittier, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Bayard Taylor and Sidney
                    Lanier, and other notable features.
            "Professor Campbell served as secretary of the commission from its first organization till
                    its last meeting. In his final report, he said: ‘Your secretary believes that the first
                    suggestion that the centennial celebration ought to involve an international exhibition held at 
                        Philadelphia
                    , was made in a letter written by him in 1866 to Mr. Morton McMichael, then mayor of 
                        Philadelphia
                    . Subsequently, I again called Mayor McMichael's attention to the subject, and
                    he conferred upon it with a number of influential citizens of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , most of them members of the 
                        Franklin
                     Institute. This led to the formation of a committee of citizens who invited Mr. Daniel
                    I. Morrell, then a member of Congress from 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , to join them in the consideration of measures to promote an international
                    exhibition.’ The action of Congress and the various State legislatures followed in due
                    course.
            "A silver medal awarded to Professor Campbell at the close of the exhibition was in
                    recognition of the fact that he was the first person to suggest it, and also of his services as
                    secretary from its inception till its close."
            A GODFROY TRADITION.
            A fugitive newspaper communication touching the sale of the Godfroy home near Peru, a number of years
                    ago, presents a story which, presumably, was gleaned from Gabriel Godfroy, who to a notable degree
                    treasured the traditions of his tribe and family:
            "B. E. Wallace has purchased from Gabriel Godfroy, the last lineal descendant chief of the
                    old Miami Indians, the ancestral farm of the chief, near Peru. The farm is 240 acres, lying between
                    the forks of the Wabash and Mississinnewa rivers, and
                    brought $24,000. There is much interesting Indian history connected with this estate. In
                    the rear of the Godfroy mansion lies an eminence, stately and noticeable for many miles around, on
                    which the tribal meetings used to be held. During one of these meetings occurred the following:
            
            "Chief Majenica was a conspicuous character among the Miamis, a prominent head man,
                    arrogant, supercilious and severe, with a commanding influence and an imperious will. He had ever
                    objected to the younger men of the tribe taking part in the deliberations, and was wont to cut them
                    IS abruptly and require them to be silent whenever they undertook to be heard. He had on many
                    occasions been harsh and rude to the ambitious young bucks, and had offended Francis Godfroy, the
                    father of Gabriel, on more occasions than the chivalrous buck could brook. Chafing under such
                    treatment and brooding over it until the recollection became a torture, he resolved to submit to it
                    no longer and to be heard at all hazards. He concealed his purpose from even his most trusted
                    friends and prepared himself for the ordeal.
            "While the deliberations of the council were in progress one day, he rose and
                    dispassionately protested against the exclusion of the young men from having a voice in the debates,
                    and was, of course, called to order and requested to take his seat. He declined and proceeded to
                    discuss the injustice of the course pursued against them and to criticise the overbearing conduct of
                    Chief Majenica. He was a young men of more than ordinary ability as an orator, and his remarks were
                    listened to with respect and approval. He turned a deaf ear to Majenica's commands to be
                    silent and continued until the Chief rose as if to enforce them physically.
            "This was the opportunity sought for by Godfroy. He drew two knives concealed on his person,
                    one in each hand, and imperiously tendered one to Majenica, which was taken, and demanded the other
                    hand, which he clasped. Pointing with his knife to the sun, he exclaimed:
            " ‘Look at yonder sun; it is the last time you shall ever behold its
                    setting.’
            "Majenica was a majestic Indian, over six feet high, and built on the gladiator
                    architecture. Godfroy was of the same stature and equally as stalwart. The gesture, the voice, the
                    eye, had an awful effect on the chief. He was no coward, but he trembled like an aspen, and the
                    knife fell from his nerveless grasp. They separated, and Godfroy resumed his address. Before the
                    meeting  closed Godfroy was chosen a war chief without a
                    dissenting voice. Gabriel Godfroy's grandfather was a full-blooded Frenchman, and came of
                    stock of which heroes are born. He was a descendant of Godfrey of Bouillon, chief leader of the
                    first crusade, and distinguished for his martial exploits. He headed the French force sent out
                    against the infidels for the recovery of the holy sepulchre, and took the city of Jerusalem. He was
                    offered, by his army, the sovereignty of the city, but refused, saying he would never accept a crown
                    of gold in a city where his Savior had worn a crown of thorns."
            WILLIAM DAWSON, SHOEMAKER-ASTRONOMER.
            Mrs. M. E. S. Charles writes in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     News of February 13, 1901:
            "At the age of twenty, William Dawson, of 
                        Spiceland
                    , began keeping a record of the weather. In the beginning, he did not take the
                    temperature daily, but a little later he did so, taking it three times a day—at 7 a. m.,
                    2 p. m. and 9 p. m. This he kept up for a period of about thirty-five years.
            "The dream of his early life was the possession of a telescope of four or five inches in
                    diameter. But it was not till 1867 that he could spare the two or three hundred dollars, earned at
                    his trade as a shoemaker, that was required to obtain the glasses and parts that he could not make.
            "After a good deal of correspondence with different astronomers, he set to work. He was well
                    aware that a good object glass was the main thing, and he sent to 
                        Boston
                     for one four and a half inches in diameter. This cost $185. In addition he
                    ordered three eye-pieces, which cost $5 each. In writing of this, he said:
                    ‘About the most gratifying occasion of my life was the arrival and sight of glasses for a
                    six-foot achromatic telescope.’
            "While the glasses were on the way he procured a zinc tube made larger at one end than the
                    other, in which he placed his treasures upon their arrival, and although it was snowing, he soon had
                    the satisfaction of testing the quality of the glasses and his workmanship upon surrounding objects,
                    which he could see distinctly a mile or more away.
            
            "He succeeded in mounting his telescope satisfactorily, and in a manner that admitted of its
                    being turned in any direction. He said: ‘Much study and work were done before all this
                    was completed, and considerable shoemaking had to be done, too. But it was highly gratifying to set
                    the telescope in range with a star then see a large "diamond in the sky" at
                    noonday.’
            "Mr. Dawson was one of the most conscientious of men in his dealings with his fellow-men,
                    and painstaking to the last degree in his astronomical calculations. So accurate was he in his work
                    that his calculations and observations were accepted at the Lick Observatory.
            "He was much interested in the controversy between astronomy and religion. He did not want
                    to detract one iota from the great benefits of the church in all ages, but he frequently pointed out
                    in articles written for publication, the persecutions which the sciences of geography and astronomy
                    have endured.
            "His contributions to the press were many and varied, touching upon almost every phase of
                    astronomical phenomena. In the American Meteorological Journal for 1884 was printed a series of
                    articles containing tables of barometric observations for the period between 1861 and 1884.
            "The 
                        Kansas City
                     Review of Science and Industry, for August, 1883, contains the eclipses from 1800 to
                    1900, as calculated by Mr. Dawson. He wrote frequently for the 
                        Indianapolis
                     papers for a period of years; occasionally for some Eastern papers, as well as for
                    distinctively scientific periodicals.
            "Besides being practical he saw the beauty of the relation of the heavenly bodies to each
                    other and to the needs of humanity, and could express his thoughts in beautiful language. He was an
                    intelligent talker, especially when conversing upon the subject of astronomy. Many a student of 
                        Spiceland
                     Academy has taken advantage of his obliging disposition and while waiting for him to
                    mend a shoe, ply him with questions about the sun, moon and stars, or some kindred topic.
            "In 1878 he built a new residence and on the second story of this house he constructed a
                    dome about twelve feet in diameter, from his own plans, in which he mounted his telescope. This  dome was made to revolve, so that by a slight push of the hand
                    the telescope could be turned upon any part of the heavens.
            "Mr. Dawson began his observations of the sun in March, 1867, and for several days saw no
                    spots, and but few were seen until about the middle of September, when a group of fifteen appeared
                    near the sun's center. From this time the number and size of the spots increased up to
                    August, 1872. He generally used a magnifying power of one hundred diameters and on one occasion in
                    the month of August, 187& saw 640 sunspots; changing to a 200 eyepiece he counted the
                    astonishing number of 950 spots. But a change soon followed this display. The number gradually grew
                    less and the spots smaller until 1878, when often none were seen for days. This was near the end of
                    the period of recurrence, which is eleven years. The size of the spots varies much, but to be seen
                    as a mere speck, they must have a diameter of four or five hundred miles. The largest one seen by
                    him he calculated to be 30,000 miles long and 12,000 wide.
            "This pioneer astronomer died August 12, 1890, leaving the astronomic world richer for his
                    having lived in it."
         
         
         
            EDITORIAL
            At a meeting of the Executive Committee of the Indiana Historical Society some time since, Miss Eliza
                    G. Browning was appointed to confer with the patriotic societies in the State with the view of
                    enlisting their interest in this magazine. The result thus far is that the Indiana societies of
                    Colonial Dames, Sons of the Revolution and Sons of the American Revolution have each pledged ten
                    dollars annually toward its support. Others, we trust, will respond favorably. As a further result
                    we will doubtless receive through these societies matter of interest to their members. Elsewhere in
                    this issue will be found a surprisingly long list, hitherto unpublished, of Revolutionary
                    soldiers' graves, which have been located through the Daughters of the American Revolution.
            OLD PORTABLE THRESHER.
            In our last issue a posthumous paper by the late Benjamin S. Parker described an old-time threshing
                    machine which did its work while moving, and we expressed some curiosity in a footnote and a desire
                    for further information. A letter from Mr. John Ade, of 
                        Kentland
                    , refers us to his history of 
                        Newton county
                     for further description of the machine in question, which we take pleasure in quoting:
            "The next step in advance was the traveling threshing machine, which got its power from
                    gearing attached to the hind wheels of the machine when in motion. When threshing from the shock  the driver would pass along by a row of shocks, and one or more
                    men afoot would throw a sheaf from each shock as it passed. A man riding on a platform would feed
                    the grain to the machine, the straw would be scattered behind the machine, and the grain be caught
                    in a large box under the cylinder. This machine was provided with a fan and the grain was made
                    comparatively clean. There were generally four horses used on the machine, and sometimes six. When
                    threshing from a stack, they would load some ten dozen sheaves on the platform, then drive around a
                    circle large enough to thresh that amount of grain, and repeat the operation."
            The history of 
                        Newton county
                     was reviewed in our issue of September, 1911. We cannot forbear quoting from Mr.
                    Ade's letter a little compliment of the kind to which we are susceptible: "I
                    have," he says, "been a subscriber to your magazine, I think, from the start, and
                    have derived much valuable information from the reading of it."
            ERRORS CORRECTED.
            The following extract from a letter which we are asked to print in this magazine explains itself:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        "In the Historical Society's publications, Vol. III. p. 244, of
                                    Executive Journal of Indiana Territory, are two errors that should be corrected:
                        "Joel Decowsey, Lieutenant 3d Reg. Ind. M.
                        "Shadrock Wathamay, Com. Ensign in same.
                        "These names should be Decoursey and Hathaway. Shadrock Hathaway was my
                                    grandfather, and I knew Mr. Decoursey very well.
                        
                                    Yours very truly,
                                    "ELINOR HATHAWAY CAMPBELL."
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            REVIEWS OF BOOKS.
            "BESIDE THE OLD BRASS ANDIRONS."
            An artistic brochure with the above title, printed but not published by Alma Winston Wilson, is a
                    collection of reminiscences and old family letters too personal and intimate for public perusal, but
                    with passages of more general interest to the favored reader who is not of the family circle. The
                    subject matter, for the most part, has to do with the 
                        Indianapolis
                     of seventy-five or eighty years ago, and every glimpse of life here at that period,
                    that is at all fresh and authentic, is so much rescued from oblivion; though as above intimated,
                    much of it is too closely interwoven with the personal to be quoted here with propriety. This
                    charming description of the old John C. Brown homestead on Meridian street, however, can be quoted:
            "For more than fifty years there stood, fronting Meridian street (on a portion of the ground
                    now covered by the Federal building), a frame house of quaint design, surrounded by a beautiful
                    lawn, beautifully kept, and forest trees of primeval date.
            "The house was large and roomy, with wide halls and porches which made it attractive.
                    Especially delightful was the large hall in the rear, with folding doors at the east side, which
                    were kept open in summer, thereby converting it into an enclosed porch, where one might sit,
                    sheltered from heat or rain, and look out upon the lawn in the rear of the house, where flowering
                    bushes and shrubs vied with each other in shedding their sweetest perfume. Within a short distance
                    from this porch stood the well, over which waved an old weeping willow, with a grace an beauty never
                    seen in other trees."
            This old house was, in 1833, one of the social centers of the. little capital, and the author
                    heightens the charm of it by a little true love story, romantic enough to furnish the motive for a
                    fictionist. An excellent picture of the homestead and its grounds accompanies the text. That spot is
                    wonderfully transformed  now, but those who knew it fifteen or
                    twenty years ago will recall the then venerable and shabby relic, shorn of most of its yard and
                    crowded by buildings on either side. It stood nearly opposite the present Willoughby building.
            One of the especially interesting letters here put in print was written by William McPherson who in
                    1833 was drowned in White river through the agency of one Mike Van Blaricum,
                    and who is remembered in local history as the first person murdered in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The Holloway history in a passing, gossipy way, leaves a shadow resting on
                    McPherson's name, but the testimony in this little book and in this letter, speaking after
                    all these years, tends to dispel it. The letter gives evidence of culture and a refined, sensitive
                    and generous character. In this connection we would mention a fugitive story told by the late
                    General John Coburn, who, at the time of the tragedy, was a small boy and attended a school taught
                    by McPherson, whom he described as "a handsome man beloved by all the boys." Van
                    Blaricum, who was tried for the murder, sentenced to prison for three years and pardoned by Governor
                    Noble when his time was half up, was a changed man after the event. He feared to stir abroad after
                    nightfall, and what Mr. Coburn called the first ghost story of 
                        Indianapolis
                     was to the effect that Van Blaricum was haunted by the ghost of his victim. Van
                    Blaricum's own story was that twice he had met McPherson, once at the mouth of the old
                    covered bridge and again in a cornfield where the apparition rose up between the rows of corn and
                    shot at him with a rifle. Years after, when Mr. Coburn was in Congress, he met Edward McPherson, a
                    brother of William, who affirmed that after the pardoning of his brother's murderer, he
                    came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     with the purpose of having vengeance; that he stayed here a month seeking a chance, and
                    that once he waylaid his man in a cornfield and shot at him. He had borne, he said, a striking
                    resemblance to his brother. In view of this story one can readily conceive that the guilty Van
                    Blaricum believed in a supernatural visitation.
            A number of the letters printed in the booklet are written by 
                    Larzarus B. Wilson, father of the compiler and of the late Major Oliver M. Wilson. Mr. Wilson, a man
                    of parts, would have been better known in local history but for his own aversion to publicity which
                    discountenanced all personal advertising. In Sulgrove's history, on page 107, we find him
                    mentioned as having furnished the plans for the old National Road bridge over White
                    river, and these letters give glimpses of him as a surveyor and a co-worker with Jesse L.
                    Williams during the internal improvement era. He was a son of Thomas Wilson, the Revolutionary
                    soldier who received the standards from Cornwallis's army at the Yorktown surrender, and
                    was himself a soldier in the war of 1812. He was for many years a citizen of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , dying there in 1875.
         
         
            THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIANA.
            A little book with the above title, by Demarchus C. Brown, State Librarian of Indiana, is designed as
                    an outline presentation of the subject for use in the schools. The book is but a guide to the young
                    student, who, in the opinion of the author, should "think and investigate somewhat for
                    himself." To this end a bibliography of works bearing upon the subject is given, with the
                    suggestion that through these the teacher direct the supplementary reading of the pupils.
            As a compact little book, defined in its purpose, but not too ambitious, this manual fills a place,
                    and it borrows value from the fact that Professor Brown, being himself an experienced educator,
                    adapts it exactly to its purpose. Besides a brief survey of the governmental functions, we find the
                    Ordinance of 1787, the present Constitution and a list of the Governors from Arthur St. Clair to
                    Thomas R. Marshall. There is also a good index.
         
         
            AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF GURDON SALTONSTALL HUBBARD.
            The autobiography of Gurdon Saltonstall Hubbard, early settler of 
                        Chicago
                     and old trader, is a contribution to the history of 
                    the lake region which the Lakeside Press of 
                        Chicago
                     have published from the original manuscript, now in possession of the 
                        Chicago
                     Historical Society. From his boyhood Mr. Hubbard was, as a trader, familiar with the
                    fur country of the region mentioned, and he gives many intimate glimpses of life among the traders
                    and Indians of that day. It is, indeed, a valuable addition to what first-hand literature we have of
                    the Indian character and customs. An item of interest for this notice is that once or twice in the
                    course of the autobiography the writer visits northern Indiana.
            This publication is the handiwork of a school of printing in 
                        Chicago
                     which advertises its work by periodically issuing some work of historical value. It is,
                    we believe, not on the market, but a copy is in possession of our State Library.
         
      
      
         
      
   
