
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 56, Issue 4, pages 273-389. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:56+issue:4+year:1960&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Overland from 
                        St. Louis
                     to the 
                        California
                     Gold Field in 1849: The Diary of Joseph Waring Berrien∗
            
            
                    Edited by Ted and Caryl Hinckley
                    ∗∗
                
            On January 24, 1848, an inconsequential 
                        California
                     laborer noted in his diary: "'This day some kind of mettle was found
                    in the tail race that looks like goald, first discovered by James Martial, the Boss of the
                        Mill."1 Earlier the colorful John A. Sutter had ordered James
                    Marshall to build a sawmill in the Coloma Valley on the South Fork of the
                        American River. In the process of deepening the millrace,
                    Marshall's men had indeed discovered "goald." According to historian John
                    Caughey, this soft, yellow metal was to have a greater influence on 
                        California
                     history than any other single factor.2
            
            Because this newly discovered gold was sheltered within the isolated Sierra Nevada
                        Mountains, it was several months before the solitude of the lovely Coloma
                        Valley was shattered by hordes of gold-seekers. Thereafter methodical prospecting
                    slowly but steadily supplanted the first feverish treasure hunting; ultimately the full extent of
                    the mother lode lay revealed. This fabulously rich strip of the Sierra 
                  
                     ∗ Thousands of persons from the Old Northwest became
                            Forty-niners, many of them traveling the same route westward which Berrien followed.
                            Doubtless most of them had experiences similar to those Berrien describes. It is hoped that
                            the printing of this diary will bring to light accounts by Hoosier Argonauts which merit
                            publication. Persons who have such accounts are invited to write Donald F. Carmony, Editor,
                                Indiana Magazine of History, History Department, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, regarding their possible publication.
                  
                     ∗∗ Ted Hinckley is assistant professor of
                            history at 
                                San Jose
                             State College, San Jose, 
                                California
                            . Caryl Hinckley, his wife, teaches history at 
                                Saratoga
                             Junior High School at 
                                Saratoga
                            , 
                                California
                            .
                  
                     1 Rodman Paul, 
                        
                                    California
                                 Gold: The Beginning of Mining in the Far West (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1947), 17.
                  
                     2 John Walton Caughey, 
                                
                                    California
                                
                             (
                                New York
                            , 1940), 304.
               
                     Nevadas, roughly 150 miles in length, plus the far-flung gold
                    fields which lay adjacent to it encompassed an area approximately 700 miles long by 50 miles
                        wide.5
            
            "Forty-niner" has become the collective label for those who participated in the
                    famous 
                        California
                     gold rush. Quite a few people arrived in 1848, and many came after 1849; however, it
                    was the year 1849 which witnessed the first large wave of gold-seekers.4 Joseph
                    Waring Berrien, author of this account and resident of 
                        Belleville
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , was such a Forty-niner. He was one of about 80,000 persons who reached 
                        California
                     during 1849, some 55,000 of whom journeyed overland.5 Like most of
                    those going west, Berrien traveled via an overland trail. Very likely he chose this route rather
                    than the quicker and cleaner passage by sea because a land journey was cheaper. Then too, he may
                    have considered the fact that 
                        Belleville
                     was much closer to 
                        California
                     by land than by sea.
            Dreams of quick wealth and high adventure led many a young American to exchange the security of
                    civilization for the dangers of western travel and the vagaries of gold mining. Usually the highly
                    speculative nature of gold mining was revealed only by hindsight. Though hazards incurred in
                    reaching the fields were great, they have been unduly emphasized. As Berrien's account
                    makes clear, two factors substantially lessened perils confronting overland Forty-niners. First
                    these travelers were not moving west in isolated bands but in an irregular stream, and wagon
                    companies were often within sight of one another. When Berrien's wagon broke down, he
                    simply hiked off to secure the needed part. Heavy traffic usually guaranteed that assistance was not
                    too distant and that in a pinch needed supplies could be obtained. A second major condition which
                    eased the crossing was the apathy of the red men. The 
                        California
                     Trail led through a region inhabited by such famous nomadic hunting tribes as the
                    Pawnee, Sioux, and Cheyenne. As Walter Prescott Webb has noted, it was the horse and buffalo which
                    had enabled these Plains Indians to maintain their integrity 
                  
                     3 Paul, 
                        
                                    California
                                 Gold, 38-44.
                  
                     4 LeRoy R. Hafen and Carl Coke Rister, Western
                            America (Engle-wood Cliffs, 
                                N.J.
                            , 1941), 325-328.
                  
                     5 Ray Allen Billington, The Far Western Frontier:
                                1850-1860 (The New American Nation Series, ed., Henry Steele Commager and Richard
                            B. Morris; 
                                New York
                            , 1956), 225-226.
               
                     against the white men.6 Fortunately for
                    Joseph Berrien and his fellow Forty-niners, these Indians did not understand how soon the buffalo
                    was to be eliminated. Red men would frighten and bully the Argonauts, but it was not until some
                    years later, when goaded by fear of extinction and enforced removals, that they became a real threat
                    to life.
            Prior to the Mexican War, 1846-1848, most overland emigrants to the Pacific coast pointed their
                    prairie schooners toward the 
                        Columbia
                     and Willamette valleys of the 
                        Oregon Country
                    . The famous 
                        Oregon
                     Trail which they established was, of all the crude roads west, the trail which built up
                    America's western empire. Before the coming of man it had been the track of wild animals on
                    their seasonal migrations for grasses. Later it became a route used by Indians, then a pathway for
                    the ubiquitous trapper.7 In 1843, five years before the discovery of gold in 
                        California
                    , over one thousand persons moved westward over the 
                        Oregon
                     Trail. A small number of these emigrants left the 
                        Oregon
                     Trail in southwestern Wyoming or southeastern 
                        Idaho
                     and made their way to 
                        California
                    ; it was not until the time of the gold rush, however, that significant numbers moved
                    into 
                        California
                    .8
            
            Council Bluffs, 
                  Iowa, St.
                            Joseph, Missouri
               , and other
                    places served as starting points for the 
                        Oregon
                     Trail, but Independence, 
                        Missouri
                    , was perhaps the favorite rendezvous. The Forty-niners thronged into these towns as
                    they rushed westward. Many who commenced their wagon trains from near Independence had ascended the 
                        Missouri
                     by steamer from 
                        St. Louis
                     as Joseph Berrien did. As travelers headed west from Independence, the 
                        Oregon
                     Trail and the Santa Fe Trail were one for a short distance. At the fork of these
                    trails, the Forty-niners proceeded on the 
                        Oregon
                     Trail across northeastern 
                        Kansas
                     and reached the Platte River in south-central 
                        Nebraska
                    . From here they followed the Platte and then the North Platte out of 
                        Nebraska
                     into Wyoming where they crossed the Rockies at South Pass and moved thence to Fort Hall
                    in southeastern 
                        Idaho
                    . Most Forty-niners remained on the 
                        Oregon
                     Trail to Fort Hall, and from there they followed 
                  
                     6 Walter Prescott Webb, The Great Plains (
                                New York
                            , 1931), 53.
                  
                     7 J. R. Gregg, History of the 
                                Oregon
                             Trail, Santa Fe Trail, and Other Trails (
                                Portland
                            , Ore., 1955), 151.
                  
                     8 George R. Stewart expertly summarizes the opening of the first wagon
                            road to 
                                California
                             in 1844 in Moses Schallenberger, The Opening of the 
                                    California
                                 Trail, ed. George R. Stewart (
                                Berkeley
                             and 
                                Los Angeles
                            , Calif., 1953).
               
                     the 
                        California
                     Trail across northern Nevada, through the very difficult passes of the Sierra Nevadas,
                    and into the Promised Land. The heavy traffic of Forty-niners and other overlanders so pulverized
                    and dug into the soil and vegetation that in places tourists can yet see ruts made by the emigrant
                    trains.
            Judging by his diary, Berrien was entirely conventional in the manner in which he joined a 
                        California
                    -bound wagon train. Other than his precious mules, he seldom mentions items in his
                    inventory of equipment and supplies. Most likely he began his journey with meal, perhaps with butter
                    and eggs laid down in it, several barrels of flour, bacon or salt pork, coffee, salt, and saleratus.
                    He was also probably equipped with such vital items as a frying pan, matches, firearms, bucket, axe,
                    blankets, extra clothing, and a supply of rope.9 After some verbal assurances
                    from 
                        Belleville
                     friends that he would be welcome to join Colonel Jarrot's Company, he
                    purchased his equipment and the indispensable mules at 
                        St. Louis
                    , boarded a Missouri River steamer, and proceeded to 
                        St. Joseph
                    , a major embarkation town for the Forty-niners. From here he set out on a journey which
                    was to last four months.
            Unfortunately the editors, in whose possession the diary resides, have learned but little about
                    Joseph Waring Berrien.10 As is so often the case when a manuscript has been
                    passed from generation to generation, only the most fragmentary information accompanies it.
                    According to the recollections of now deceased relatives, particularly those of T. C. Hinckley, Sr.,
                    Berrien was a young, unmarried New Yorker who had come to 
                        Belleville
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , not too long before the gold rush fever spread across the 
                        United States
                    . The Berrien journal is among the finest of the many Forty-niner accounts which the
                    editors have examined. Berrien's lucid descriptions easily enable the reader to participate
                    in what was probably the most exciting experience of the diarist's life. Berrien's
                    occasional reflections on those with whom he traveled show him to have been quite human. Obviously
                    he was proud to be an 
                  
                     9 John Walton Caughey, Gold is the Cornerstone (Chonicles
                                of 
                                    California
                                ;
                            
                                Berkeley
                             and 
                                Los Angeles
                            , Calif., 1948), 98.
                  
                     10 For another account by a member of the Colonel Jarrot Comany of
                            overlanders, see the Daniel W. Gelwick Journal which is on file at the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society 
                        Springfield, Illinois
                     .
                            It is, however, distinctly inferior to the Berrien Diary.
               
                     American, and although he knew he was participating in a great
                    undertaking, Berrien's sense of the romantic rarely overwhelms his reportorial integrity.
                    Certainly the excellence of his composition will arouse envy among contemporary readers.
            Regrettably there is no written record of Berrien's success or failure in the diggings. A
                    third-generation descendant once surmised that Berrien "lost his shirt and came back to 
                        Belleville
                     a man poorer of purse but wealthier in common sense." Whatever may have been
                    the case, his journal remains as another testament to the astonishing attraction of the West and
                    most particularly to this force as a major factor in shaping American history.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Left St Louis 31st March [1849] at 9 1/2 PM enroute for1
                                    
                                        California
                                     on the steamer Alice, Kennett Master bound for St Joseph Mo2 the starting point selected by the Company in whose party I
                                    wish to journey. Passd St Charles in the night, Herman next afternoon at 3 O clock,
                                    Mouth of the Osage river at 8 O'clock same Evening,
                                    Jefferson City during the night of the 1st April. Arrived at Boonville 8
                                    O'clock April 2nd, 
                                        Glasgow
                                     same day at 1 O'clock, Brunswick at 1/2 past 6 same
                                    Evening—have passd several Boats that started 
                              
                                            1 The editors have made every effort to coy the Joseph Waring Berrien
                                                Diary exactly as it was written. Misspellings and peculiarities of
                                                punctuation are recorded as the diarist entered them, except that dashes
                                                become periods or commas where appropriate. In instances where the
                                                editors are uncertain whether a given mark was intended to be a comma or
                                                a period, the mark is interpreted according to modern usage. The same
                                                interpretation has been applied to doubtful capital letters. It is
                                                sometimes impossible to tell whether Berrien meant such words as
                                                "everything" and "overtake" to be
                                                written as one or two words; therefore, these and similar doubtful words
                                                are made to conform with present-day spelling. Berrien did not use
                                                paragraphing in writing his diary, presumably to avoid wasting writing
                                                space. In printing the diary, paragraphs are used to mark the beginning
                                                of Berrien's comments for each day, but the diary has been left
                                                otherwise unparagraphed.
                                            The editors wish to thank Professors Oscar O. Winther and Josephine
                                                Piercy, of Indiana University, the editors of the Indiana
                                                    Magazine of History, and Dr. James S. Holiday, of the Bancroft
                                                Library, University of 
                                                    California
                                                 at 
                                                    Berkeley
                                                , for their assistance and encouragement in this
                                                undertaking.
                                        
                              
                                 2
                                            
                                                St. Joseph
                                             and Independence, 
                                                Missouri
                                            , were major embarkation towns. Other towns which suddenly found
                                            themselves playing hosts to impetuous gold-seekers were 
                                                Brownsville
                                            , Corpus Christi, San Antonio, and 
                                                Austin
                                            , 
                                                Texas
                                            ; Fort Smith and Van Buren, 
                                                Arkansas
                                            ; and Kanesville (Council Bluffs), 
                                                Iowa
                                            . Ralph P. Bieber, "
                                                California
                                             Gold Mania," Mississippi Valley
                                            Historical Review, XXXV (June, 1948), 25.
                           
                                     before us. viz the Mary, Highland Mary Kit
                                    Carson and Mustang. Met Steamers Haidu and Julia returning to St Louis. We have a
                                    very jovial set on our Boat nearly all of them for 
                                        California
                                     amongst the rest several Musicians including 4 or 5 violinists, a
                                    French Horn player a flute and Clarionet. The 1st day of our journey was beautifull
                                    and Cloudless—untill Evening when the weather thickened up threatening
                                    rain There is one unfortunate circumstance connected with our Boat though one of the
                                    finest on the Missouri River and that is the absence of Lady
                                    passengers of whom we have not a solitary one to shed a preserving influence upon us
                                    and I am fearful on that account that some accident will occur before we reach the
                                    end of our journey. The weather continued cloudy during the whole of April 2nd and
                                    at sundown it commenced raining We have had very difficult and cautious navigation
                                    struck several sand Bars during our journey and at one time with so much force as to
                                    throw down some 10 or 15 mules—of which there is some 50 on board
                                    including 4 of mine. Reached Miami about 10 O'clock and landed freight by
                                    torchlight.
                        April 3d Morning rainy and cold-obliged to lay by during the previous night on
                                    account of the darkness although there is a fine moon-reached Carrolton landing 1/2
                                    past 6 AM. Found there the steamer Saluda tied up to the Bank with a broken shaft.
                                    Beautifull prairie country, arrived at Waverly at 3/4 O clock passd steamer 
                                        Kansas
                                     turning out from the latter place. arrived at 
                                        Dover
                                     Landing at 1/2 past 10. Some 8 or 10 miles above the last place, on the
                                    opposite side of the river We landed and took on board one of the 
                                        Bellevill
                                    
                                    
                                        California
                                     Waggons with J. Sargent and others in charge. This was a very pleasant
                                    meeting for me though the accident was unfortunate for them. They had broken their
                                    waggon so that they could not travel with it, and had sent their Mules forward in
                                    charge of some of their Company. The steamer 
                                        Sacramento
                                     passd us at this place on her way to St Louis, arrived at 
                                        Lexington
                                     at 1 1/2 past 12. Steamer Dahcotah in sight which left St Louis 48
                                    hours before us. Pass'd her 3/4 of a mile above 
                                        Lexington
                                     discharging freight. Stoppd the afternoon of the third at 
                                        Camden
                                     a small settlement above 
                                        Lexington
                                     to land way freight. Our Musicians took advantage of our stay to give
                                    us a concert and such a scraping of violins, 
                                    braying of Horns, breathing of flutes, mixed up with the voices of some 1/2 dozen
                                    vocalists of most discordant tone, together with the braying of mules Barking of
                                    Dogs and the swearing of our Mate who is a most ferocious fellow, was perhaps never
                                    heard before. We have passd during the day immense flocks of Wild Geese feeding on
                                    the Sand Bars also flocks of ducks and Pelicans which have furnishd our marksmen
                                    with some employment. Talking of Geese reminds me that we have a large quantity of
                                    them on board and those of the greenest kind. There is a party of New Yorkers on
                                    board dressed in uniform of Blue Cassimere, armed with Government Rifles Bowie
                                    Knives and Colts Revolvers who are the most lackadaisycal Milk and Waterish fellows
                                    I ever saw. they are in fact to use the words of M. Morrison, as green as a pumpkin
                                    vine From their appearance one would suppose they had never seen more of the world
                                    than can be seen from behind the counter of a paltry Dry Goods or Thread and Needle
                                    Store and their ridiculous affectation of Military Style and Etiquette joined to
                                    their egregious vanity, Hoggishness of Manners and evident high estimation of
                                    themselves to the exclusion of all others exposes them to the ridicule of all and
                                    almost tempts me to deny my Country. It is my private opinion that before they
                                    arrive at their destination they will be perfectly well acquainted with the
                                    "Elephant." This Evening about 1/2 past 6 we ran upon a Sand Bar
                                    and lay aground all night in a very bad position— a very Stormy night,
                                    rainy Cold and boisterous.
                        Morning of the 4th [April]. Still hard aground The steamer Dahcotah passed us the
                                    Evening before some 3 hours after we struck. 9. O'clock steamer St Ango
                                    passd us on her way to St Louis. Our Hay for the Mules has been nearly all stolen
                                    during yesterday and last night and should we remain here long they will have
                                    nothing to Eat. We are now about 30 miles from Independence and I hope may get off
                                    soon enough to procure a fresh supply at that place Had not my Hay been stolen I
                                    should have had sufficient and to spare after my arrival at St Joseph. Lost my Hat
                                    overboard this morning the wind blew it off my head some 50 yards into the river.
                                    The wind yet blows quite fresh but the clouds have dispersed and the sun begins to
                                    impart some warmth. The Trees in the River Bottoms begin to show some signs of
                                    vegetation and in  some places the grass looks
                                    quite green though should the weather continue as cold as at present it cannot grow
                                    much. Our position at present furnishes me with some Experience of the pleasures of
                                    Steamboat navigation on the Missouri River and I must confess
                                    they are neither very inviting nor agreeable. We lie across the current at the head
                                    of a Sand Bar the water 6 feet deep on one side and 3 inches on the other, the
                                    current rushing by us like a Mill Race and a strong wind blowing us farther on. We
                                    are nearly out of fuel so that our Engines are useless to us and our only hope rests
                                    in our stream anchor which our Mate with his crew are at present engaged in carrying
                                    out. The crew have worked hard all night Sparring and trying to work off but without
                                    success. and all this has happen'd to us because there are no Ladies on
                                    Board. This afternoon just as the crew arrived with a yawl load of wood we slid off
                                    the Bar and parted our Hawser attached to the anchor We drifted about a mile below
                                    before the other anchor was let go. in fact our slipping off the Bar took the
                                    officers of the Boat completely by surprise. The Captain and First Pilot did not
                                    Know we were off untill we were drifting down the River and the Engineer at the time
                                    had a part of his Engines to pieces. We had no fire in the furnaces and no
                                    preparations made for getting under weigh. In a few moments however, we raised steam
                                    and after getting our anchors proceeded to the first House on the Bank of the River
                                    where we landed and collected a quantity of fence rails for fuel. This was about 1/2
                                    past 4, so that we were detained on the Bar about 22 hours. an hour after we arrived
                                    at Sibly a small town and landed freight— 10. O'clock same night
                                    landed at Liberty six miles below Independence and as we had to discharge freight
                                    there, the Engineer determined to clean out the Boilers. This detained us some 4
                                    hours so that we did not reach Independence till 1/2 past 3. Found Jacob Rapelye and
                                    Co at that place and a great many Californians in the vicinity camping in places all
                                    over the surrounding country. Independence is 3 miles from the river, but the
                                    landing goes by the same name. Left the landing about 7. O'clock and
                                    arrived at 
                                        Kansas
                                     landing at 9.3 Here we got rid of our Blue
                                    Cassimere friends from 
                                        New York
                                     and I for one must confess I never parted with the 
                              
                                 3
                                            
                                                Kansas
                                             Landing ultimately became 
                                                Kansas City
                                            . At this time the vicinity was also referred to as 
                                                Westport
                                             or 
                                                Westport
                                             Landing.
                           
                                     society of any one with less regret. Their
                                    assumption of military dignity joined to their native puppyism made me feel ashamed
                                    that they were Countrymen of Mine and exposed them to the ridicule of all. 1/2 past
                                    12 passd Parksville a snug little village on the right hand side of the river. Since
                                    leaving 
                                        Kansas
                                     the left side of the River is Indian Territory and the Country on both
                                    sides looks wild and deserted but is cover'd with magnificent timber and
                                    must be very fertile. Immense flocks of Geese cover the Sand Bars and as the Boat
                                    passes rise in clouds and with discordant cries fly on before us to the next Bar
                                    above. Our passengers are continually firing at them with their rifles but as yet
                                    but one Bird has been hit and left with a broken wing, solitary and alone on the
                                    desert Sand Bar. About 3 1/2 O clock we passd Fort 
                                        Leavenworth
                                    
                           4 which is a finely situated post and in accordance
                                    with everything belonging to Uncle Sam appears to be kept in fine order. It is on
                                    the left bank of the River and the landing is the finest natural wharf I ever saw
                                    being formed of Limestone, with deep water at the Base of the rock and faced
                                    perfectly square and perpendicular. The Buildings are numerous and spacious and in
                                    summer it must be a beautifull spot. Passd the steamer Dahcotah lying at the wharf.
                                    The steamer 
                                        Sacramento
                                     passd us in the morning on her way to St Louis. She had encountered a
                                    snag on her way up and torn off a portion of her guards. Six miles above the Fort we
                                    landed at a beautifull little town calld Weston, a really charming place and landed
                                    a small portion of freight. Found here the steamer Timour which left St Louis nearly
                                    a fortnight before us and has but just got here and discharged her freight. There
                                    are a number of very pretty houses in this place and apparently considerable
                                    business is transacte[d] There are several very extensive commission and forwarding
                                    Houses, together with stores and mechanics shops of all kinds and the street, the
                                    principal one is paved. Little Houses substantially built sit perched about among
                                    the Cliffs and present a beautifull appearance from the river. Laid up for the night
                                    about 15 miles above Weston the land at which we tied up belonging to the Kickapoo
                                    nation.
                        
                           
                              4 Fort 
                                            Leavenworth
                                         had been established by Colonel Henry Leavenworth in 1827.
                                        Periodically thereafter it assisted in the maintenance of the Santa Fe Trail. In
                                        1849 Fort 
                                            Leavenworth
                                         was shifting from its Mexican War duties to status as a military
                                        police station on the restless 
                                            Kansas
                                         frontier.
                        
                        
                        Friday Apl 6th. This Morning as I lay in my berth I was awakend by the cry of some
                                    person to "put out the fires quick". As I heard no sound of steam
                                    I was convinced there could be no danger from that cause and I laid still for some
                                    1/2 hour longer. Upon getting up I found there had been a hole burnt through one of
                                    the Boilers—the result of negligence on the part of the Engineer, and
                                    which will detain us here 2 or 3 days unless some Boat should pass by on which we
                                    may procure passage. This is most unfortunate as the provender for my Mules is just
                                    gone and there is none to be procured near us unless we feed them on Cottonwood Bark
                                    of which there is plenty and which it is said they will eat rather than starve. Took
                                    a walk over the Cliffs after Breakfast, and discover'd the wigwam of an
                                    Indian pleasantly situated in a little valley at which we stoppd and procured about
                                    1 1/2 Bushels Corn, shelld which Cost us $1.00. The sides of the wigwam
                                    were formed of Matting made of rushes and the roof was covered with large peices
                                        [sic] of Bark piled over each other there were 2. or 3 squaws
                                    and a number of children there and they all appeard quite shy and somewhat
                                    displeased at our intrusion on their domain. The word "Dollar"
                                    however which they all understood soon set matters right and the old Indian
                                    shouldered the sack of corn which we bought and accompanied us to the Boat. Finding
                                    our provender diserting us we had made efforts to procure some at all the landings,
                                    but neither Hay Corn or Oats Could we find except at 1 place where an old Man gave
                                    us a Bucketfull of Ears, and at 
                                        Kansas
                                     where "Mercure"5 procured 1/2
                                    Bushel of Ears for which he paid the very reasonable price of 2.00 per Bushel. Took
                                    a walk this afternoon to the summit of a Bluff near the river from which we had a
                                    very extensive view of the surrounding country. Here from the pinnacle of the Bluff
                                    at the base of which rushes the mighty 
                                        Missouri
                                     winding its tortuous course through the dreary wilderness, we look to
                                    the west and as far as the Eye can reach over a succession of hills and valleys
                                    forest and Mountains, and we cannot help feeling impressd with the wild and
                                    melancholy beauty of the scene. We are at this point over 800 miles from the mouth
                                    of the river and some idea of its magnitude may be 
                              
                                 5 "Mercure," Berrien's
                                            partner, is mentioned only briefly in the diary. As is implied later, the
                                            diarist had apparently made an arrangement of convenience, not of
                                            confidence.
                           
                                     formed when we consider that it is navigable
                                    for 2500 miles farther for Boats of the size and class of the one we are on at
                                    present. While I was at the Bluffs sitting at the foot of a tree a little Indian Boy
                                    came to me with a Bow and Arrow in his hand. I first discovered him at the foot of
                                    the hill no doubt attracted there to view the steamer. As soon as he saw me he came
                                    directly to me and with a smile on his features greeted me in Indian fashion. I
                                    tried to converse with him but could only make myself understood by signs In this
                                    manner I discoverd he was a member of the family whose wigwam I visited in the
                                    morning. He wandered about near me for some time practising with his arrows up on
                                    the woodpeckers on the neighboring trees At last he came and sat down near me
                                    motionless and silent. I had been writing in my memorandum Book and had fallen into
                                    a reverie, my mind was far away from the scene before me employd with the
                                    rememberances of other lands which though not possessing perhaps the same degree of
                                    Beauty and sublimity of scenery were still infinitely more endeared to me by early
                                    associations and cherished remenberances [sic], when the Indian
                                    boy touched me on the knee with his arrow and directed my attention to the river
                                    from the farthest distance of which I saw a steamer turning round a point and slowly
                                    stemming the turbid waters of the rushing 
                                        Missouri
                                     Shortly after the Bell of our Boat rang and I took my leave of the
                                    Indian Boy leaving him seated at the foot of a tree. The steamer in sight proved to
                                    be the Mary (we passd her the first night out from St Louis) and having no other
                                    resource we took passage on her, the Captain of our Boat shipping our freight and
                                    refunding our passage money in proportion to the distance travelled. We found this
                                    Boat too, very much crowded with Californians and of course being the last comers
                                    our accomodations were extremely poor. She is also a much slower Boat than the one
                                    we left not being able to make more than 4 miles an hour We travelld along slowly
                                    untill 10 O'clock when we stoppd at a woodyard and tied up for the night.
                        Apl 7th Resumed our journey about 4 O'clock the next morning and after very
                                    tedious and slow progress reached St Joseph at 1/2 past 4 in the afternoon. This is
                                    a very pretty place and contains some very beautifull and substantial houses built
                                    of Brick and considering that 5 years ago there was not  1/2 a dozen houses here its progress is beyond all
                                        conception.6 Commenced unloading our waggons immediately on
                                    our arrival but as they were distributed all over the vessel we made very slow
                                    progress and I did not succeed in landing my waggon untill after 12 at night. I
                                    stored my freight as soon as we landed and took my mules to a stable. I was obliged
                                    to stay on the wharf all night to guard my waggon my partner having deserted me
                                    early in the evening preferring his own comfort to a cheerless and uncomfortable
                                    watch on the shore. Next morning, obtained assistance from our 
                                        Belleville
                                     friends, harnessd our mules and drove to their camp about a mile from
                                    the landing. Saw Col Jarrot this morning. He was engaged in crossing his waggons
                                    over the river to a camp about 4 miles out on the opposite side. Since they have
                                    been here Jarrots Co have passd a law prohibiting the admission of any more persons
                                    in their Company without the consent of a majority of the members, so that before I
                                    can be admitted the company must meet and a vote be taken.7 I do
                                    not anticipate much opposition to our admission still I will try to prepare for the
                                    worst.
                        
                           
                                        
                                 6
                                            
                                                St. Joseph
                                             had originally been founded by the trader-trapper, Joseph
                                            Robidoux. It began as a fur trading post in 1803, the year of the momentous 
                                                Louisiana
                                             Purchase. Much later, after he had formally laid out plans for
                                            his city, Robidoux honored the site by naming it for his patron saint.
                                            Berrien arrived during the month when emigrant activity was at its peak. No
                                            sensible emigrant would plan on anything less than a four-month crossing,
                                            and to have departed from this advanced outfitting depot after the middle of
                                            May would have been courting disaster, for sometimes the deadly Sierra
                                            Nevada snowfall began in early September. Irene D. Paden, The
                                                Wake of the 
                                                    Prairie
                                                 Schooner (
                                                New York
                                            , 1943), 54.
                                        By 1849, 
                                                St. Joseph
                                             could claim more than "fifteen hundred inhabitants,
                                            eighteen stores, two pork-packing establishments, two steam sawmills, two
                                            flour mills, two 'mechanic shops,' three churches, two
                                            newspapers, several saloons, a courthouse, and a triweekly
                                            stage…." Walker D. W "The Outfitting
                                            Posts," Rushing for Gold, ed. John Walton Caughey (Pacific Coast
                                            Branch of the American Historical Association, Special
                                                Publication, No. 1; 
                                                Berkeley
                                             and 
                                                Los Angeles
                                            , Calif., 1949), 18.
                                    
                           
                                        
                                 7 The pre-gold-rush caravans had been composed of farmers
                                            with an eye on the rich soil of 
                                                Oregon
                                            . The Argonauts of '49, however, often included large
                                            numbers of mechanics and city-dwellers. The men would form themselves into a
                                            company not unlike a county militia company, elect a commander or
                                            "captain," and draw up rules providing for their common
                                            welfare. Sections from one such pact included:
                                        " ‘Whereas we are about to leave the frontier, and travel
                                            over Indian Territory, exposed to their treachery, and knowing their long
                                            and abiding hatred of the whites; also many other privations to meet with.
                                            We consider it necessary to form ourselves into a Company for
                                    
                        
                        
                        Apl 9th Spent the day in camp on the Banks of the Black Snake, a little stream that
                                    runs through the town. I busied myself in making Side Boards for my waggon and
                                    various other preparations for the trip. The Bellevillians with whom I am staying
                                    are very gentlemanly and kind and my first taste of camp life is very agreeable.
                                    Bacon fried and boiled Eggs Potatoes, Beans and Bean Soup Biscuit coffee and tea
                                    compose our fare and it is as good as any person can wish.
                        Apl 10 Still in camp made tent poles and pins this day and have but little more to do
                                    in the way of preparations During the night and the previous one it rained very hard
                                    but our double waggon cover resisted the wet weather admirably we sleep in our
                                    waggon and find it quite comfortable Apl 11th Are busy in making preparations to
                                    cross the river to join the Company on the other side but will not cross today as
                                    the river has risen six feet within the last 2 days and is dangerous to cross on
                                    account of the drift The Ferry Boat is an old flat Boat which the passengers have to
                                    row across themselves and is an unweildy and unmanageable affair. Wrote a letter
                                    home this day and put it in the post office I was unable to write home before
                                    leaving St Louis as I had but one day to prepare and perfect all my arrangements and
                                    my time has been so completely occupied up to this time that I have been constrained
                                    to defer writing untill now. I regret this the more as I had promised to write and
                                    in this case had intended to perform. This afternoon went to St Joseph and bought
                                    some few articles necessary for my journey, for which as usual here I paid
                                    extravagant prices. The St Joseph people act upon the principle of charging ex-
                                        
                              
                                            the purpose of protecting each other and our property, during our journey
                                                to 
                                                    California
                                                .
                                            
                                    Therefore Resolved, That there shall be one selected
                                                from the Company, suitable and capable to act as Captain or Leader.
                                            
                                    Resolved, That we, as men, pledge ourselves to assist
                                                each other through all the misfortunes that may befall us on our long
                                                and dangerous journey.
                                            
                                    Resolved, That the Christian Sabbath shall be observed,
                                                except when absolutely necessary to travel.
                                            
                                    Resolved, That there shall be a sufficient guard
                                                appointed each night regularly, by the Captain.
                                            
                                    Resolved, That in case of member's dying, the
                                                Company shall give him a decent burial." Quoted in Lorenzo
                                                Sawyer, Way Sketches: Containing Incidents of Travel Across
                                                    the Plains From 
                                                        St. Joseph
                                                     to 
                                                        California
                                                     in 1850 …, ed. Edward Eberstadt (
                                                    New York
                                                , 1926), 19n.
                                        
                           
                                     travagant rates for all the Emigrant requires
                                    being sensible they will not get another chance to take advantages of their
                                    necessities. No Emigrant having once experienced this as I have will ever again
                                    subject himself to their hospitality.8
                        
                        April 12th Commenced raining in the morning and continued to rain all day and nearly
                                    all night. busied myself in preparations for crossing the river. We purpose crossing
                                    at the upper Ferry about 4 miles above St Joseph. The river is quite narrow at that
                                    place and there are eddies on both sides so that it is quite easy to land, rained
                                    very hard during this night, and very uncomfortable in Camp.
                        13th Apl. Harness'd up our mules this morning and drove to the landing to
                                    get my provisions which were left in store at that place. one of my Mules is a wild
                                    stubborn little fellow who has never been broken and I have had some difficulty in
                                    putting him in harness but by the aid of a nose stick I have succeeded in cooling
                                    him down pretty well and I think he will prove to be as good a mule as I have. For
                                    the information of those who do not know what a nose stick is I will here state that
                                    it is nothing more than a short stick with a peice of rope spliced in one end. The
                                    loop of the rope is to be placed round the upper lip of the animal and by the aid of
                                    the stick twisted tight. By means of this simple instrument no matter how vicious or
                                    stubborn they may be [they] are easily conquered and made perfectly gentle. You can
                                    hold the most stubborn and fiery mule perfectly still with one hand and after the
                                    first struggle may handle every limb of their body rub them all over and crawl under
                                    their belly if you choose without their daring to lift a foot. I was perfectly
                                    astonished at the power of this instrument and wish that the knowledge of its power
                                    was generally known. After getting our provisions in the waggon I started for the
                                    upper ferry whither our 
                                        Belleville
                                     friends had already gone but about a quarter of a mile out of town I
                                    stuck in a mud hole and had to procure a yoke of cattle to draw us out. I was
                                    driving but 2 
                              
                                 8 Emigrant Berrien had only just begun to encounter
                                            the results of high demand and short supply. Word of the high prices which
                                            the merchants asked for "good American mules" may well
                                            have caused Berrien to assume the troublesome burden of hauling his own
                                            mules from 
                                                St. Louis
                                            . Walker D. Wyman (ed.), 
                                    
                                                    California
                                                 Emigrant Letters (
                                                New York
                                            , 1952), 34-35.
                           
                                     mules at the time as I wish'd to cool
                                    down my fiery little mule with a heavy load and get him well broke to his harness.
                                    The road was very bad however owing to the rain of the night previous so after
                                    getting out of our mud hole I put the 2 other mules before which made our team more
                                    than sufficient for any obstacles we were likely to encounter and we drove along in
                                    fine style soon overtaking our friends who had upwards of 3/4 of an hour the start
                                    of us. We arrived at the Ferry about 3 O'clock but as there were some teams
                                    before us we could not cross untill next day so we campd on the bank of the river
                                    for the night. I fortunately had some 2 Bushels of corn with me so I gave my mules a
                                    good supper and after getting my own we wrappd ourselves in our blankets and turned
                                    in for the night. A cold piercing frosty wind was blowing from the north and we
                                    slept very uncomfortably in our waggon.
                        Apl 14th on getting up in the morning we found ice in our Bucket 1/2 an inch thick
                                    which is rather a poor prospect for early grass. After getting our Breakfast we
                                    commenced crossing the [Missouri] river and succeeded in
                                    getting our waggons and teams over about 10 o clock9 after which
                                    we were obliged to cut our way through the woods about 2 1/2 miles to the camp of
                                    Col Jarrot10 at the foot of the Bluffs We arrived at camp about
                                    3 O'clock in the afternoon and after greeting the company assembled there
                                    we proceeded to unharness the mules and picket them out for the night. We are now in
                                    the Indian territory but we see very few of them 
                              
                                 9 So heavy had the westbound traffic become by the
                                            late spring of '49 that bottlenecks occurred at most river
                                            crossings. At 
                                                    St. Joseph
                                                
                                 , wagons often waited several days, notwithstanding the
                                            fact that four ferries were operated in the vicinity. These craft were
                                            supplemented by steamboats which on occasion would serve as a ferry for a
                                            fee of $5.00 to $10.00 per wagon. By the middle of
                                            May, 2,850 wagons had paid ferriage at 
                                                St. Joseph
                                            ; above the town another 1,500 had crossed. Wyman,
                                            "Outfitting Posts," Rushing for Gold,
                                            ed. Caughey, 20.
                              
                                 10 Since most of the wagon trains were identified by
                                            the name of the captain, Berrien's associates would be considered
                                            as members of the Jarrot Company. The duties of the captain were to direct
                                            the order of march, to set the starting and halting time, to select the
                                            evening camp site, detail night guards, and generally to adjudicate any
                                            company controversy. Rules governing the organization often contained a
                                            proviso specifying that the undersigned would "bind himself to
                                            abide in all cases by the orders and decisions of the captain." A
                                            captain might have such support in writing, but if by his poor judgment he
                                            lost the confidence of company members, a new captain might be chosen to
                                            replace him.
                           
                                     though the remains of some twenty wigwams and
                                    about the same number of graves scattered here and there along the banks of the
                                    little creek on which we are encamp'd show that they have lived here at
                                    some period during the last summer in some numbers. Our camp is pleasantly situated
                                    and there is very fair pasturage for our mules along the banks of the little creek
                                    which runs through it. The weather is so cold however that grass cannot grow on the
                                    plains and unless we carry grain it is useless to think of starting at present.
                        April 15 Sunday was a very pleasant day though the night previous was intensely cold,
                                    ice freezing in our Bucket nearly 3/4 of an inch thick. Pitched our tent last night
                                    for the first time and cooked our first meal, previous to this time we have been
                                    messing with our 
                                        Belleville
                                     friends who have attended to the cooking department we furnishing our
                                    quota of provisions. There is some difficulty in regard to our joining the company
                                    of Col Jarrot and Mr Green of the 
                                        Belleville
                                     Company informed me that the principal opposition proceeded from John
                                    Christy who it appears owes me some ill will from the fact of my not agreeing to
                                    admit him into my company when I first thought of going to 
                                        California
                                    . For my decision however as regards himself he is alone to blame. I
                                    should have been glad to have had him with me had he not urged me to extravagant and
                                    unneccessary expense in my outfit, expense and responsibility which I could not
                                    incur and I am the more astonish'd at his opposition to me as I have never
                                    given him cause to be affronted or farther than I have related above laid a straw in
                                    his way. I should not be surprised however if his opposition at some day recoils
                                    upon his own head. I am glad always at having the opportunity of reading peoples
                                    Characters and in this case I think I have done so at very little cost to myself.
                                    The Company will probably leave here in the course of a few days previous to which
                                    there will be a general meeting for the Election of officers and if the question of
                                    my admission is then put to vote perhaps he may find I have as many friends as
                                    himself. The better portion of the company are beyond Christys influence, and Col
                                    Jarrot being an old acquaintance of mine I do not dispair of being able to carry my
                                    point. Should we not be admitted however, they cannot carry the road with them and I
                                    think from the  lightness of my waggon and the
                                    superiority of my mules, I shall easily be able to keep up with them or even to
                                    outstrip them should should [sic] I think it proper or necessary
                                    to do so.
                        Apl 16th. Spent this day principally in camp writing letters and bringing up my
                                    journal to date. The weather was quite warm this day and the sun shone brightly but
                                    towards evening the sky became overcast and about 7 O'clock it commenced
                                    raining. The company talk of breaking up camp and starting for the Little
                                        Blue River Bottom the day after tomorrow, about 3 days journey.
                                    Remained Encamp'd at the same place untill Thursday morning, nothing worthy
                                    of remark transpiring with the exception of my being admitted as a member of the
                                    company through the influence of Col Jarrot. Tuesday morning went to St Joseph and
                                    procured a few necessaries. Wednesday, spent in camp preparing to start the next
                                    day. Thursday after striking our tents and harnessing our mules we bade adieu to our
                                    camp and started on our journey, our course lay over very broken country nearly
                                    destitute of timber except in some of the water courses and ravines washed by the
                                    rains. The road however with some few exceptions, was excellent, but we had some
                                    steep hills to ascend and as we could not all prepare to leave camp at the same time
                                    and after getting under motion were detained several hours waiting for some of the
                                    heaviest waggons of the Company we made but small progress, about 15 miles.11 Camp'd by the side of a little brook running through
                                    a ravine and picketed our mules, at nightfall we brought all our mules into camp and
                                    fastened them to our waggons and having organized a guard to watch the camp we
                                    retired for the night. The Evening was quite cold and next morning the ground was
                                    coverd with frost. Friday commenced our journey at 1/2 past 6. Nothing worthy of
                                    remark occurring untill we reached the banks of Wolf Creek in crossing which our
                                    foremost team stalld, after working some time to get it out of the mud we all
                                    commenced cutting brush to mend the road and after some 3 hours labour succeeded in
                                    crossing all our waggons not without some difficulty however and some danger to the
                                    mules. Found here several families of the Sac Indians Encamp'd by the Creek
                                    Before we arrived at 
                              
                                 11 Fifteen to twenty miles a day was an average rate
                                            of progress.
                           
                                     this place some of our foremost horsemen had
                                    their horses stolen by the Indians. They had turned them out to graze and while
                                    their Backs were turned the Indians stole upon them and rode them off. They were
                                    recoverd however by a nephew of Col Jarrot who rode after them and bursted the cap
                                    of a pistol at one of the Indians. Camp'd on the opposite side of the Creek
                                    no other camping ground being within 20 miles.12 Stood guard
                                    this night for the first time, during the night the Indians had a regular pow wow
                                    and kept up a constant howling and screeching for several hours.
                        Saturday Apl 21st, made a start about 7 'o clock and travel ld untill 4,
                                    nothing worthy of remark during the day except the running away of my team which
                                    however I succeeded in stopping after they had run about 3/4 of a mile. Campd in the
                                    middle of the prairie and were obliged to go some y& of a mile for water and
                                    no timber in sight The night was rainy and uncomfortable. Several Indians were near
                                    us during the night watching for plunder
                        Sunday [April] the 22 made an early start this morning. My mules got loose during the
                                    night and I was detained in catching them so I was obliged to start without my
                                    breakfast, travelld till 4 O'clock and camp'd on the edge of a
                                    small water course where there was plenty of old grass and sufficent wood for our
                                    fires. From the computations made by our officers we are now over 50 miles from the 
                                        Missouri
                                     and some 25 from the Blue River our place of
                                    destination. We are now getting into the Indian Country where there is some danger
                                    and we are obliged to be very cautious and bring our mules into camp at sundown. We
                                    have seen but 2 or 3 of them as yet on the road but we are told they are in the
                                    country in some numbers
                        Monday Apl 23d Made an early start this morning. Weather unpleasant and cold with a
                                    strong north west wind. We calculated to reach the Blue this day and we drove faster
                                    than usual in order to do so before night. We were disappointed however in our
                                    expectations and were obliged to camp 
                              
                                 12 It was standard practice for every wagon train to
                                            form a circle at night and drive the stock inside after it had been fed.
                                            Wagons which had led the file one day (and so escaped the dust) dropped back
                                            to the end on the next day and worked forward accordingly. Jesse Applegate,
                                                A Day with the Cow Column (
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1934), 5-17.
                           
                                     in the open prairie near some water holes but 2
                                    1/2 miles distant from any timber. Some of the party brought in a few branches on
                                    their mules and we made shift with them and what few weeds and wild sage roots we
                                    could gather to boil our coffee. The night was very cold and the Guard
                                    suffer'd extremely from the Weathe[r]
                        Apl 24th Got in motion about 1/2 past 5, the weather getting warmer as the sun rose
                                    and as the day advanced becoming quite pleasant. Reached the Blue
                                    River about 10 '0 clock and commenced crossing our waggons, this
                                    was soon accomplished as the River was quite low and at the ford not more than eight
                                    inches deep. The Banks were very steep however and we were obliged to let the
                                    waggons down with ropes. Camp'd on the opposite side and turned our mules
                                    out to grass. The pasturage is far from being good owing to the very unusually cold
                                    and backward weather and we shall probably be obliged to stay here some time there
                                    not being sufficient grass to warrant us in extending our journey any farther. The
                                    Country appears to be entirely deserted, no sign of Indians having been here this
                                    spring, though the frames of their wigwams stand about in every direction though not
                                    in great numbers, showing that they make this country their residence during some
                                    portion of the year. A most beautifull country here-sufficiently rolling to give
                                    variety to the scenery, and the green hillsides, and the river bottoms looking like
                                    vast cultivated meadows with a soil of unsurpassed fertility, but nearly destitute
                                    of timber except immediately on the banks of the streams owing to the grass being
                                    burnt every spring by the Indians which prevents the young trees from starting and
                                    kills those which have. There is but little water in the country and the streams are
                                    few and far between. Captain Lafferty one of our Company brought in several fine
                                    Buffalo fish this afternoon which he shot in a small lake about a mile from camp and
                                    we had a fish supper. Night chilly and cold.
                        Wednesday Apl 25th. Moved our camp this morning about a mile to a more convenient
                                    place, after which we spent the day in attending to camp duties and in digging a
                                    ditch to drain the small lake mentioned before in order to procure more fish. The
                                    weathe[r] was very pleasant this day though before night the sun became obscured and
                                    we had every indication of rain.
                        
                        Thursday [April] 26th Still in camp waiting for Doctor Linsky a gentleman who we were
                                    compelld to leave behind at St Joseph and whom we promised to wait for here. About 9
                                    o clock quite an excitement was occasion'd in camp by the appearance of
                                    some horsemen approaching us from the west who from their appearance we supposed to
                                    be Indians. The company assembled rifles in hand but we were agreeably disappointed
                                    when the strangers approached us to find they were white men. They proved to be a
                                    party of trappers from Fort Laramie who were journeying to St Joseph with
                                    dispatches. Their arrival furnish'd us with an opportunity of writing a few
                                    lines to our friends in the States, an opportunity which I immediately took
                                    advantage of, and they left us with a general assortment of letters for the Post
                                    office. They gave us a small quantity of fresh Buffalo meat which they killed 15
                                    miles west of the Blue River. We were very much mistaken when
                                    we gave the name of Blue River to the stream on which we are at
                                    present encamp'd. The Blue River so the trappers tell
                                    us is forty miles distant and this stream near us is calld the Nemahaw
                                        [Nemaha River]. I do not know whether I spell it right but
                                    so it is pronounced. This evening 2 ox and 1 mule team arrived from St Joseph. They
                                    informed us that Doctor Linsky was on the road and we determined to wait 1 more Day
                                    for him.
                        Friday [April 27]. The 3 waggons left this morning for the Blue spent the day in
                                    preparations for the next days journey. The weather during the day time is quite
                                    pleasant but the nights are cold and very disagreeable. The grass grows but slowly
                                    thoug[h] the hill sides begin to look green and resemble at present beautiful meadow
                                    land. Quantities of Hop vines are found in some places Gooseberrys Wild Plum
                                    Raspberrys and some very beautifull spring flowers which would be an ornament to any
                                    garden but which I have never seen in one, are found in all directions There are
                                    great quantities of venemous reptiles here and in some places the ground is
                                    perforated with snake holes, principally Rattlesnakes of which we kill a number
                                    every day This Evening 7 more waggons arrived from St Jo They informed us that
                                    Doctor Linsky got as far as Wolf Creek where he broke an axletree and was compelld
                                    to return for repairs. We accordingly decided not to wait but to proceed immediately
                                    for the Blue.
                        
                        Saturday [April] 28th Broke up camp very early in the morning & proceeded on
                                    our journey Drove pretty rapidly untill 3 o clock untill we arrived at the place
                                    where the 3 waggons spoken of before had camp'd the night previous. Here we
                                    determined to camp also and accordingly did so on the banks of a small creek.
                                    travell'd about 20 miles. Determined to start very early on the morrow in
                                    order to make the Blue in good season
                        Sunday [April] 29th a cold and disagreeable morning, waked up the camp at 4 o clock
                                    and we were soon busy in preparations for an early start. About 1/2 past 4 as I was
                                    standing by my fire boiling some coffee I heard the report of a gun very near me it
                                    appearing to be but the other side of a waggon about 8 paces distant. Simultaneous
                                    with the report I heard some one exclaim "Sacre" "Oh mon
                                    Dieu" and immediately afterwards the body of a man projected itself from
                                    the back part of the waggon and fell with a heavy squelch to the ground I
                                    immediately exclaimed "Theres a dead man" and ran to the spot
                                    where a number had already collected. It proved to be a young Frenchman Nicholas
                                    Boismenue by name who drove a team for Col Jarrot. He had crawled into the back part
                                    of his waggon and finding his gun there had attempted to draw it towards him with
                                    the muzzle directed towards his Breast something coming in contact with the lock
                                    raised the hasp which coming down on the cap exploded the gun the contents of which
                                    he received in his Breast ranging downwards towards his hip and causing his death
                                    almost instantly. From the time of the report being heard until we collected around
                                    his body was scarce a moment but when I looked in his face his jaw had fallen and no
                                    sign of life could be perceived. This sudden and shocking accident detained us some
                                    hours and cast a gloom over the whole company. We determined to take the Corpse with
                                    us to the Blue and bury it there and accordingly about 6 o clock we started on our
                                    journey We reached the Blue Rive13 about 4 o clock in the
                                    afternoon and proceeded to dig a grave but did not complete it at sundown. The 3
                                    Waggons first mentiond succeeded in crossing the river about 2 hours before we came
                                        
                              
                                 13 The Big Blue (originally the Blue Earth
                                                River) is an affluent of the 
                                                Kansas
                                            . It rises in 
                                                Nebraska
                                             and runs in a southwestern direction into 
                                                Kansas
                                            . The route from 
                                                St. Joseph
                                             crossed the stream near the present site of 
                                                Marysville
                                            , 
                                                Kansas
                                            , Sawyer, Way Sketches, 25n.
                           
                                     up. It being late however when we arrived we
                                    did not attempt to cross but encampd on the near side of the river. The weather
                                    during the morning had been chilly and cold but the afternoon was warm and the wind
                                    blew from the south west quite fresh while in the north large masses of clouds were
                                    collected and the lightning was seen to gleam every few minutes leading us to expect
                                    a shower. The wind during the night increased to a gale and shifted to the north,
                                    becoming intensely cold and Blowing down tents and waggon covers in our camp in all
                                    directions. We had no rain however but we passed a very uncomfortable night. The 7
                                    waggons noticed before came up with us about 10 o clock in the evening and crossed
                                    the river during the night, there being a fine moon and as light as day. They are a
                                    company from 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     and are driving energetic fellows. The Captain of the company is said
                                    to have accompanied Bryant in his journey to that country in 1846.
                        Monday April 30th The wind continued to blow hard and very cold untill 12 o clock
                                    when it gradually died away and the sun shone out bright and warm. We buried our
                                    unfortunate companion about 10 o clock and then prepared to cross the river I took
                                    some short pieces of wood and laid them across my waggon Bed piling my boxes on the
                                    top of them and thus carrying my load over perfectly safe and dry. While we were
                                    crossing some Eighteen or twenty ox waggons arrived at the ford and commenced
                                    crossing They all succeeded in getting over before night and camp'd near
                                    us. The 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     waggons left this afternoon and there is one or two companies ahead of
                                    us on the Independence Road.
                        May 1st. The wind as usual commenced blowing again before day and was very cold. We
                                    are obliged to stay here 1 Day to cut the tire of one of our Waggons and repair the
                                    tongue of another. We have Blacksmiths tools and Bellows with us and we have burnt
                                    sufficient charcoal since we have been here to last for all the probable exigencies
                                    of the trip. I forgot to mention that Doctor Linsky came up with us yesterday, and
                                    our company is now complete, one waggon has left us since we have been here being
                                    dissatisfied with our rate of travel. Some 3 or 4 ox teams and 5 or 6 six and 4
                                    horse teams arrived today, succeeded in crossing and the  most of them have gone on. It is very necessary in my
                                    opinion not to let many more pass us but to make an effort to be among the first.
                                    The tide of emigration flowing across the plains this season will be like the
                                    descent of the locusts in 
                                        Egypt
                                     consuming every green thing and those who come last will fare but
                                    badly. Several more waggons arrived at the Blue just at night and in attempting to
                                    cross one of them was broken and left in the River all night.
                        Wednesday May 2nd Broke up camp and left about 6 in the morning, travelld till 4
                                    passing the junction of our road with the Independence road about 10. Nothing worthy
                                    of remark Grass scarce and backward. Weather cold and disagreeable.
                        May 3d. Left camp at 5 and at 1/2 past 7 arrived at a small creek (called Wyeths
                                    Creek) on the opposite side of which we found 7 or 8 of the Ox Waggons which passed
                                    us some days before just leaving their camp. After watering our teams we drove on
                                    till 12 when we determined to rest our mules and turn them out to graze. At 2
                                    resumed our trip and kept on till 14 past 4. Appearance of rain, high wind and very
                                    cold, heavy rain during the night, all nearly froze
                        Friday [May] 4th Morning very cold made an early start and passed the ox teams spoken
                                    of before Passed several creeks or water courses one of which is called the Big
                                    Sandy, there was but little water in any of them, though in a rainy time they no
                                    doubt are respectable streams. Campd on the Banks of one of them Weather cloudy and
                                    damp and changing in a moment from hot to cold, in fact the most variable weather I
                                    ever met with.
                        Saturday May 5th. Started early and travelld till 11, turned our mules out to graze
                                    in the Blue River Valley which we reached about 9, remained 3
                                    hours and started again. Just ahead of us came upon the Horse teams which passd us
                                    at the Big Blue River just turning out from camp Drove on till
                                    4 and campd close by the River which is a beautifull stream of fine water but the
                                    soil of the country in the vicinity is poor, compared to that through which we have
                                    been travelling. Found here great flocks of Plovers which we killd in great  numbers. Found on my arrival at camp I had been
                                    driving my waggon without a linch pin in one of the hind wheels. Rather a hazardous
                                    affair. Fortunately I had an extra sett. Appearance of Rain during the night.
                                    Scenery very pleasing though not very romantic Trees are very scarce none being
                                    found except on the margin of the stream. We find great quantities of Buffalo Bones
                                    and Elk Horns scattred over the Plains, the relics of the at one time undisputed
                                    possessors of this vast country, they make their appearance here still but are not
                                    found in any numbers untill we reach the Valley of the Platte
                                    River. Found great quantities of Rose Bushes and Wild garlic or Chives
                                    growing in this valley. I took the opportunity of making several fine salads of the
                                    latter which were very excellent.
                        Sunday [May] 6th. Started at 4, and driving on pretty rapidly we came up with and
                                    passd the camp of Ox Waggons from 
                                        Iowa
                                    , 19 in number. Shortly after they passd us while we were nooning and we
                                    did not overtake them again. We drive very slow and I am very much dissatisfied with
                                    our progress. Grass is very poor as yet however and perhaps it is best to be
                                    cautious. Campd at 3 O clock on the bank of the river at a beautifull spot and spent
                                    the remainder of the day in an appropriate manner. Had a slight shower during the
                                    night sufficient to lay the dust.
                        Monday [May] 7th. Rose at 4 and started on In about an hour we passd the large train
                                    of ox waggons 19 in number mentioned before which during the night had been
                                    increased by the addition of 4 waggons making them number 23. They were taking their
                                    Breakfast and their Oxen were scattered for 3 miles over the Bottom. Our appearance
                                    hurried them a little and they commenced catching up and yoking their teams and soon
                                    started on. They hold their own with us remarkably well but some of our teams are
                                    very heavily loaded and we do not drive much more than 2 miles per hour. About 9 we
                                    stoppd for Breakfast when the Oxen came up and passd us but they turned out shortly
                                    after and we passd them in turn. Shortly after we left the valley of the
                                    "Little Blue River" and struck across the
                                    country for the Platte some 20 miles distant We drove on till 5 and campd by the
                                    side of a very shallow lake on the top of a ridge where the water grass grew in
                                    great plenty and the water not being 8 inches deep the mules  soon filld themselves. We found the mosquitoes very
                                    troublesome during the night. During the afternoon we met with a party of Indians
                                    some 25 in number mostly women and children not more than 7 or 8 being men. They
                                    pretended to be nearly starving and we furnishd them with a small quantity of
                                    provisions Their Chief could speak a few words of our language and gave us to under
                                    stand that he with the aid of our provisions would be able to make a good supper and
                                    sleep that night, but notwithstanding this we thought it proper to be unusually
                                    strict on guard as they are great theives and seldom let an opportunity to steal
                                    pass unimproved.
                        Tuesday [May] 8 Started at 4 and after driving a few miles came in sight of the low
                                    sand Hills which skirt the valley of the Platte River. We
                                    reached the Hills about 9 and shortly after the valley opened to our view. at 11, we
                                    reachd the River Bank and turning out our mules we got our Breakfast and dinner at
                                    the same time There is an immense Island in the river at the point at which we
                                    struck it called Grand Island at or opposite the upper end of which there is a
                                    military post called Fort Kearney or Fort Childs. I could not find out which was the
                                    right name but it is either the one or the other of the above.14
                                    This River though very long and wide is not navigable, the channel being a perfect
                                    bed of moving quicksand and though in some places nearly 2 miles wide the water is
                                    but from 6 inches to 2 feet in depth. In the afternoon we arrived within 4 miles of
                                    the Fort and campd for the night. Some of our men went fishing with a net in a
                                    little Brook which runs into the river at this place and caught some very fine fish.
                                    There is no timber on this side of the Platte river and we were
                                    obliged to use Buffalo Chips (of which there is great quantities)15 and what little drift 
                              
                                 14 In 1846 an act of Congress had directed the
                                            establishment of this fort for the protection of 
                                                Oregon
                                             emigrants. The actual military post was not created until 1848,
                                            at which time it was named after Brigadier General Thomas Childs. By order
                                            of the government, however, its name was changed to Fort Kearney, in honor
                                            of Stephen Watts Kearny, of Mexican War fame. The early misspelling is now
                                            statutory. Paden, Wake of the 
                                                    Prairie
                                                 Schooner, 83-84. For an excellent summary of this
                                            fort's role in the gold rush, see Lyle E. Mantor's
                                            "Fort Kearny and the Westward Movement," 
                                    
                                                    Nebraska
                                                 History, XXIX (September, 1948), 175-207.
                              
                                 15
                                            Bois de vache, or buffalo chips, furnished a good fire,
                                            and the smell released in its combustion was not repulsive. David Rohrer
                                            Leeper, The Argonauts of 'Forty-nine: Some
                                                Recollections of the Plains and the Diggings (Reprint, 
                                                Columbus
                                            , O., 1950), 18.
                           
                                     wood we could find on the Banks for fuel. On
                                    the opposite side of the river there is considerable timber as also on some of the
                                    many Islands in the river. The soil of the Platte Valley is
                                    quite sandy and not very good but it is coverd in summer with fine grass, furnishing
                                    excellent food for the Buffalo which in some parts of the Valley are very
                                    plentifull. We have seen none as yet owing no doubt to the poorness of the grass.
                                    The ground however is coverd with their Bones showing that they in former times made
                                    this valley their head quarters. Thus far we have killd no game tho we have seen
                                    several Elk and herds of Antelopes ar[e] seen every day. These last however are so
                                    very fleet and shy that they are seldom killd. They distance in a moment the fastest
                                    greyhound and as there is no timber a person can seldom approach within gunshot.
                        Wednesday [May] 9th Started about 8 in the morning and soon arrived at the fort where
                                    we stoppd and purchased a few necessaries, flour, and provisions The Fort is
                                    principally built of sods cut from the surface of the valley and most of the
                                    Buildings are of the same materiel As we approached the fort we met 2 Draggoons who
                                    had just left with the mail. This furnishd an opportunity to some of our company of
                                    sending letters home but I had not time to take advantage of the opportunity.
                                    Continued our journey about 15 miles above the fort and campd for the night. This
                                    place is 250 miles from St Joseph—From St Joseph to Big Blue
                                        River 138 miles. From Big to Little Blue 40 do From Little Blue to
                                    the point at which we leave its valley 45 do From thence to Fort Kearney 27, total
                                    250. Had a heavy thunder shower during this night. We learned from the garrison at
                                    the fort that there are some 50 teams ahead of us on the road, the first teams passd
                                    3 days before us.
                        Thursday [May] 10th. At sunrise this morning we discoverd the Ox teams we passd on
                                    the Blue campd on the bank of the river 2 miles below us. There are 2 companies of
                                    them 10 in one and 23 in the other which together with our 13 and 54 before us make
                                    the number of waggons we know of in the valley at present 100. Started at 8 and
                                    continued our journey not much occurring worthy of remark. Found the skeleton of a
                                    man on the plain a short distance from the road,  but whether white man or Indian we were not scientific enough to determine. The
                                    skull had evidently been fractured. Col Jarrot went on a hunt and returned in the
                                    afternoon with an Antelope which he was fortunate enough to kill, he saw no Buffalo
                                    however we campd at 4 having travelld some 20 miles. Col Jarrots heavy teams are
                                    beginning to fail and I am more and more dissatisfied with our progress. My team
                                    however is perfectly fresh and capable of performing as much now as at any time
                                    during our route. We found grass yesterday and today better than at any place during
                                    our journey. The fine rain of the night before will help the grass which has sufferd
                                    from dry weather and I hope we shall find it more plentifull than heretofore. Just
                                    before we drove into camp we came in sight of a train of Ox and mule waggons which
                                    we have gained rapidly upon and shall probably pass tomorrow as they campd in sight.
                                    During the night the wolves indulged us with a serenade and howled in concert for
                                    several hours most inharmoniously. They are very plentifull in the sand hills which
                                    skirt the valley.
                        Friday [May] 11th Started at 8 and drove along slowly, weather cloudy windy and
                                    disagreeable, towards noon however it moderated and became more
                                    pleasant—in the afternoon came in sight of, caught up, and passed the
                                    train ahead of us and campd a few miles beyond them—2 of our heaviest
                                    teams nearly gave out this day. For the first time on our journey we saw Buffalo,
                                    and in immense quantities but entirely out of our reach they being on the opposite
                                    bank of the river. I dare say there were several thousand in the herds we
                                    saw—4 or 5 of the hunters attached to the company we passd waded across
                                    the river for the purpose of killing some of them but night soon coming on we did
                                    not learn their success. We shall try our luck tomorrow.
                        Saturday May 12th, this morning the camp was aroused by the guard calling out that
                                    the Buffalo were crossing the river. On getting up we found that such was the case
                                    and our hunters were immediately on the qui vive. about 150 had crossed within sight
                                    of camp and numbers were in the river wading across. As our men appeared on the bank
                                    ready to give them a reception those in the river turned back and the others ran for
                                    the Hills skirting the valley on our side  of
                                    the river. Col Jarrot immediately set out in pursuit of them leaving the camp
                                    without any guard. Unfortunately the mules and Horses attracted by the unusual sight
                                    of the Buffalo in the river ran to see what they were and a partial
                                    "stampede" took place in which some 10 mules and 3 or 4 Horses
                                    were lost including one of mine. The mules were recoverd however in about an hour
                                    and the horses also were found late in the day keeping company with the Buffalo.
                                    This day we had the first grand sight of Buffalo. I had always discredited the
                                    stories I had heard of their great numbers but I do so no longer as I am certain I
                                    saw during the day at least 20,000. They coverd the vast plain for miles, the
                                    surface of the earth being literally black with them. Col Jarrot killed 2 this day 1
                                    in the morning which we were constrained to leave an[d] 1 in the afternoon a portion
                                    of which was brought into camp and we had fresh meat for supper. We found it very
                                    tough however the Buffalo being an old one and a Bull into the bargain. I did not
                                    relish it much. Campd a short distance from a party of traders from Fort Laramie
                                    bound to the settlements with 5 waggons loaded with Buffalo robes furs and peltries.
                                    The Horse teams mentiond before were also campd but a short distance ahead of us.
                                    The land in this valley is quite poor and apparently at this time is suffering from
                                    drought although by digging 3 or 4 feet below the surface water is sure to be found.
                                    The surface of the plain is in some places coverd with salt which probably descends
                                    from the neighboring Hills and the water which is found by digging is brackish and
                                    impregnated with iron and sulphur. The river water is very good however, and very
                                    much like 
                                        Missouri
                                     water though an Eastern man would as soon drink out of a ditch it is so
                                    turbid and sandy.
                        Sunday [May] 13th The road in this valley is completely alive with teams and the
                                    nearer we approach the south fork [of the Platte] the more so it becomes. There are
                                    now more than 100 waggons within 50 miles and in 1 month from this time over 1000
                                    will have passed on the road. Met this day another party of traders from Fort
                                    Laramie bound to St Joseph. I was sorry I had no letters prepared to send in by them
                                    such an opportunity for transmitting them not often occurring on this road Crossd
                                    several deep hollows or ravines this day (the land becoming more elevated as we
                                    ascend the  valley) and passd also the first
                                    timber we have seen on this side. My Mules this afternoon took fright at the report
                                    of a gun and ran away with me in the waggon On their first plunge I lost the reins
                                    of the leaders and as they ran down Hill I found it difficult to stop them but I
                                    succeeded in doing so after they had ran about 3/4 of a mile. No damage done. We had
                                    a slight shower during the night with some tremendous thunder and lightning.
                        Monday [May] 14 Passd the junction of the South fork this day about 9 o clock 110
                                    miles above the point where we first struck the river. We have yet to ascend this
                                    stream some distance before we can cross with our waggons, at 10 met a party of
                                    Mormons from the Salt Lake proceeding to St Joseph. They gave
                                    great accounts of the Gold region and mention'd an instance of one man
                                    collecting $750 worth of gold in a day.16 They had
                                    been 30 days on the road and were carrying the mail Travelld till 5 and campd in a
                                    very poor spot, miserable grass, worse water and no fuel but damp Buffalo Chips.
                        Tuesday [May] 15. Travelld very slow this day Col Jarrots mules not being able to
                                    proceed very fast. Stoppd about 10 o clock to rest the mules on the Banks of the
                                    river and while remaining there the Ox train of 10 waggons which for the last 40
                                    miles has been close to our heels passd us and from present appearances we shall not
                                    overtake them again. Travelld till 5 making during the day about 15 miles and campd
                                    on the Bank of the river. Weather very threatening and every appearance of rain.
                        Wednesday [May] 16. Morning rainy and cold, being apprehensive of a rise in the river
                                    Col Jarrot decided to cross where we are without proceeding to the usual crossing,
                                    accordingly about 9 after having first crossed on Horseback and staked out a path,
                                    we commenced crossing (most of the waggons doubling their teams) and by 11 we were
                                    all on the opposite Bank. The Water in the deepest parts was about 2 feet 
                              
                                 16 Collectin gold worth this sum was entirely within
                                            the realm of probability. During 1848, the North Fork of the American, the
                                            Yuba, the Feather, the Stanislaus, and the Trinity rivers often yielded
                                            $500 to $5,000 for a single day's labor.
                                            Rodman W. Paul, 
                                    
                                                    California
                                                 Gold: The Beginning of Mining in the Fur West (
                                                Cambridge
                                            , Mass., 1947), 55.
                           
                                     deep and the bottom of the river being
                                    quicksand it was necessary to keep constantly progressing to prevent sinking as the
                                    sand washed away from under the wheels very rapidly. Campd immediately after
                                    crossing and remaind all day at the landing. Continued stormy all day. The Ox train
                                    of 23 waggons passd in the afternoon on the opposite side and campd 2 miles above us
                                    Evening cold wet and disagreeable.
                        Thursday [May] 17. Heavy rain during the night and untill 11. O clock The evening
                                    previous 5 mule teams hove in sight on the opposite bank and as they appeard anxious
                                    to cross, some of our party went to direct them to the ford. They proved to be
                                    acquaintances of Col Jarrot from 
                                        Illinois
                                     and are anxious to join our company. left our camp about 7 and moved to
                                    a higher spot. it rained so hard that we gave up all idea of travelling any more
                                    that day. At 10 the 5 waggons joined us at our camp and remained with us till next
                                    morning Cleard up about 11 which gave us a chance to dry our beds and tents but
                                    during the night it rained again and our tents got as wet as ever. An alarm of
                                    Indians during the night[.] Camp aroused and Mules picketed in the corral.
                        Friday [May] 18 left camp at 6 and travelld slowly up the valley crossing some some
                                    [sic] deep sandy gullies and water courses on our way. 4 out of the 5 waggons
                                    finding they could outtravell us left us and went on before and I was very much
                                    tempted to join them, the other one remained with us and probably will continue to
                                    do so. disagreeable and windy day and heavy rain during the night.
                        Saturday [May] 19th Started at 6 and at 11 came in sight of the Sioux Indian village
                                    situated at the principal ford of the river where the road strikes across for the
                                    North Fork [of the Platte]. While we were resting our Mules the whole tribe came to
                                    visit us and after making them some presents quite a trade was struck up in articles
                                    of Indiam [sic] manufacture. Col Jarrot succeeded in purchasing 4 or 5 mules in
                                    exchange for his worn out Horses. The Indians were generally a fair looking set of
                                    men and some of the squaws were quite handsome. got under weigh again about 1 the
                                    skirts of a heavy thunder shower passing us at the time and wetting us with rain.
                                    The ascent up the Bluffs which skirt  the river
                                    was quite steep and in some places very heavy drawing on account of the sand. Upon
                                    arriving at the summit of the Bluffs we were gratified with a magnificent spectacle.
                                    A tornado was whirling across the prarie [sic] and though there
                                    was but little on which to exert its fury still the commotion of the clouds and the
                                    immense masses of vapour whirling around with inconceivable rapidity and scattered
                                    in fragments while the roaring of the wind could be distinctly heard at 2 miles
                                    distance, furnislid a sight seldom witnessd and excited sentiments of mingled
                                    admiration and awe. After the tornado had passed clouds of Grasshoppers fell from
                                    the sky which had been drawn up from the surface of the prairie by the Whirlwind.
                                    The Cloud presented the appearance of a long funnel the small end downwards as black
                                    as ink and at times reaching the ground around which the fragments of clouds where
                                    [were] whirled with the speed of light while all the clouds in the vicinity seemed
                                    to be attracted to the centre to swell the volume of the tornado. Its course was
                                    towards the north East and fortunate for us was it that it did not pass near or over
                                    our waggons which had it so occurr'd would have been scatterd to the four
                                    winds of Heaven. Campd at 5 the weather presenting every appearance of a tempestuous
                                    night Dark clouds lay all around the Horizon from which the lightning flashd
                                    incessantly while the thunder rumbled in the distance. The country around us is
                                    sterile and barren no timber or water and perhaps sufficient pasture to feed a flock
                                    of sheep but nothing else.
                        Sunday [May] 20. Made an early start as there was no grass at our camp and travelld
                                    untill 10 at which time we reachd Ash Hollow, a ravine some miles in length with
                                    steep rocky sides and sandy bottom fringed with Ash trees and stunted Bushes opening
                                    on the valley of the North Fork. Here we found some grass and turned out our mules
                                    to graze. Previous to our reaching this place one of our men shot a Buffalo and we
                                    accordingly had plenty of fresh Beef which unlike the first brought in was of
                                    excellent quality. We got under weigh from the Hollow about 10 and travelled up the
                                    banks of the North Fork untill 5, encountering on our way a severe thunder storm
                                    though of short duration The rain which fell was very cold and like the drippings
                                    from some  immense Iceberg which I could almost
                                    fancy was suspended in the air over our heads and that we were receiving a full
                                    share of its melted chrystal. Upon arriving at camp I discovered I had lost my
                                    Frying Pan—quite a serious loss, where I cannot readily supply myself
                                    with another. We found excellent grass on this river which was duly appreciated by
                                    our hungry animals but at our camp and for miles above and below there is no wood
                                    for fuel and we found wet Buffalo chips (our only substitute) not a very combustible
                                    article Some of our company found a portion of a dry cedar tree with which we
                                    managed to cook our supper, and we turned in for the night. The valley of this River
                                    is here fringed with Steep Hills which from their resemblance
                                    to fortifications are called Castle Bluffs and extend up the River for about 25
                                    miles when they assume a different character & are gradual in their ascent.
                                    The soil is poor being principally sand, over which the travelling is very heavy,
                                    with occasionally a strip of swampy ground equally as bad to get over. On the higher
                                    parts of the valley we found clusters of beautifull flowers scattered over the
                                    surface of the ground any of which would be an ornament to any garden but with the
                                    names of which I was entirely unacquainted. Wild onions or Chives grow also in some
                                    places which we gather for Salads.
                        Monday [May] 21st Left camp about 7 O clock nothing worthy of remark occurring on the
                                    road beyond travelling over long strips of sandy road in which our wheels sank from
                                    6 to 8 inches. We arrived at night at the termination of Castle Bluffs where the
                                        Sand Hills commence, a cold disagreeable day with 8 hours
                                    of chilly rain.
                        Tuesday [May] 22. Encountered on this day as on the preceding a heavy sandy and
                                    swampy road and cross'd a number of deep gullies washed out by the rains
                                    from the neighboring Hills. Passd also a single ash tree of large dimensions called
                                    the lone tree from the fact of its being the only tree to be seen in the valley for
                                    40 miles One of our company shot an antelope this day and I found the meat to be the
                                    most delicious I had ever tasted It is very similar to venison only more delicate
                                    and tender.
                        
                        [Wednesday, May 23.]∗ Nothing occurrd worthy of remark
                                    this day untill the afternoon when a large Black cloud rose in the west portending a
                                    severe storm which overtook us just as we had crossed a sleugh half filld with water
                                    on a piece of low swampy ground. Finding the storm likely to prove very severe, we
                                    decided on camping, and commenced unharnessing our Mules in the rain While we were
                                    engaged with our teams there descended the most terrific shower of Hail I had ever
                                    witnessed some of the stones as large as Pigeons Eggs the falling of which on our
                                    Mules drove them perfectly frantic and had not the most of them been tied to the
                                    waggons there would have been a universal stampede Some 20 of them got loose and ran
                                    for several miles but as the Hail did not last long they were brought back in the
                                    course of an Hour. After the Hail the Hills in the neighborhood were as white as if
                                    coverd with Snow in midwinter and continued so for 4 or 5 hours. The Wind then
                                    shifted to the N. E. and a cold wintery rain commenced falling which continued all
                                    night.
                        [Thursday, May 24.]∗ At day Break this morning I was
                                    awoke by an old Steamboatman in our company taking the soundings in our camp and
                                    calling out "By the mark twain" and "no Bottom".
                                    On getting up I found our camp perfectly deluged with water and as the rain still
                                    continued falling and we had no wood to kindle fires our situation was disagreeable
                                    in the Extreme. We remaind encamped untill 2 PM when the rain somewhat abating we
                                    moved to a more elevated position which we found at the distance of 3 miles. Here we
                                    campd again and after procuring some fuel from the Hills about 2 miles distant we
                                    cooked our suppers and retired to rest. The rain continued all night
                        [Friday, May 25.]∗ Still continued raining and we
                                    thought it best to remain in camp untill the weather cleared up. About 10 AM. 2 ox
                                    teams passd us and as the rain somewhat abated Col Jarrot decided on moving forward
                                    as soon as dinner was over. Getting an early dinner we commenced breaking up our
                                    camp our motions being much accelerated by the appearance of another train
                                    approaching us in the valley below Soon after we started the rain commenced again
                                    and continued during the whole afternoon making our journey 
                              
                                 ∗ See note 17.
                           
                                     very unpleasant and drenching us all with
                                    water. Campd just beyond the 2 Ox teams which passd us in morning, making about 10
                                    miles, the weather at night partially cleared up and gave us the promise of a fair
                                    day on the morrow.
                        [Saturday, May 26.]∗ Error in dates to be rectified by
                                    consulting the previous dates.17
                        
                        Friday [May] 25th The weather this morning was clear but intensely cold and a heavy
                                    white frost covered the ground. We took Breakfast tolerably early and started on.
                                    The celebrated land mark called the "Court House" or
                                    "Church" being visible some 12 miles ahead while still further in
                                    the distance "Chimney Rock" towerd up in the air looking from our
                                    position like a reed or pole stuck up on the prairie Found the road tolerably good
                                    during the morning notwithstanding the previous heavy rains and at 1/2 past 11 we
                                    turned our mules out to graze nearly opposite the Court House. This is an immense
                                    Bluff which rises from the plain solitary and alone at the distance of some 6 miles
                                    from the River and from the regularity of its shape and the appearance of a dome on
                                    its summit presenting a very imposing appearance has acquired the name it bears. It
                                    is the first of a series of Bluffs very similar in character which skirt the valley
                                    for 30 miles any of which would be esteemed great curiosities were they not so
                                    completely eclipsed by the magnitude and imposing appearance of the first. Castles,
                                    towers, frowning Battlements and fortifications of Natures own handiwork in endless
                                    variety are seen at every step, all of them bearing a resemblance to solid masonry
                                    though in reality they are nothing but clay, but that of so solid and cement like
                                    consistence that the heavy rains have but little effect on it. We calculated to camp
                                    at Chimney Rock but owing to the very swampy and wet ground we encountered in the
                                    afternoon we did not 
                              
                                 ∗ See note 17.
                              
                                 17 Evidently Berrien was confused about the day of the
                                            week in the dates the editors have marked with asterisks, for he lined out
                                            parts or all of these dates and wrote in "corrections"
                                            which he also crossed out. A reading of the diary indicates that possibly
                                            Berrien would sometimes miss writing in his diary for a few days. So perhaps
                                            in making back entries, he was uncertain about the days of the week on which
                                            May 23, 24, and 25 fell. The editors cannot explain how Berrien arrived at
                                            two entries marked Friday, May 25. Since reproducing the lined out dates and
                                            "corrections" is not feasible, the proper dates have been
                                            enclosed in brackets and marked by asterisks. (May 23, 1849, was indeed a
                                            Wednesday although Berrien wasn't sure.)
                           
                                     succeed in reaching it by about 3 miles Our
                                    journey this day proved very hard on our teams, and they were completely tired out
                                    when we arrived at camp. Night chilly and disagreeable and white frost in the
                                    morning.
                        Saturday [May] 26 passed Chimney Rock distant 12 miles from the Court House an hour
                                    after we started and I was very much vexed that I could not examine it at a closer
                                    point of view than from the road but having walked 24 miles the previous day and
                                    worn several Blisters on my feet I was obliged to restrain my curiosity and make my
                                    steps as few as possible. It is certainly a great curiosity and presents the
                                    appearance of a large moundlike elevation from the centre of which rises a tall
                                    column like the flue of a iron foundry and it is said to be over 250 feet high.
                                    Though called a Rock it is nothing but clay such as all the Bluffs in the
                                    neighborhood are composed of.18 Travelld all day through very
                                    heavy and swampy roads and at night campd a few miles beyond Scotts Bluffs19 at which point the road leaves the river and strikes over the
                                    Hills for some distance. A portion of our train got under weigh again at 9 this
                                    evening and drove on 10 miles to a Blacksmith shop situated near a small Branch
                                    where the road ascends the Hills. Col Jarrot wishd to get some work done and was
                                    fearfull some of the waggons just behind us might get ahead of him. The remainder of
                                    our train myself among the number remained w[h]ere we were untill next morning.
                        Sunday [May] 27. Started about 6 and at 10 arrived at the Blacksmith shop and joined
                                    our train While remaining here nearly 40 waggons passd us on the way to the diggings
                                        
                              
                                 18 For convincing evidence that this landmark was by
                                            far the most written about of noteworthy natural sights on the trail, see
                                            Merrill J. Mattes, "Chimney Rock on the 
                                                Oregon
                                             Trail," 
                                    
                                                    Nebraska
                                                 History, XXXVI (March, 1955), 1-26.
                              
                                 19 The looming escarpments of Scott's Bluff
                                            are composed of indurated clay and sandstone. The site was named after a
                                            clerk with a fur trader's caravan by the name of Hiram Scott. The
                                            details of Scott's story are not certain, but it is believed that
                                            when he became incapacitated by a wound he was deserted by his associates
                                            some sixty miles north of the place later named for him. The following year,
                                            1829, these same men came upon his bleached bones beneath these jutting
                                            cliffs. The landmark is a grisly reminder of the abandoned wretch who
                                            somehow dragged himself sixty miles seeking aid. Merrill J. Mattes,
                                            "Hiram Scott, Fur Trader," ibid., XXVI
                                            (July-September, 1945), 127-162.
                           
                                     and 2 trains camped near us at nightfall. As I
                                    had brought shoes for my mules with me I took advantage of the Blacksmith to have
                                    them nailed on for which I paid 25 cts for each shoe.
                        Monday [May] 28 Got under weigh about 9 and travelld 12 or 14 miles to Horse Creek a
                                    small stream emptying into the Platte River where we campd
                                    early. The 2 trains mentioned before passd us at this place. One of our teams ran
                                    away during the morning and in making a short turn the waggon to which they were
                                    attached became cramped and one of the wheel mules was thrown under the wheel from
                                    which he was extricated with a broken leg He was left behind to furnish a feast to
                                    the wolves which are plenty in this region
                        Tuesday [May] 29th Nothing worthy of special remark occurrd during this day untill
                                    the afternoon when we were caught in a sudden and severe thunder storm accompanied
                                    with Hail which turned to a settled rain and lasted during the night making it very
                                    disagreeable in camp The country through which we are now passing is very poor being
                                    principally sand though occasionally we pass some very fertile Bottoms where the
                                    grass is fine and our mules fill themselves in a short time, some of the Hillsides
                                    are coverd with pepper grass and wild mustard The 
                                        Prairie
                                     Pea too occasionally makes its appearance and being now in bloom the
                                    air is scented with its perfume. It would be a beautifull plant for a garden. Very
                                    many other beautifull plants and flowers are found on the road different from any I
                                    have ever seen and I regret I am not Botanist enough to describe them Some of the
                                    river Bottoms too have been heavily timbered some little of which still remains so
                                    that we have no difficulty in procuring fuel. We campd this evening opposite an old
                                    trading post which is at present deserted some 15 or 20 miles from Fort Laramie.
                        Wednesday [May] 30th The rain still continuing we remained in camp an hour after
                                    Breakfast when the weather clearing up We caught our mules and proceeded on our
                                    journey. The road was very heavy owing to the rain but it soon dried. At noon we
                                    turned out to graze in a Bottom  near the river
                                    where the Blue grass was very fine While here a train which had been pushing to
                                    overtake us drove up and campd within a 1/2 a mile. While I was engaged in guarding
                                    the mules a young medical student attached to their company accompanied by several
                                    others came near me and discovering the remains of an Indian, in a tree coverd up in
                                    a Buffalo Robe they commenced climbing the tree and proceeded to rip open the Skin
                                    and examine the remains. The practice of suspending the bodies of their dead
                                    relatives in a tree is very common among the Indians in this vicinity and we have
                                    passed numbers of these singular graves if I may make use of the term. These remains
                                    they hold very sacred and any violation of them is sure to be resented, if detected,
                                    on the perpetration. The Skin contained besides the bones of the Indian all his most
                                    necessary implements, tomahawk, pipe, tobacco, matches, and knife besides many
                                    little trinkets. On a neighboring limb of a tree the skull of the favorite Horse of
                                    the deceased was tied with a string I found out from the young student that he had
                                    opened every grave he had found on his journey, a violation of the dead for which
                                    some innocent person may yet suffer and I told him I thought he was doing very wrong
                                    We have learnt from several persons we have met on the road that the Crow Indians in
                                    whose country we are at present are out in large war parties and are hovering along
                                    the road we purpose to travel. They burnt up a small trading post this side of Fort
                                    Laramie 2 weeks ago and we are cautioned to be on our guard against them. Should
                                    they happen to find our young student engaged as I have described I think he will
                                    never see 
                                        California
                                    . The weather continued cloudy the whole day accompanied with a high
                                    cold wind I forgot to mention that a few miles after we left Scotts Bluffs we were
                                    favored with a sight for the first time of Laramie Peak and several other smaller
                                    peaks of the Rocky Mountains distant upwards of 150 miles and
                                    looking like dark clouds on the edge of the Horizon By the aid of a telescope we
                                    could distinctly see the snow piled on their summits apparently 50 or 60 feet deep.
                                    Owing to the cloudy weather we were not able to see the peak again untill this
                                    evening when the sky cleared in the west affording us a fine view. About 3
                                    'O clock we descended from the Hills over which we had been travelling into
                                    the valley of Laramie River and came in sight of the mud walls
                                    of Fort St John a trading post one mile  from
                                    Fort Laramie.20 Shortly after we crossd Laramie
                                    River and came in sight of the Fort which is situated on its banks and is
                                    a large square enclosure constructed of adobes or sun-dried Bricks with walls some 3
                                    or 4 feet thick with turrets at each corner. Here we stoppd for some little time as
                                    Col Jarrot wished to dispose of some of his waggons and purchase more mules having
                                    decided to pack a portion of his provisions over the mountains in order to lighten
                                    the loads in his waggons and be able to make better time. He was disappointed
                                    however in his hopes as there were no animals to dispose of and he could not give
                                    his provisions or waggons away much less sell them for what they were worth. The
                                    Superintendent told me he had 20,000 lbs of Bacon in the Fort left there by trains
                                    ahead of us which he would be glad to dispose of at 1 cent pr lb, and if any of us
                                    were short of provisions we could get a short distance below the Fort on the bank of
                                    the River 800 lbs of good Bacon thrown out by some waggons, and which he would not
                                    take the trouble to send for. He had flour for sale at $2.50 pr 100 lbs
                                    and several waggons had been given him, the owners having no teams to haul them. In
                                    short any thing we wished to get rid of we were obliged to sacrifice there being no
                                    chance of procuring any thing in return. Drove about a mile above the Fort and campd
                                    near the river Here we found the ground strewed with Boxes 
                              
                                            
                                    20 Of all the forts scattered over the West, few saw
                                                as much history as Fort Laramie. Actually there was no single Fort
                                                Laramie, but a succession of them. The first construction on the site
                                                was the log stockade, Fort William, built by fur traders William
                                                Sublette and Robert Campbell in 1834. By 1841 Fort William had badly
                                                deteriorated and the American Fur Company, which now possessed it,
                                                constructed a more pretentious adobe-walled post christened Fort John.
                                                Like its predecessor, the new fort was popularly known as "Fort
                                                Laramie." David L. Hieb, Fort Laramie National
                                                    Monument, Wyoming (National Park Service Historical Handbook
                                                Series, No. 20; Washinton, D.C., 1954), 3-7. Approximately one
                                                month after Berrien visited the fort, the 
                                                    United States
                                                 government purchased the post from the American Fur Company
                                                for $4,000. This entirely new chapter in Fort 
                                                    Laramie
                                                's notable history is expertly retraced in Raymond
                                                W. Settle (ed.), The March of the Mounted Riflemen
                                                    … (Northwest Historical Series, Vol. III; Glendale,
                                                Calif., 1940).
                                            It would appear that Berrien misunderstood that Fort John and Fort
                                                Laramie were one and the same. The structure which he identifies as Fort
                                                John was probably the shell of old Fort Platte. This post had been
                                                abandoned since 1845, very likely because it could not meet the
                                                competition of the American Fur Company. Robert W. Richmond,
                                                "Developments Along the Overland Trail from the
                                                    Missouri River to Fort Laramie, before
                                                1845," 
                                                    Nebraska
                                                 History, XXXIII (September, 1952), 162-164. For a
                                                comprehensive work on Fort Laramie, see LeRoy R. Hafen and Francis M.
                                                Young, Fort Laramie and the Pageant of the West,
                                                1834-1890 (Glendale, Calif., 1938).
                                        
                           
                                     trunks extra axletrees and iron work for
                                    waggons, planks, waggon-wheels and extra articles of various kinds thrown out by the
                                    trains ahead of us. Here we decided upon remaining 1 day also in order to lighten up
                                    and prepare ourselves for the ascent of the mountains over which we shall soon have
                                    to pass. The Road thus far (a distance of 650 miles from St Joseph) is considering
                                    its length and the little trouble taken in making and repairing it the best in the
                                    world. But of the road across the mountains from this place I shall be better able
                                    to speak after I have travelld it. The air this evening was very cold and chilly and
                                    reminded us that the snow-capt summit of Laramie Peak was near us, filling the air
                                    with its frosty influence.
                        Thursday [May] 31st Remained in camp all day lightening up our waggons by the
                                    sacrifice of a great deal of property which was thrown out and left behind. Our camp
                                    was strewed with trunks Boxes tools of different kinds tents and tent poles, Waggons
                                    & Gold Washers, Blacksmiths Bellows stoves chains and iron work of all
                                    kinds. The amount of property left here by the owners occasioned us to call the spot
                                    Camp Sacrifice. Several trains passd us while we remained here Weather very pleasant
                                    during the day but the night cold.
                        Friday June 1st Left our camp about 7 and shortly after commenced ascending the
                                        Black Hills
                           21 as they are calld though
                                    they are any thing but black. We ascended and descended some very steep Hills on
                                    which we found very good grass but neither water or timber and it was not untill 3
                                    O'clock in the afternoon that we found any. At this time we came to a fine
                                    spring of water at the foot of a Bluff in a sandy ravine 112 a mile distant from the
                                    road where we watered our thirsty mules and then proceeded onwards. The road with
                                    the exception of some few sandy gullies and some very long tedious Hills was very
                                    fine and equal to the best gravel road in the states. Campd at night on the Banks of
                                    a shallow creek calld Dry timber Creek, where we found plenty of wood and water but
                                    indifferent grass. The Hills and Bluffs during a portion of this days journey were
                                    very pretty and 
                              
                                 21 This range is now called the Laramie Mountains and
                                            should not be confused with the Black Hills to the
                                            north which overlap eastern Wyoming and South Dakota.
                           
                                     romantic in the extreme in their appearance.
                                    They are composed of a chalky rock resembling rotten stoni [sic]
                                    in appearance and are dotted over here and there, with scattering pine trees, the
                                    plains at the Base of the Bluffs are coverd with fragments of their Branches, which
                                    furnish splendid fuel for camping purposes. The country is quite barren generally
                                    though occasionally we found good grass, and a scarcity of water is felt on the
                                    road.
                        Saturday [June] 2nd. Broke up camp about 6 the road leading along the Banks of the
                                    creek mention'd before. This creek we were obliged to cross 3 times in
                                    about 5 miles after which we left it and struck off to the right through a valley
                                    between 2 ranges of low Hills. We travelld up this valley till we came to a very
                                    steep Hill forming the dividing ridge between 2 valleys and after ascending to its
                                    summit, we descended into the opposite valley by the most difficult, dangerous and
                                    abrupt Hill we have met with on our journey. While on the top of this Hill we had a
                                    most magnificent view of mountain scenery with Laramie Peak in the distance. At 4
                                    campd on the Banks of a beautifull creek (fringed with fine timber larger than any
                                    we have seen on our journey,) the water of which was delightfully cool and fresh
                                    from the snow covered peak of Laramie whose Base it waters. At this place another
                                    train came up with us and crossing the creek campd on the opposite bank. Found very
                                    good grass here. There is also a beautifull spring of delightful water here calld
                                    Hebers spring and distant 42 miles from Fort Laramie.
                        Sunday [June] 3d Nothing worthy of remark occurrd during this day. Our road lay over
                                    very steep Hills which increased in magnitude the farther we proceeded and the
                                    descent from them into the valleys was difficult and dangerous. After crossing some
                                    4 or 5 dry creeks we came to La Bonte Creek a very pretty mountain stream, about 4 O
                                    clock. We crossd this stream and proceeding 4 or 5 miles farther we campd upon a
                                    small branch of the same where we found Col Russells Company mending one of their
                                    waggons. The weather during the day was delightfull but the nights here are always
                                    cold.
                        
                        Monday [June] 4th Left Camp at 6 The road was very dry and the wind blew fresh
                                    covering us with dust. The Hills here and the valleys also are composed of red clay
                                    and the country looks as if it had at some former period been subjected to the
                                    action of volcanic fires. In some places lar[g]e peaks of volcanic rocks are
                                    protruded to a great height through the surface of the valleys, and the country
                                    looks barren and dreary in the extreme. The road however with the exception of steep
                                    Hills and deep ravines is excellent and where it is level our teams could draw 5
                                    times their load. About 3 o clock we came again in sight of the Platte, after
                                    crossing several small rivulets and one very pretty little creek called La Prele. We
                                    then began to descend from the Hills and at 5 we campd on the Banks of the Fousche
                                    Bois or Box Elder Creek, 4 miles from the Platte River One of
                                    our party shot a Buffalo this day and quite a number have been seen. This country is
                                    very full of game, Deer, Elk and Buffalo.
                        Tuesday [June] 5th Upon examining my waggon this morning I found one of my axletrees
                                    sprung and the lower skein broken—the effect of coming down steep Hills
                                    with locked wheels. I have an extra axletree however and when it gives way entirely
                                    can easily put a new one in its place. Left camp at 7 and at 1/2 past 10 arrived at
                                    Deer Creek a very pretty stream emptying into the Platte river
                                    4 or 5 miles above the point at which we struck it this morning. Here we remained
                                    some time as there was plenty of good grass and after dinner we went a fishing with
                                    a small net in the creek and succeeded in catching some fine fish In the afternoon
                                    we started again just as a very Black cloud was rising in the west and shortly after
                                    it commenced raining and continued during the day and part of the night Campd early
                                    near the river, good water and wood, poor grass.
                        Wednesday [June] 6. Started about 6 and after travelling 3 miles we were brought to a
                                    full stop by a small creek in places not more than 12 feet wide but nearly 10 feet
                                    deep, after searching some time for a ford we found one near its mouth where it
                                    emptied into the river. Here we crossd it and after travelling till 3 o clock we
                                    arrived at the Upper Platte ferry kept by some "Mormons" who this
                                    year will make a little fortune should the river keep high. Here we found some 60
                                    waggons waiting their turn to cross and as 
                                    there was no possible chance to ford the river we were obliged to camp and wait for
                                    our turn also. The ferry Boat is 3 canoes secured together—the Stream is
                                    very rapid and 100 yards wide and at this time is rising rapidly. The Mormons
                                    besides their Ferry have a Blacksmith shop here and are well patronised this season
                                    at high rates—Ferriage for a waggon $5.00—the mules
                                    have to swim. The nights are cool and disagreeable and the Bluffs skirting the
                                    valley have large snow Banks on their summits. We have rain too nearly every day
                                    occasionally varied with Hail. The country is arid sandy and barren grass is very
                                    poor and nothing appears to grow to advantage but weeds and wild sage with which the
                                    plains abound and which is used for fuel when wood is scarce. The mountains are
                                    dotted here and there with scattering pine trees and the whole country has a
                                    singularly wild and desert like appearance.
                        Thursday [June] 7th. Busied ourselves in making preparations for crossing the river
                                    and about 1. O'clock we swam our mules over, but we were unable to cross
                                    all our waggons on account of a tremendous hail Storm which lasted an hour detained
                                    the Ferry, and came near "stampeding" all our mules. At night we
                                    had 7 waggons across the river and we would have worked untill all were over but it
                                    became Cloudy and the wind blew fresh so we could not work to advantage. Rained hard
                                    in the night.
                        Friday [June] 8. We got the remainder of our waggons over at 8 this morning and
                                    driving up our mules we left the ferry with some 60 dollars less in our pockets than
                                    when we arrived Six miles above the Ferry is the place where the river is generally
                                    forded when the water is low. At this point we left the river and striking over the
                                    Hills laid our course for the Sweet Water River over a most
                                    wretched country sandy barren and unproductive, the surface of the earth coverd in
                                    spots with saline crusts and mineral efflovescences and the water scarcely
                                    drinkable, tasting like weak ley [lye], and in some places absolutely poisonous
                                    making men and animals sick who drink of it. We campd at night in a little valley we
                                    had the good fortune to find where there was fine grass and tolerable water but no
                                    fuel except the wood of the wild sage plant. The night was cold and wintry and very
                                    uncomfortable for all.
                        
                        Saturday [June] 9th We passd this day over a succession of Hills and valleys of very
                                    barren appearance by a crooked winding road which wound around the ranges of naked
                                    rocks and mountains with which the country was as it were hedged in. The Soil was
                                    principally a gravelly Sand occasionally varied with a cement-like 
                                        Clay
                                     and is productive of nothing but the wild sage plant the woody roots of
                                    which we use for fuel. There is no timber to be found except some stunted pines
                                    which occasionally grow in the crevices of the rocky Bluffs and the whole prospect
                                    was cheerless and desolate. On reaching camp this evening I made preparations to put
                                    in my new axletree the old one being so much shattered that I was afraid to trust it
                                    any longer. Several friends kindly lent their assistance and I soon had affairs in
                                    proper train for a sound waggon in the morning
                        Sunday [June] 10th As I did not succeed in finishing my waggon over night I was
                                    obliged to remain behind this morning and was detained an hour and a half. Several
                                    of the company remained with me to assist me in my work and to serve as a guard.
                                    When my waggon was complete the train was still in sight about 5 miles ahead and
                                    driving up pretty smartly I gained rapidly upon them Our road lay across a level
                                    plain of light sand, in spots coverd with a salty alkaline crust and our wheels sank
                                    from 4 to 6 inches. Passed several places where the ground was completely coverd
                                    with Carbonate of Soda or Saleratus which will answer all the purposes of the
                                    article sold in the States. About 11 o clock we came in sight of the Sweet
                                        Water River and 1/2 an hour after we came up with our train which was
                                    nooning at the foot of Independence Rock (a famous landmark and also a great
                                        curiosity[)].22 It rises by itself in the centre of the
                                    plain and is the first of a series of mountains composed of perfectly naked rock
                                    called the Rattlesnake mountains. It acquired its name from a party of 
                                        Oregon
                                     emigrants who celebrated the 4th of July at that place and is literally
                                    coverd with the names of persons painted on its sides to a great height above the
                                    ground. After dinner we got under weigh again and crossing the River 1/2 a mile
                                    above the rock we began to ascend the valley which forms the avenue by which we
                                    attain the 
                              
                                 22 This lone mass of granite is 1,550 yards in
                                            circumference and at its highest point rises 193 feet above the plain.
                                            Archer B. Hulbert, Forty-niners: The Chronicle of the 
                                                    California
                                                 Trail (
                                                Boston
                                            , 1931), 143n.
                           
                                     celebrated South Pass in the Rocky
                                        Mountains. After travelling 6 or 7 miles we passd the celebrated
                                    "Devils Gate" a place where the river forces its way through
                                    perpendicular rocks 400 feet high It is situated a little off the road and is a
                                    great curiosity. The country around with the exception of an occasional strip of
                                    fertile land on the Banks of the river still continues barren and unproductive. The
                                    valley is 4 or 5 miles wide and is skirted on each side by mountains which on the
                                    north side are naked rock with an occasional stunted pine Bush growing in their
                                    clefts, while on the other they are composed of a sterile sandy clay and crumbly
                                    rock, destitute of timber and their tops covered with snow. The whole country is
                                    perfectly valueless for agricultural purposes and with the exception of some poor
                                    grass (very scanty in quantity) wild sage and Grease Wood are its only products. The
                                    road too is heavy & sandy and our teams labor hard. Campd at 5 on the Banks
                                    of the Sweet water which by the bye well deserves its name being cold pure and
                                    delightfull and fed by the eternal snows of the mountains among which it rises. We
                                    made this day 25 miles, a pretty good journey considering the state of the roads
                        Monday [June] 11th Nothing worthy of remark occurrd this day untill noon when we came
                                    up with Col Russels train which crossd the Platte River the day
                                    before us. They were laying by, resting their animals and mending their waggons
                                    which had suffered a little on the journey. Found the road rather better than on the
                                    preceding day and campd at night on the Bank of the river near the foot of a
                                    mountain making about 23 miles. We have a Mormon Guide Book with us which describes
                                    the road minutely and gives the distances from one camp to another and we are thus
                                    able to regulate our drives so as to secure good grass for our animals which are
                                    improving every day.23
                        
                        Tuesday [June] 12th Started this morning before Breakfast and travelld 9 miles to a
                                    spot where our guide Book assured us we should find grass of an excellent quality of
                                    which we wished to take advantage as the grass was poor 
                              
                                 23 Col. Jarrot's Company possessed one of the
                                            better guidebooks. Some of the guides used were so unreliable as to be
                                            dangerous. Ray Allen Billington, The Far Western Frontier:
                                                1830-1860 (The New American Nation Series, ed. Hen Steele Commager and
                                                Richard B. Morris; 
                                                    New York
                                                
                                 , 1956)' 226; Hurbert, Forty-niners, 30.
                           
                                     at our camp. Here we remained 3 hours when we
                                    started again being obliged to make 16 miles in order to find a good camp wood and
                                    water. Passd near the road an alkaline spring and lake the ground in the vicinity of
                                    which was covered with saleratus—our road lay over some very sandy Hills
                                    at a distance from the River and it was late in the afternoon when we reached our
                                    camp. During this day we had our first view of the "Wind
                                    River Mountains" and "Fremonts Peak," coverd
                                    with Snow and looking like white clouds in the distance. The night was very cold and
                                    ice froze as thick as a dollar in our Buckets reminding us of our proximity to the
                                    great dividing ridge of the continent. Col Russells train came up with us this
                                    evening having travelld (in order to overtake us) upwards of 40 miles during the
                                    day. We are now 40 miles from the South Pass.
                        Wednesday [June] 13th Left camp at 1/2 past 6 and crossing the Sweet water took our
                                    way over some long Hills to the westward. The valley of the River is here quite
                                    contracted and the Hills approach close together About 10 o clock we left the valley
                                    by an abrupt turn to the right and began to ascend the mountains by some very steep
                                    and difficult roads. The steep Hills and rocky ridges nearly shook our waggons to
                                    pieces and we passd several ravines where the snow still lay several feet in depth.
                                    Campd at night in a beautifull little ravine completely enclosed by surrounding
                                    Hills, a fine stream of snow water running through it, taking its rise from a large
                                    snow Bank on the shady side of the hills at least 12 feet deep. The night was very
                                    cold and ice froze 1/2 an inch thick in our Bucket.
                        Thursday [June] 14th. Left camp at our usual time and after travelling some 7 or 8
                                    miles we came (after crossing several small branches) again on our old friend the
                                    Sweet water for the last time. Here we remained several hours to allow our mules to
                                    feed the grass having been poor at our former camp. There was a company of Traders
                                    campd here some of whom as they told us have lived in mountains 26 years. They are
                                    principally Frenchmen. While we remained here Col Russells Company overtook us and
                                    several more waggons came in sight. The little valley soon presented a  lively appearance there probably being more waggons and
                                    people collected there than ever was witnessd before We have been surpised at not
                                    meeting Indians on our route as we have not seen one since we left the south fork of
                                    the Platte River but the traders have solved the mystery. They
                                    told us that knowing there would be a large emigration from the states this season
                                    they spread a report among the Indians that the white people were running away from
                                    the Small Pox which they affirmed was raging in the states, and as this is the
                                    disease most dreaded by the Indians (the knowledge of which they first obtained by
                                    coming in contact with the white man) they have all left the country bordering on
                                    the great 
                                        California
                                     trail, their fears of this dread malady overcoming their innate love of
                                    plunder. This is fortunate for us as we are glad to dispense with their company.
                                    Left the Sweetwater about 1 o clock and travelling a few miles we reached the valley
                                    intersecting the mountains which is known by the name of the South Pass,24 ascending this we reached the summit about 1/2 past 4 and
                                    continued about 3 miles on the other side when we camped near a fine spring of water
                                    called the Pacific Spring (from its being the first water on the Pacific slope) from
                                    which a little rivulet runs which communicates (by means of the Sandy and Green or
                                        Colorado River as it is called further down) with the
                                    waters of the Pacific Ocean. Here between 7 and 8 thousand feet
                                    above the level of the sea with immense mountains rising still higher on each side
                                    of us their summits clothed with eternal snow we spent a very pleasant night after
                                    the fatiguing journey of the day. The air is delightfully pure though always cold
                                    after nightfall in these mountain regions and although ice froze 1/4 of an inch
                                    thick in our Buckets still we experienced very little inconvenience from the
                                    coldness of the weather. My partner Mr Mercure was taken suddenly ill this night but
                                    what his complaint is I am unable to discover.25
                        
                        
                           
                              24 South Pass marks the continental divide but actually
                                        has little resemblance to a pass. This fortuitous gateway in the Rockies is
                                        about twenty miles wide with an undulating surface occasionally mounting into
                                        hills. So gradual is the ascent that in driving West the editors would have gone
                                        through the pass unawares had it not been for an inconspicuous historical marker
                                        located some distance from the side of the road.
                           
                              25 Since the travelers were now in "high
                                        country," Mercure may have been a victim of the debilitating
                                        "mountain fever."
                        
                        
                        Friday [June] 15. Mr Mercure this morning was so unwell as to be unable to render me
                                    any assistance and I had to catch up and harness my team alone. This business
                                    requires great expedition and consequently I was left somewhat in the rear of the
                                    train. I succeeded however in overtaking it after 2 hours driving at the Banks of a
                                    small branch or water course where they were watering the mules. The water at this
                                    place was strongly charged with alkali and the ground white in spots with carbonate
                                    of soda. After driving a few miles farther we nooned at a spot of excellent grass
                                    which we were fortunate enough to find where our teams had a luxurious repast and
                                    filled themselves in a short time. After dinner we drove on very rapidly and in
                                    about 2 hours arrived at the junction of the 
                                        California
                                     and 
                                        Oregon
                                     roads 19 miles from Pacific Spring. Here 2 waggons left our train,
                                    having determined to go the southern route by the way of Salt
                                    Lake. Our party however determined to go the old route by the way of
                                    Greenwoods Cut-off,26 which though objectionable in some
                                    respects is some 70 miles shorter About 4 miles from the junction we crossd a small
                                    stream calld the Dry Sandy and we campd on the opposite Bank Here we remained untill
                                    6 when we harnessd up again and proceeded on to another creek called the Big
                                    Sandy-distance some 10 miles, where we arrived at 10. The night was quite dark and
                                    cold but the road was good and no Hills on the route. Our object in travelling after
                                    night was to allow our teams to rest and fill themselves the next day untill 3 PM
                                    when we expected to start and drive all night untill we reached Green
                                        River it being represented to us that for that distance (35 miles) we
                                    should find no water. We had a slight shower accompanied by a high wind soon after
                                    we arrived at camp and our tents and waggon covers were scattered in all directions.
                        Saturday [June] 16th. Remained in camp this day until 3. O'clock at which
                                    time we harness'd up and started on our long stretch of 35 miles which we
                                    expected to make by 6 the next morning. The road after leaving the river was very
                                    level for a long distance and as far as we could see appeared to continue so untill
                                    our view was bounded by a lofty range of 
                              
                                 26 Greenwood's Cutoff, "Dry
                                            Drive," or as it was more commonly identified, Sublette's
                                            Cutoff, was designed to eliminate the wide detour caused by going south to
                                            Fort Bridger. Those who wished to go south to Salt Lake
                                            City did not use this cutoff utilized by the Argonauts of
                                        '49.
                           
                                     mountains coverd with Snow. The country was the
                                    most barren of any we had yet seen producing nothing but wild sage and weeds and in
                                    some places perfectly destitute of any thing in the shape of vegetation The soil
                                    appeared to be a hard gravelly clay and the road, owing to dry weather and the
                                    passage of so many teams was dusty in the extreme and was rendered almost
                                    insupportable by the prevalence of an extremely high wind which blew the dust in
                                    clouds and almost suffocated us. The sky was cloudy and threatened rain and as
                                    evening approached became quite dark. We drove on till 9 the country becoming more
                                    broken and hilly, we passd down several long Hills not very steep untill at last we
                                    found ourselves on the brink of a ravine the descent of which was perfectly
                                    frightfull. The night was so dark we could not see the road in all its horrors but
                                    double locking our wheels we trusted ourselves to our mules and fortune, and began
                                    the dangerous descent, which we all succeeded in effecting in safety. On getting to
                                    the Bottom our company thought best to give over the prosecution of our journey
                                    untill daylight and we accordingly turned out our mules and remained till 4 in the
                                    morning. At this time we got under weigh again and passing over a succession of
                                    ravines and long tracts of table land on which we found excellent grass but which we
                                    were unable to give our mules the benefit of we about 9 o clock caught the first
                                    view of Green River at the distance of 7 miles. Our descent to
                                    the valley of the river from this distance was really terrible and it will always
                                    astonish me that it was effected in safety by such a number of waggons, not an
                                    accident occurring though in many places the Hills we had to descend were almost
                                    perpendicular and at other places the road wound along on high ridges with deep
                                    ravines on each side, hundreds of feet deep, the tops of the ridges being barely
                                    wide enough for 2 waggons to pass abreast. Our mules appeared to feel the danger of
                                    our position and behaved admirably as they generally do in all mountainous countries
                                    acting with great prudence and circumspection and displaying their sureness of foot
                                    in a remarkable degree They were suffering too for water not having had any since we
                                    left the Sandy River, and as the morning was warm and the road
                                    dusty they were almost suffocated with thirst which their exercise during a drive of
                                    full 40 miles increased in a great degree. We did not reach the river valley untill
                                    1.  o'clock when we soon relieved our
                                    mules of their harness and gave them water and grass, though of this latter there
                                    was but a poor supply, the land being destitute of almost every thing except weeds.
                                    A mule however can live on almost any thing and they were soon busy cropping the
                                    stunted herbage and contenting themselves with "Dog" instead of
                                    "Beef" this time. This valley is very beautifull and presents by
                                    far the most charming specimen of mountain scenery I have met with on my journey.
                                    The Hills we found so difficult to descend when viewed from the valley are
                                    beautifull in the extreme. They are regular in their formation and combined with the
                                    green valley which they enclose, with its rapid and beautifull river, with its
                                    Islands covered with timber, the clayey Hills on the opposite side and the snow
                                    capp'd summits of the lofty mountains seen in the distance, form a scene
                                    which is beautifull as a picture. The River here is too deep to ford but there is a
                                    Ferry kept by a Frenchman by the name of ["Wokie"?] who crosses
                                    waggons at $2. apiece. There were 50 or 60 teams ahead of us when we
                                    arrived so we shall be detained a day or more before we can get our turn. This delay
                                    we can well afford as our teams require rest.
                        Monday [June] 18th. As usual in this mountainous country, the morning was very cold
                                    and during the day frequent showers of chilly rain and sometimes Hail made the
                                    weather disagreeable though at intervals the sun would shine out with great warmth.
                                    The business of ferrying the waggons over proceeds but slowly and there is no
                                    telling when we shall get away from this place
                        Tuesday [June] 19. The waggons ahead of us having mostly been ferried over we
                                    commenced crossing the river about 8. O'clock and by using extra exertions
                                    our teams were all across by eleven. We remained on the bank of the river untill we
                                    got our dinners and untill some 2 or 3 trades for Horses and Mules could be brought
                                    to a successful conclusion when we harnessd up and left the valley of the
                                        Green River. The mountains before us looked almost
                                    inaccessible but we found a tolerable road through the defiles between them and
                                    after ascending and descending some steep Hills we found ourselves in the valley of
                                    a small stream, tributary to the Green River 6 miles from the
                                    Ferry. Up this stream we  travelld some 4 miles
                                    when night coming on we campd on its Banks having first crossd it. The country still
                                    presents the same sterile appearance and good grass is scarcely to be found.
                        Wednesday [June] 20. Nothing worthy of remark occurr'd during the day except
                                    our passage over some very rough country which began gradually to assume a better
                                    appearance as regards fertility and we found some very good grass on the Hills.
                                    Towards night we came upon another stream the water of which was so high that we
                                    were obliged to raise our waggon beds 6 inches in order to cross it. In descending
                                    to the valley of this stream we came down a very steep Hill almost equal to the one
                                    described before, but they have been so common during this part of our journey that
                                    we scarcely notice them. We campd in the valley of this stream which is
                                    call'd (as we were told) "Hams Fork" and is a tributary
                                    of Bear River although its waters appeared to me to run the
                                    wrong way.
                        Thursday [June] 21. Left Hams Fork at 6 and ascending the Hills on its west Bank we
                                    proceeded on our journey. The country as we proceeded began to assume a still better
                                    appearance and occasionally small patches of timber were found on the mountain
                                    sides. Fine springs of delicious water were common on the road-which kept constantly
                                    ascending untill as it appeared to me we attained an elevation much greater than any
                                    we had reached before. On the top of the mountains we found large level spaces of
                                    fertile land & abounding in grass and water the latter in some places so
                                    plentifull as to render the soil swampy Just before we attained our greatest
                                    elevation we passd through a copse of beautifull fir trees almost the first we had
                                    seen in the mountains We soon after arrived at the summit and we had a most
                                    magnificent view of mountain scenery but our attention was speedily called from the
                                    contemplation of it to the stupendous Hill we were obliged to descend over a mile
                                    long and in some places so steep that our mules would be obliged to slide down. We
                                    commenced descending with double locked wheels and it was with the utmost difficulty
                                    we could prevent the waggons from running over the mules About 1/2 way down we were
                                    brought to a full stop by a cliff of rocks which extended  across the defile down which we were passing, the
                                    descent over which for 30 feet was nearly perpendicular. Here we were obliged to
                                    take off our mules and lower our waggons over the precipice with ropes some 30 men
                                    holding back at a time. We succeeded in this without any accident and after a long
                                    and very carefull drive we arrived at the bottom of the Hill in safety. Finding fine
                                    grass and a beautifull rivulet in the valley we turned out our mules and got our
                                    dinner. I found some fine onions growing near the banks of the stream of which I
                                    made a fine salad which I would not have exchanged for any dish in the world. Having
                                    so much salt meat to eat we all have a great craving for vegetable food and I would
                                    freely give a dollar for 1/2 a dozen potatoes. After dinner we in company with
                                    another train (which we found in the valley) commenced ascending another Hill, a fit
                                    rival to the one we had just descended. On arriving at the top we found we were
                                    immediately to descend again and we found this to be the steepest Hill we had yet
                                    encountered. We had to keep ropes attached to our waggons 3/4ths of the way down and
                                    it required the aid of 20 men to each waggon to prevent them from overpowering the
                                    teams. On arriving at the bottom we found we were in the valley of another tributary
                                    of Bear River called Smiths Fork We were detained so long by
                                    the last Hill that we did not proceed far but campd very soon after striking the
                                    valley.
                        Friday [June] 22. Our course lay this morning up the valley of Smiths Fork and about
                                    9 o clock we were obliged to cross it near where it entered the valley through a
                                    pass in the mountains A few miles farther on we came upon the Bear
                                    River having passd the junction of our road with the old 
                                        Oregon
                                     trail before crossing Smiths Fork. The road down this valley is
                                    excellent and the grass also. While we were nooning a party of Indians came to our
                                    camp and informed us that "Thomas s Fork," a tributary of
                                        Bear River which we had to cross was bank full and the
                                    water as high as the tops of our waggons These are the first Indians except a few at
                                        Green River and the "Sioux" of the 
                                        Nebraska
                                     that we have yet seen notwithstanding the reports of such numbers of
                                    them being on the road waiting for plunder. We nooned within sight of Thomas Fork
                                    and could see on the opposite side some 30 waggons which had succeeded in crossing
                                    and were nooning on the Banks. After dinner we drove  about 7 miles around a large portion of swampy land
                                    which lies at the junction of the "Fork" with the River and as the
                                    Indians told us we found the Stream quite high. We blocked up our waggon Beds
                                    however and soon got across without much difficulty. We then commenced ascending the
                                    Hills bordering on the River and forming the dividing ridge between the Fork and the
                                    main Stream After crossing 1 Hill we descended into a small valley through which ran
                                    a small rivulet and here we saw the finest display of natural grass that we have met
                                    with on our journey The grass was over 1 foot high free from weeds and full of seed
                                    nearly formed— and resembled a well cultivated mowing
                                    ground—growing even to the summits of the Hills on either side of the
                                    valley. Leaving this valley we ascended a very steep Hill and after crossing its
                                    summit descended again to the Bear River valley by a Hill
                                    equally steep and dangerous, from the number of Stones in the road. We did not
                                    arrive in the valley until after Sun down after a long drive of over 30 miles. This
                                    night we had no frost or ice though there is plenty of snow still to be seen on the
                                    adjacent mountains
                        Saturday [June] 23. Our course this day lay down the valley over a level and
                                    beautifull road on which at the time a great many waggons besides our own were
                                    travelling We crossd several rivulets emptying into Bear River
                                    and passd the large train "23 Ox waggons ["] during the day. Late
                                    in the afternoon in crossing a small rivulet with muddy banks one of our waggons
                                    broke an axletree and we accordingly campd, in order to repair it Night chilly and
                                    cold.
                        Sunday [June] 24. Nothing worthy of remark occurrd during this morning We started
                                    early and made a rapid drive of over 15 miles before dinner. We passd large
                                    quantities of Lava rock near the road which furnishd evidence that this region has
                                    at some period been subject to volcanic action. The land of this valley is generally
                                    fertile and we found most excellent grass It would make a superior wheat country and
                                    no doubt produce excellent crops. Shortly after we had nooned we came upon the
                                    celebrated Soda Springs near the banks of the River. There are several of them in
                                    close proximity to each other each differing a little in their taste owing to the
                                    different quantities of gas passing through their water.  One of them is called the Cider spring from the
                                    slightly acid taste the water possesses. A short distance below we came to the Steam
                                    Boat Spring, which is a great curiosity. It is situated near the margin of the river
                                    and issues from a flat brownish rock through several apertures from the largest of
                                    which the slightly heated water is thrown up to the height of 18 inches at regular
                                    intervals like the steam escaping from the pipe of a high pressure Steam Boat. In
                                    several of the other apertures the water presents the appearance as if boiling and
                                    as it rushes from the rock is accompanied with a hissing noise. The Rock itself is
                                    sufficiently hot to feel warm to the feet the moment you tread on it, through the
                                    soles of the Shoes. The Mountains in the vicinity and for miles below abound in
                                    evidence of volcanic action and on the opposite side of the River as I am told there
                                    is an Old Crater from which no doubt much of the volcanic signs have issued. Shortly
                                    after leaving the spring it commenced raining and continued to do so for about 3
                                    hours. At the end of this time we made an abrupt turn to the right along the foot of
                                    a range of Bluffs and after travelling 5 miles we camped within sight of a large
                                    train just ahead of us. We passd on the road several remarkable fissures in the
                                    volcanic rock which appeared to be without bottom, and also a remarkable Spring with
                                    a river all round it like the Edge of a Bowl.
                        Monday [June] 25 Started some time before the other train and continued up the
                                    valley, (having left the Bear River valley when we took the
                                    abrupt turn the evening previous)—the country retaining the same
                                    characteristics and volcanic rock still quite troublesome in the road. About noon we
                                    arrived at the Forks of a small stream where we turned out to graze and remained
                                    some time. We supposed this stream to be the Port Neuf which rises in the range of
                                    mountains on our left and empties its waters into the Snake
                                    River or Lewis Fork of the 
                                        Columbia
                                    . We found a number of Indians here and our company succeeded in
                                    purchasing several mules and ponies from them After dinner we crossd the River and
                                    began to ascend the dividing ridge between the waters of the Great Basin and Pacific
                                    Ocean. Our road was very rough-Hilly, Rocky and Swampy by turns and by night we
                                    found all of our teams nearly tired out. One of our teams stalled in a swamp just
                                    after leaving the summit of the  mountain and
                                    detained us so long that we did not reach camp till dusk. We camped near a splendid
                                    spring of water which gushed from the side of the mountain in a volume sufficient to
                                    turn a Grist Mill. Night cold and chilly.
                        Tuesday [June] 26. Continued our journey and after descending the mountains we
                                    followed for some time, the course of a small stream a tributary I believe of the
                                    Port Neuf, and campd near it at noon. After dinner we left this stream and struck
                                    across a broad and level plain coverd with wild Sage and nothing else. The Soil
                                    which at first was clay soon turned to sand and as the day was intensely hot our
                                    mules suffered very much from the heavy drawing. Towards night we campd on a piece
                                    of swampy land (after crossing several sloughs) where we found very good grass, but
                                    we were nearly eaten up by the mosquitoes which abounded in the vicinity and whose
                                    bites were the most poisonous and painfull to me of any I had ever met with. This
                                    was a very tiresome days drive.
                        Wednesday [June] 27. Continued our journey and after crossing several sloughs and a
                                    small stream the water of which we found quite high we arrived about 9 o clock at
                                    Fort Hall27 This celebrated trading post is an edifice similar
                                    in construction to Fort Laramie though not quite so large, built of
                                    "adobes" or sun dried Bricks and is situated on the Banks of
                                    Lewis's Fork We remained here 2 hours and we procured Fresh Beef, Milk,
                                    Cheese and other luxuries so gratefull to those who have been deprived of them for a
                                    length of time. At the expiration of that time we left the Fort and proceeded on our
                                    journey. After crossing several sloughs and much swampy ground we reached the
                                        Port Neuf River the water of which being high we were
                                    obliged to block up our waggon Beds before we could cross it At this place near its
                                    mouth the river is some 40 yards wide and 4 feet deep. After crossing we ascended a
                                    very steep hill to the upland in order to avoid the swampy ground which lies about
                                    the river for a great 
                              
                                 27 Fort Hall had been established in 1834 to serve as
                                            a forward station for the fur trade. Originally the outpost was about nine
                                            miles north of the Portneuf River on the east bank of
                                            the Snake River. This vital station on the main trail
                                            west was owned and operated by the British-Canadian Hudson Bay Company from
                                            1837 to 1856. Richard G. Beidleman, "Nathaniel Wyeth's
                                            Fort Hall," 
                                    
                                                    Oregon
                                                 Historical Quarterly, LVIII (September, 1957),
                                            197-250.
                           
                                     many miles. Our course lay paralell with Lewis
                                    Fork the road following the river for some distance We had a very unpleasant days
                                    journey owing to the road being grown up with wild Sage the woody roots of which
                                    obstructed our way and shook our waggons about dreadfully and also to the great
                                    quantities of dust which rose in clouds around us. About 3 o clock in the afternoon
                                    we crossd the "Panac" a small stream or rivulet rather and after a
                                    long and hard days drive for both mules and men we campd late in the evening with 2
                                    other trains with which we had caught up.
                        Thursday [June] 28 Left Camp at our usual hour but not before the 2 trains (who were
                                    anxious to keep ahead of us) had started Our course as on the preceding day lay
                                    along the banks of the River and our road as regards dust was but little better than
                                    before. About 10. O'clock we arrived at the falls of the Snake
                                        River calld the American Falls which presented us with a magnificent
                                    spectacle and which I would try to describe if description was my forte. The scenery
                                    near the Falls is very picturesque and pleasing and continues with some exceptions
                                    to be so for some distance. There are numerous rapids in the river besides the
                                    Falls, & the rocky shores assume some very unusual forms which to the
                                    admirer of natures handiwork renders this part of the road peculiarly interesting.
                                    At Evening we arrived at Fall River so called from the numerous cascades with which
                                    it is embellished near its mouth, and crossing it we campd on the opposite Bank. The
                                    grass was very poor and our teams suffered in consequence having for the last few
                                    days been worked unusually hard.
                        Friday [June] 29. This morning after the first few hours drive, we ascended the
                                    Hills, leaving Lewis Fork, and at length we entered into a long and narrow valley
                                    which descended to the Banks of Raft River. We followed the
                                    course of this River the entire day crossd its channel 3 times and camped on its
                                    banks at night, nothing material occurring except that we found plenty of dust and
                                    scarcity of grass. One of my mules was taken Sick this day owing to its having eaten
                                    some poisonous plant or drank some of the poisonous water so common in this country.
                                    We have lost several animals from this cause already.
                        
                        Saturday [June] 30. My mule was so ill this morning that I was unable to drive him in
                                    the team I succeeded however in procuring one from a friend to work in his place and
                                    was enabled thus to continue my journey. We followed Raft River
                                    this day to its head and crossd the dividing Ridge which seperates the Waters of the
                                    Pacific from the Great Basin. Among the Hills at the head of Raft
                                    river we found excellent grass, Red top and Bunch grass, and it continued
                                    good to our camp. My mule was very ill this evening and in common with the others
                                    was very much afflicted with a sort of gnat which has made its first appearance this
                                    day. It fastens in the hide of a mule like a wood tick and when it is brushed off
                                    the head is generally left behind When it lets go voluntarily large drops of blood
                                    mark the spot it left. I do not know what they are called but I never saw any thing
                                    of the kind before.
                        Sunday July 1st My mule being worse than ever this morning, and my friend not being
                                    able to oblige me with his mule I applied to Col Jarrot in order to hire one, he
                                    having several extra ones but I met with a very abrupt refusal and upon going the
                                    rounds of the camp I found I could not procure a single mule for love or money. When
                                    the usual time for starting arrived my Waggon was thus compell'd to remain
                                    behind. I discoverd also that one of my axletrees was slightly sprung and as I was
                                    refused the only one in the company when the train started I accompanied it on foot
                                    for a few miles, as I had heard the evening before that a waggon belonging to one of
                                    the trains ahead had been broken in passing through a very rocky defile between 2
                                    mountains, which it was the intention of the owners to abandon, and I thought I
                                    might possibly stand a chance of supplying myself there, as several trains had campd
                                    there the previous evening. On arriving at the defile however I found the owners of
                                    the broken waggon engaged in constructing a cart of the hind wheels and as the other
                                    axletree was broken I was dissappointed in my hopes. I succeeded however in
                                    purchasing (from an ox train ahead) a mule which had been sick but was recovering,
                                    for $30.00 and with my prize I returned to camp. As I was returning I
                                    again requested Col Jarrot to let me have his extra axletree but meeting again with
                                    a refusal, I took my leave of him much vexed with his mean  Conduct and shamefull desertion, of a member of his
                                    company in his hour of need. On arriving at camp I found "Mercure"
                                    my partner busily employd preparing his fire arms in order to be prepared for any
                                    emergency should Indians visit us in our unprotected situation. My mules were
                                    quietly feeding around the waggon and with the exception of the one that was sick
                                    luxuriating in the felicity of a days rest, a unusual occurrence to them. We began
                                    immediately to rearrange our load (in order to lighten it as much as possible) and
                                    cook our dinner. Just before our dinner was ready a horseman arrived at our camp who
                                    had been in search of a horse lost by one of the trains ahead of us. He informed me
                                    there would be a train of 20 Ox waggons with us at our camp at night he having left
                                    them a days journey behind and that I would then have plenty of company. He remained
                                    and took dinner with us and shortly after left. As I was anxious to pass the rocky
                                    gorge in the mountain and know the fate of my axletree at once after dinner I
                                    commenced harnessing my mules. My sick mule observing this neighed several times and
                                    came voluntarily to the waggon as if to take his customary place but was in such
                                    pain that it could scarcely stand. He lay down and rose again several times at last
                                    he began to groan and struggle and was evidently in his death agony. He continued in
                                    this state for 1/2 an hour and then died the blood gushing from his nose and mouth.
                                    As we now knew the worst we immediately left camp and proceeded about 4 miles to the
                                    rocky gorge mentiond before which we succeeded in passing without accident and we
                                    camp'd just beyond it. Discovering that we had left our axe at our former
                                    camp I proceeded on foot to recover it. I reached the camp about sundown found my
                                    axe & to my great joy could discover the smoke from the fires of the ox
                                    train the horseman told us of, ascending the sides of the mountain about 2 miles
                                    distant. Their presence so near me served to make me feel more secure and I returned
                                    to my waggon with a light heart. It rained and hailed very hard during the night and
                                    the lightning fairly blinded us with its dazzling brilliancy
                        Monday [July] 2 About 8 o clock the Ox train came along and we harnessd our mules and
                                    joined them they manifesting every disposition to oblige and assist us and offering
                                    to extend us their aid whenever it should be required. We  passd by a very fine road, through several narrow
                                    passes in the mountains—which were different from any we had seen before,
                                    the most of them consisting of naked rock piled up in every imaginable form and
                                    descending into a valley we turned out to noon by the side of a pretty little
                                    rivulet. About 3 miles before us was another train which had just arrived from the
                                        Salt lake. We had passd the junction of the Salt
                                        lake road with the 
                                        California
                                     road early in the day. In the afternoon we passed over some very steep
                                    Hills and we campd at night on the head waters of Muddy Creek a tributary of
                                        Snake River. The weather was intensely cold during the
                                    night and ice froze 1/4th of an inch thick in our Bucket.
                        Tuesday [July] 3d This morning after passing over some steep and rocky Hills we
                                    descended into the valley of Goose Creek and continued in it all day. just before
                                    sundown we came upon a place where the stream issues from a Rocky gorge between 2
                                    mountains and through which the road runs, which was almost as difficult to pass as
                                    the rocky defile we encounterd 2 days before. We all succeeded in getting through in
                                    safety which was more than those who were before us could say, the fragments of 2
                                    waggons testifying to the danger of the road and their loss at the same time When
                                    about midway through this pass we campd in a spot where the mountains receded from
                                    each other leaving a pretty little valley covered with tolerable grass between them.
                                    The stream furnishd us with water and the scattering white Cedar Bushes on the
                                    mountain side gave us fuel which last we needed very much as the night was nearly as
                                    cold as the preceding one and one found plenty of ice in the morning.
                        Wednesday [July] 4th We made an early start this morning purposing to drive till 2 PM
                                    and then to lay by for the rest of the day in order to celebrate the anniversary of
                                    our Independence We were dissappointed however in our intentions for the country
                                    over which we had to pass was sterile in the extreme and we could find no grass or
                                    water for our cattle. The Hills we passd in the morning were covered with volcanic
                                    rock which lay so thick in the road that our waggons were in danger of being broken
                                    every instant-indeed we passd the fragments of one, broken on the day previous-and
                                    as for pasturage there was nothing  except the
                                    eternal wild Sage which usurps the place of every thing else and will scarcely
                                    suffer any thing to grow besides itself. We found a small spring about 1
                                    O'clock and we turned out to noon, but as the grass was so scarce we
                                    continued our journey in the afternoon purposing to stop at the first tolerable
                                    grass and water we should find. We travelld in search of this till near night and
                                    barely succeeded in finding then some stagnant water in the bottom of a dry Water
                                    Course by the road side and grass of that miserable quality which grows on land
                                    impregnated with alkali and which is rather hurtfull than nutritious to animals. Not
                                    being able to help ourselves we were obliged to camp here hoping for better luck
                                    next time.
                        Thursday [July] 5. This whole day was spent in passing up a valley of that alkaline
                                    description of soil mentioned above. We experienced a scarcity of water and as usual
                                    poor grass and as the weather appeared to have been dry here for a long time the
                                    roads were horribly dusty and we were nearly suffocated. We reached the termination
                                    of the valley near sundown and here we found a spring of delightfull water at the
                                    foot of the mountains and tolerable grass also We campd at the mouth of a pass
                                    betwen [sic] the mountains through which the road runs and by the
                                    side of a little rivulet which runs from the Spring
                        Friday [July] 6th This morning we proceeded up the pass and over a mountain ridge
                                    into a valley of very sterile soil at the farthest extremity of which were some
                                    lofty mountains covered with snow, which had been in sight for 2 days. We found a
                                    small rivulet in this valley which we thought might probably be a portion of the
                                    head waters of Marys River but we were dissappointed in our
                                    conjectures as after following it for some time it eventually became lost in a swamp
                                    at the foot of the mountains we had seen in the distance. At the base of these
                                    mountains the road turned abruptly to the right and passd into another valley
                                    different in appearance from the last being more fertile and though in spots the
                                    saleratus covered the [this?] ground with its white crust still appearances were
                                    quite favorable for a good camp We found a splendid spring in the centre of the
                                    valley and as the grass was tolerable we campd near it Quite a misfortune here  befell the company with whom I was journeying.
                                    They lost 3 oxen and 1 cow which died in 3 hours from the time of Camping from the
                                    effects of some poison vegetable which they had unfortunately eaten. The company
                                    were accordingly obliged to herd their cattle all night and not allow them to feed
                                    lest they should lose more of them. They discoverd next morning the cause of their
                                    misfortune in some Water Hemlock which grew by the small rivulet which ran from the
                                    spring.
                        Saturday [July] 7. The Ox train made an early start this morning in order to find a
                                    less dangerous neighborhood for their cattle to feed in, leaving me behind as I
                                    decided to get my Breakfast before leaving camp. I caught up with them again about 9
                                    O'clock and taking the lead we travelld together down the margin of the
                                    little stream which constantly increasing in size gave promise (which it eventually
                                    fullfilled) of being a tributary of St Mary River. The banks of
                                    the stream were overspread with fine grass and we found no difficulty in selecting a
                                    beautifull spot to noon at. Soon after dinner we arrived at a spot where the road
                                    taking an abrupt turn round the point of a ridge of land running into the valley led
                                    directly to the first crossing of the long looked for Marys
                                        River
                           28 We soon arrived at the ford and though
                                    the water was quite high we had but little difficulty in crossing our
                                    wagons—after crossing the River we drove 10 miles and campd at a
                                    beautifull spot where the grass stood knee high
                        Sunday [July] 8th Continued our journey down the river this morning for about 12
                                    miles when we reached a point where the valley contracts and the river takes its
                                    course through a narrow pass or cañon in the mountains As we found good
                                    grass here and as one of the companys men was so sick as to render him unable to
                                    travel the Captain decided to abide here during the remainder of the day, a decision
                                    with which I was not very sorry to comply as I believed a days 
                              
                                 28 According to trapper folklore,
                                                Mary's River (Humboldt
                                            River) was named for the Indian wife of Peter Skene Ogden, of the
                                            Hudson Bay Company, who probably discovered the river in 1825. Oscar Osburn
                                            Winther (ed.), "From 
                                                Tennessee
                                             to 
                                                California
                                             in 1849: Letters of the Reve Family …," Journal of the Rutgers University Library, XI (June,
                                            1948), 46. Although Frémont bestowed the present name of Humboldt
                                            on the stream, it retained the identification of
                                                "Mary's River" for a
                                            number of years.
                           
                                     rest would be very beneficial to my animals
                                    particularly to the one last purchased, which had been pretty well worked down
                                    previous to my getting him—a few moments after however I was made aware
                                    of the intention [of] some 6 or 7 waggons to separate themselves from the train and
                                    go ahead 1/2 a days journey and as the Blacksmith of the company was to go with them
                                    and I was anxious to get my mules shod 1 was induced to accompany them. Accordingly
                                    about 1/2 past 2 we started and after crossing a small tributary of the River we
                                    ascended the Hills in order to avoid a cañon through which the River
                                    passes. After we had again descended to the valley we continued our journey 8 miles
                                    and campd at a place where we found the remains of a waggon which had been left on
                                    the road. Monday [July] 9 Nothing occurred worthy of remark untill the afternoon
                                    when we were again forced to take to the Hills in order to avoid crossing the River
                                    which was bank full at the time and 8 feet deep. We crossd the mountain by a road
                                    that was a perfect curiosity and went winding about through the defiles like a
                                    perfect labyrinth, we not being able to see 20 yards before us at any time. After
                                    reaching the summit of the mountain we descended by a very gradual declination to a
                                    valley which opened on the river and campd immediately on our arrival as the sun had
                                    been down some time before we left the mountain.
                        Tuesday [July] 10th After travelling 6 or 7 miles this morning we were again obliged
                                    to ascend the mountain to avoid a cañon. This road too was quite a
                                    curiosity but solely on account of its being so very bad, the latter part of it in
                                    particular (before again reaching the river) being very rocky, causing me to fear
                                    for my axletrees every moment. The distance across the mountain was 16 miles of
                                    which I was not aware untill I had commenced the crossing and as there was no grass
                                    and but little water on the road I drove my team through without nooning. Arrived at
                                    the river again at 1/2 past 3, and was obliged to camp in a most miserable place
                                    there being nothing but weeds and coarse grass for the mules to eat and but little
                                    of that. The road took to the Hills again within 3/4 of a mile and I had no other
                                    resource but to content myself as well as I could.
                        
                        Wednesday [July] 11th About 7 o clock we again ascended the mountain anticipating
                                    another hard drive but in this we were disappointed as after we reached the summit
                                    of the Hill we descended by an easy Pass to the valley again. We travelld about 9
                                    miles through a very miserable country and finding at last some green grass near the
                                    river we determined to stop and allow our animals to feed. The Country we are now
                                    passing through is the most valueless and desert like of any we have met with and it
                                    seems to me that in some violent convulsion of nature the crust of the Earth has
                                    been burst asunder and thrown up in the form of rocky sterile mountains composed of
                                    Lava and 
                                        Clay
                                     in alternate proportions and in every variety of shape and size while
                                    at the same time floods of mud and ashes have been vomited forth from the bowels of
                                    the Earth which has subsided to the foot of the mountains and formed the valley in
                                    which we are now travelling. The Soil is the most arid sterile and unproductive of
                                    any I have yet seen Nothing in the shape of vegetation can be found except Wild Sage
                                    and Grease Wood—except on the margin of the stream where a coarse wild
                                    grass is occasionally found which furnishes the only food for our animals and this
                                    is rapidly drying up under the influence of a blistering sun—and as at
                                    this season of the year it never rains in this Country I cannot help fearing that
                                    those who come after us will experience great distress and suffering and perhaps
                                    lose their lives in this desert valley. As near as we can judge there are about 110
                                    teams ahead of us at present and their transit over the valley has been very much
                                    like the descent of the locusts in 
                                        Egypt
                                     which ate up every green thing. The whole soil of the valley is
                                    impregnated with mineral salts and in some places is perfectly naked of vegetation
                                    and covered with a white crust of Sal Eratus nearly an inch thick Clouds of dust
                                    arise as we pass along the road composed of light clay and volcanic ashes which
                                    nearly suffocates us, and the reflection of the sun from the whitened ground is hard
                                    to bear. I do not think our own Mothers would know their sons were they to see us
                                    after our days drive with our clothes ragged, and coverd with dust, our faces coverd
                                    with exhuberant whiskers which are all of one color, namely, that of the Soil on
                                    which we travel, and guttered down with stripe's of dirt of a darker color
                                    which indicate the spot where the perspiration has rolld off our brows. Some of us
                                    are shoeless, hatless and nearly clothes less and we are generally so tired when we
                                         arrive at camp that we feel no inclination
                                    to mend or repair the rents our clothes sustain on our journey We passd the junction
                                    of a road from the other side of the river with the one on which we are travelling
                                    which we supposed to be the one from the South side of the Salt
                                    Lake but no waggons had travelld it this season. We found a very good
                                    camp this evening and campd early The company with which I am travelling left one of
                                    their waggons at this place. This evening we heard of the first depredation which
                                    has been committed by the Indians on our road as far as we can learn. An old
                                        Tennesee River pilot by the name of Stump who has been
                                    travelling near our train for some time had one of his oxen mortally wounded by the
                                    Indians who shot 3 arrows into it. This practice is quite common among the Indians
                                    in this country who wound the animals of the Emigrants in order to oblige them to be
                                    left behind when they kill and eat them The Indians have probably been held in check
                                    by the great number of people passing through the valley recently as this is the
                                    first occurrence of the kind we have heard of this season29
                        
                        Thursday [July] 12. Nothing worthy of remark transpired this morning. We found a
                                    tolerable good place to feed our animals at noon, shortly after leaving which, in
                                    the afternoon, the river crowded our road very close to the mountain for 1/2 a mile
                                    leaving us barely room to pass at its foot after which its course turned directly
                                    across the valley which at this point stretched before us in a wide plain covered
                                    with mineral salts and Sage Wood such as I have previously described We were obliged
                                    to travel some 10 miles before we struck the river again. Here we were obliged to
                                    camp although there was no grass for our teams except a very scattering growth of
                                    stunted and withered herbage-nearly crisped up by the heat of the weather and
                                    dryness of the Soil. Though we find the heat barely supportable during the day the
                                    nights here are always cool and sometimes unpleasantly cold.
                        
                           
                              29 The Indians who inhabited the banks of the
                                            Humboldt River were the despised Diggers. A primitive
                                        people, they had been driven into the desert by more powerful neighbors. They
                                        existed in a harsh, inhospitable environment and grew accustomed to eating.
                                        almost anything from rancid roots to "fat black crickets of the valley
                                        and the plenitude of their own vermin." Beggars and thieves, they
                                        rarely attacked a caravan of any size. What they had done to "Stump,
                                        who apparently was alone, was typical of their depredations. Leeper, Argonauts of 'Forty-nine, 67.
                        
                        
                        Friday [July] 13th As our teams had no grass to mention during the previous night we
                                    made an early start in order to find a more plentifull camp in which we succeeded
                                    after travelling about 5 miles. Here we remained untill we got our Breakfast after
                                    which we drove quite rapidly and nooned within 1/2 a mile of 2 trains ahead of us.
                                    Within the last 3 days some 20 teams have passd us but we manage to keep within
                                    sight and sometimes within hailing distance of them Nothing of note happened during
                                    the afternoon—we found a beautifull little peninsula nearly surrounded by
                                    the river and coverd with very fine grass and we campd quite early.
                        Saturday [July] 14th Much the same incidents as on the preceding day, grass rather
                                    more plentifull but of the Saleratus Kind which is very poor for mules and cattle
                                    and sometimes injurious Passd a spot where the river extends itself over a large
                                    portion of its valley which is thus converted into a swamp covered with rushes and
                                    long grass. in the afternoon we were obliged to take to the mountains in order to
                                    avoid a cañon but we reached the river again after some 3 hours driving
                                    We passd a very good ox waggon on the river bank abandoned by its
                                    owners—grass still poor and country barren—had a very poor
                                    camp this evening and the mules suffered in consequence.
                        Sunday [July] 15th Started early in order to find good grass but did not succeed all
                                    day Passd over some places where the ground was coverd white with saleratus the dust
                                    from which smelt nearly as strong as harts horn. Encountered in the afternoon a
                                    number of low Sand Hills over which I found it difficult to
                                    drive my team which fails considerably owing to the poor feed. Found a tolerable
                                    camp some distance from the road but not untill some time after sundown.
                        Monday [July] 16. This day we encountered the worst road we have yet met with, as we
                                    had to pass over the Sand Hills which descend from the
                                    mountains at this place, encroaching on the valley of the river to such an extent as
                                    to make it impossible to travel in the bottom. One of my mules became completely
                                    tired out in the morning but as the company decided to go on in search of better
                                    grass, of which there  was next to none at this
                                    point I endeavored to accompany them in the afternoon but was compelld to stop after
                                    travelling about 4 miles. I found a little spot where there was sufficient grass for
                                    my team and as the company promised to wait for me I determined not to proceed
                                    untill next morning, when my mules with a full stomach and 1/2 a days rest would be
                                    fully able to contend with any road I was likely to meet with.
                        Tuesday [July] 17. According to my previous intentions I started before day to
                                    overtake the train with which I had been journeying but on arriving at their camp I
                                    found they had been gone 1/2 an hour and as my mule continued ill I determined to
                                    remain where I was untill the remainder of the company under Captain Eikenbury came
                                    up. I spent the day in rearranging my load and throwing out all I could possibly do
                                    without. The remainder of the oxtrain arrived this day and I determined to accompany
                                    them in the morning. Weathe[r] very warm and grass very scarce withering and drying
                                    up every day. The times are rather gloomy for the emigrants and I felt accordingly
                                    anxious and sorrowfull.
                        Wednesday [July] 18. Started before the train and drove 14 miles. My sick mule gave
                                    out before I reached camp, which as usual was destitute of grass, and was strewed
                                    with the remains of waggons and their loading. I shifted my camp to Captain
                                    Eikenburys in the afternoon, for better grass. Negotiated for the purchase of a
                                    horse to strengthen my team and think I shall probably get him. Weather excessively
                                    hot.
                        Thursday [July] 19. Drove about 10 miles (I having succeeded in getting a horse) and
                                    campd on the river where as usual we found no grass—nothing but Willow
                                    Bushes for our teams to eat. The table lands extend here quite to the banks of the
                                    river and consequently Camps are far distant from each other. Drove in the afternoon
                                    till nearly dark and campd on the river. Earth coverd with saleratus and potash and
                                    the water in the ponds, the same color, and nearly as strong as ley. Let my mules
                                    run all night without a guard for the first time—all of us being weary
                                    anxious and nearly tired out.
                        
                        Friday [July] 20. Drove again this morning to another camp on the river but found but
                                    little grass—and my mule still continues ill. Started about 5 in the
                                    afternoon to avoid the heat and expecting to reach a place called the
                                    "Sleugh" represented to be distant from our camp 15 miles but we
                                    travelld till daylight next morning without finding it and our teams being tired out
                                    we were obliged to stop. We travelld nearly 28 miles during the night—no
                                    grass.
                        Saturday [July] 21st. Found the "Sleugh" this morning after a drive
                                    of 4 miles. Campd all day to rest our teams. Report of a man being shot for setting
                                    the grass on fire- numerous arrivals.
                        Sunday [July] 22. Drove 5 miles for more grass. The company left '2 waggons
                                    at this place. Drove 11 miles in the afternoon to the head of the
                                    "Sink" of the river30—Desolate
                                    country—arid sterile and barren—plenty of grass but very poor
                                    in quality on the borders of the Swamp. Mosquitoes very troublesome at night.
                        Monday [July] 23. Drove 7 or 8 miles to another camp at the lower end of the
                                    "Sink" and hearing that there was no grass below we determined to
                                    remain and rest our weary teams where there was some little grass yet to be found.
                                    Very discouraging reports about the 45 miles of Desert Country we have to cross.31 The camps are strewed with waggons and articles of every kind
                                    left by the Emigrants—4 waggons of the company left today determined to
                                    push through-most miserable water at this place and no wood except the waggons left
                                    by the Emigrants. Cut and cured a small quantity of grass for my team in passing the
                                    "Desert" Captain of the company went ahead to make discoveries.
                        
                           
                              30 In western Nevada about thirty miles north of the town
                                        of Fallon, the Humboldt River sreads itself out over the
                                        earth in what is called the Humboldt Sink. The water forms alkaline pools and
                                        either sees into the round or evaporates. The sink is actually an intermittently
                                        dry lake fed.
                           
                              31 Ahead of Berrien lay the most dreaded crossing on the 
                                            California
                                         Trail. For a good summary of what Mark Twain called "one
                                        prodigious graveyard," see Dale L. Morgan, The Humboldt:
                                            Highroad or the west (The Rivers of America, ed., Stephen Vincent Bendt
                                        and Carl Carmer; 
                                            New York
                                        , 1943), 192-196. Most accounts mention the terrible aridity of the
                                        land which extends westward from the terminus of the Humboldt Sink for
                                        approximately fifty miles until relieved by the Truckee
                                        River. It is still a forbidding stretch of ground. Motorists can
                                        hardly pass through this stark region and its alkali flats without feeling a
                                        repugnance toward nature's hostility.
                        
                        
                        Tuesday [July] 24. This morning a company of "Packers," came to our
                                    camp and during a conversation which ensued one of them mentioned the loss on the
                                    road of one of their companions who died and was buried at the Salt
                                    Lake of "mountain fever" and who to my great grief and
                                    surprise I discovered to have been my old friend Jacob Rapel[fo] for whom I was
                                    looking every day. This melancholy news joined to the gloomy prospect of the sandy
                                    Desert before us, and the weakened state of my team about which I felt great anxiety
                                    contributed to depress my spirits to their lowest ebb, and forebodings of the most
                                    sorrowfull kind continued to haunt me all day. Jacob was taken sick after leaving
                                    the upper Platte Ferry and the gentleman who mentioned his death, to me, a Dr Ormsby
                                    from 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                     told me, he hauled him a long time in his waggon, and at one time
                                    thought he would get better, but he gradually grew worse and they buried him in the
                                    Strangers Burying ground at the Mormon City About 8' O'clock we
                                    got under weigh for the "Sulphur Wells," the last water we were to
                                    find this side of the Desert. We arrived there in about 2 Hours and turned out to
                                    "water" as for grass there was none there. The Water itself was
                                    very unpleasant both to taste and smell and of a greenish color, but was cool and
                                    the cattle drank it eagerly and on the whole perhaps it was not unwholesome. Here as
                                    at every previous camp we found remnants of waggons and articles of every
                                    description scattered over the ground which the weakness of their teams made it
                                    impossible for their owners to remove. I supplied myself here with an extra sett of
                                    Harness so that I might be able to work all 5 of my animals should occasion require,
                                    and I could have easily supplied myself with a dozen. No description I can give can
                                    picture the desolate appearance of every thing here to me, but the gloomy prospect
                                    of the journey before me made me perhaps see every thing through a gloomy medium. In
                                    a notice to Emigrants which was posted in a conspicuous place for their information,
                                    occurrd these words, "We have crossd the Desert and find it 45 miles long,
                                    15 heavy sand—Be carefull to drive in the night Expect to find the worst
                                    desert you ever saw and you will find it worse than you expected."32 At 1/4 past 2 having made all our preparations, we started
                                        
                              
                                 32 Such helful and informative inscriptions were found
                                            all along the route from it. Joseph to the diggings.
                           
                                     on our journey. The weather was very warm and
                                    we drove slow in consequence. Every now and then we would pass a dead animal in the
                                    road which had given out and been left behind. A little after sundown we passd a
                                    small creek or slough of putrid poisonous water and then found ourselves on what is
                                    properly termed the "Desert" 33 miles across. Of this part of my
                                    journey I can give no description the night soon becoming so dark as to render the
                                    face of the country indistinct though I could perceive we were travelling through a
                                    sort of valley with a range of low Hills (mountains), on either hand. After
                                    travelling some little time the road became so heavy that I found it necessary to
                                    harness my extra mule to strengthen my team We continued driving without
                                    intermission till day break when one of my mules became very tired. I was compelld
                                    to stop and feed them with the Hay I had cured for them which greatly refreshed
                                    them. I also gave them a little Flour and water about a quart a peice [sic] which served to give them strength. Previous to my stopping I had
                                    passd several waggons left on the Desert, the teams having been driven forward to
                                    water and grass which was now within 15 miles—after resting about 1 1/2
                                    hours I drove on again passing a number of waggons as above described untill I got
                                    within 9 miles of the River when finding it impossible to proceed any farther with
                                    my tired team through the deep sand I was forced to leave my waggon, in charge of my
                                    partner, and drive my mules forward to water. I attempted to drive my mules before
                                    my pony but being very hungry they could not be kept together, but would wander from
                                    the road in fruitless search after grass, so that at last I was obliged to lead
                                    them, a task which I soon found was the hardest work I had ever attempted. The sand
                                    was very deep. The sun shone very hot. The mules very obstinate and anxious to bite
                                    at every bunch of Grease Wood, pulling me constantly from one side of the road to
                                    the other, and as I had walked all night I was very tired and nearly worn out and
                                    had I not procured a small drink of cold coffee from one of the waggons of our
                                    train, I must have perished before I reached the river from excessive heat and
                                    exhaustion. I arrived at the river (Carson River) about 12
                                    O'clock and my thirsty mules and myself luxuriated for a time in an
                                    abundant drink. Shortly after the cattle arrived from the train and we drove them
                                    about 3 miles up the river and crossd  them over
                                    to a small peninsula on the other side when we found some very fine grass. Here we
                                    allow'd them to remain untill the evening of the 26th when we drove them
                                    out to our waggons and hauled them into a camp about 4 miles above where we arrived
                                    with them on the morning of Friday 27. Here we found a profusion of fine grass and
                                    plenty of wood and water. We determined to remain here a day or more to rest our
                                    teams and ourselves also, as the men need repose almost as much as the debilitated
                                    and hard worked animals. Carson River is a fine stream and from
                                    what information we can procure as long as we remain on its banks (a distance of 80
                                    miles) we shall find good grass and every convenience for camping. Thus we may
                                    consider the great peril of our journey over & indulge ourselves with the
                                    prospect of a certain pleasant and speedy trip over the remaining miles we have to
                                    travel though our joy is much repressd when we think of the fate of those who are
                                    coming after us by the same road and of hardships they will be forced to endure. In
                                    the St Marys Valley the mischief is already done, for the last
                                    150 miles above the Sink it is nothing but a desert plain. What little grass there
                                    has been has dissappeared under the hoofs of a thousand hungry mules and Cattle and
                                    the effects of a burning sun on a parched ashy and alkaline soil. There is not a
                                    Spear of grass remaining but what is absolutely deleterious to animals, swelling
                                    them up with alkali and causing them to void all their flesh and strength away in a
                                    profusion of urine—and the loss of their teams and waggons are amongst
                                    the smallest hardships the Emigrants behind are bound to suffer. In order to push
                                    ahead and lighten their loads they have thrown away every thing (including
                                    provisions) which they could possibly spare, and consequently when their teams fail
                                    them, in a great many instances, sufferings of the most appalling nature will be
                                    sure to occur, and I should not be surprised if thousands lay their bones in that
                                    desert valley. The Road across the Desert is even now becoming unpleasant from the
                                    stench arising from the Carcasses of dead Cattle and Horses and every day adds to
                                    the number. Although I may consider myself as one of the fortunate, were I hired to
                                    endure the same hardships and perils and suffer the same anxieties which have
                                    occurrd to me on this trip not all the gold in 
                                        California
                                     would tempt me
                        
                        Saturday [July] 28th. Remained in camp untill the afternoon of this day when we again
                                    harnessd up our teams, proposing to cross a strip of sand Desert which we were
                                    informed was 12 miles across, and commenced 4 miles from our camp. The information
                                    we received was not correct however, for we found the road at least 20 miles long.
                                    We campd on the River late in the night with poor grass for the animals.
                        Sunday [July] 29. As our animals had but a sorry supper, we hunted about to find them
                                    some good grass which we fortunately succeeded in doing, on the opposite side of the
                                    River. We allowed them to graze untill 2 PM, when we started to cross another Desert
                                    said to be 15 miles across but which we found to be 25. Being the foremost team I
                                    reached camp at 1/2 past 10, our other teams did not arrive till 2 and three of them
                                    remained out all night. The camps on this River though distant from each other are
                                    generally good—fine water, grass, and timber with little or no alkali to
                                    poison our animals and impair their strength. The River takes its rise among the
                                    mountains of the "Sierra Nevada" and is fed by the eternal snow
                                    which is found there The water is consequently good though warm from the effects of
                                    the heated earth through which it passes. It is from 20 to 30 yards wide and deep
                                    enough to swim a horse in most places. Like the St Marys River
                                    it also has its lake or Sink and has no communication with the Ocean.
                        Monday [July] 30th Remained in camp till 4 in the afternoon when we started again on
                                    our tedious journey We had been told that 6 or 7 miles above the Road left the river
                                    and took to the Mountains, and as it was reported, there was a very difficult pass
                                    to go through at that place, we wished to get as near it as possible, so as to make
                                    an early start in the cool of the day. The pass in question was said to be but 5
                                    miles long but that it would probably take 2 days to get through it. We campd within
                                    a short distance of the point at which the road leaves the river and went to bed
                                    duly impressd with the arduous task which awaited us in the morning. Night quite
                                    cool and Snow visible on the mountains in the distance.
                        Tuesday [July] 31st. Got an early Breakfast and made an early start, this morning. We
                                    ascended and descended a very steep stony Hill near the River and then struck out
                                         across the Bluffs leaving the river on the
                                    left. We found the road very rough and stony in places and heavy with sand but we
                                    soon proved the information we had received to be incorrect for by 1 O clock we
                                    again reached the river having travelld about 10 miles. The country we passd over
                                    this morning presents a better appearance than we have seen for some time. The Hill
                                    Sides were over spread with scattering Cedar trees or Bushes. Small Springs are
                                    occasionally found, and the mountains in the distance are coverd with Pine and Fir
                                    trees. (Timber of any kind has for a long time been quite a rarity with us, not a
                                    solitary tree growing on Marys River from its source to its
                                    termination) Started again at 6 PM leaving the river and passing through a romantic
                                    looking defile between 2 mountains into a small valley where we found fine grass,
                                    fine Spring Water, and a large Hot Spring. Here we campd for the night which was
                                    unpleasantly cold.
                        Wednesday August 1st. This morning after a drive of 3 or 4 miles over a heavy Sandy
                                    road we again came in sight of the River and after we reached it we travelld up its
                                    banks untill noon. The valley itself however though covered with fine pasturage was
                                    so obstructed with sloughs and swamps that we were forced to keep on the table lands
                                    which extend from the foot of the mountains and which being composed of Sand
                                    rendered our road very hard on the cattle. We nooned by the banks of a beautifull
                                    little rulet of spring water, fresh from the mountains which was delicously cool
                                    bright and sparkling. After dinner we again got under weigh and after crossing some
                                    swampy land, and small mountain streams, we passd close by the foot of a mountain,
                                    from the base of which, a number of hot Springs issued forth, so hot as almost to
                                    scald the hand when immersed in them. We campd at a spot where the sleughs and
                                    swampy land first recedes from the mountain, leaving a large extent of well watered
                                    and fertile land coverd with fine grass, for the benefit of the jaded teams of the
                                    emigrants. We are favored with bright and beautifull moonlight nights but they are
                                    unpleasantly cold
                        Thursday August '2 Continued travelling up the valley which gradually became
                                    narrower and at noon we were opposite the spot where the River forks. Here our road
                                    began to ascend some Hills and it was plainly perceptible to all that  we must soon cross the immense mountains, which reared
                                    their lofty peaks above us. In the afternoon we arrived at the mouth of a pass or
                                    gorge in the mountains through which the right hand branch of the river issues. We
                                    proceeded up the gorge about a mile and finding a spot of good grass we campd for
                                    the night being unwilling to attempt the dangers of the rocky road, some of which
                                    were explained to us by a paper we found left on a large rock for the benefit of the
                                    emigrants. The scenery here was remarkably wild and beautifull and reminded me of
                                    pictures I have seen of Italian mountains, far surpassing
                                    anything of the kind we have met with on our route.
                        Friday [August] 3. This day will always be remembered by me as the day on which we
                                    passd through one of the most difficult dangerous and impracticable roads that can
                                    be found on the American Continent and that we did so successfully and without
                                    serious accident will always surprise me. To a person unacquainted with such a
                                    country, the feat of passing over the stupendous Hills and rocks which we
                                    encountered would appear foolhardy and hazardous in the extreme and that our waggons
                                    could be taken over in safety would be pronounced impossible. Imagine Hills of such
                                    steep ascent that 10 yoke of Cattle and the united efforts of 15 men were required
                                    to force the waggons up them, the road itself composed of rocks of all shapes,
                                    sizes, and dimensions and threatening destruction to the Waggons at every step of
                                    the way. Over these Hills and rocks the Cattle clambered frequently slipping on
                                    their knees & falling down, but jumping up again to renew their labor, urged
                                    on by the whips of the drivers which cracked like pistols. We crossd the river 3
                                    times, twice on bridges of pine logs and once we forded it. We commenced the ascent
                                    at one hour after sunrise and we succeeded in getting through at 6 in the afternoon
                                    the distance being 5 miles. The river in its whole course through this
                                    Cañon is a rushing, roaring, torrent, its channel obstructed with rocks
                                    which break its surface into a sheet of white feathery foam which sparkled in the
                                    sunlight like glittering diamonds. The Mountains on each side are most magnificent,
                                    and tower above in every variety of picturesque beauty. Immense Pine, Spruce and Fir
                                    trees clothe their sides giving a lively appearance to them and the whole taken
                                    together is one of the  grandest sights I have
                                    ever seen. After getting through the gorge we campd in a beautifull valley
                                    surrounded still by the mountains where we found an abundance of fine grass and
                                    water. Here we found a company of "Mormons" encampd who were
                                    journeying to the Salt Lake. They gave us some information
                                    about 
                                        California
                                     but as all their tales did not agree we did not put much confidence in
                                    them. Large quantities of snow are now seen on the mountain tops near us and in
                                    consequence the nights are cold.
                        Saturday [August] 4th. Remained in camp till 1 in the afternoon when we again drove
                                    some 5 miles to the commencement of another Hill we have to ascend and which is
                                    represented as being nearly as bad as the gorge we passd yesterday. While in camp a
                                    great many pack mules passd us and from one of the gentlemen with them I received
                                    news from the States up to the 27th May. He told me the cholera was raging at St
                                    Louis and all the towns on the Missouri River
                           33 and also that there had been a great fire at St Louis consuming 14 Squares
                                    out of the heart of the city besides several Steamboats He also told me that from
                                    the last information he could procure there were between 8 and 9 thousand waggons on
                                    the road for this country—the owners of which if they do not return or
                                    travel some other route will most infallibly lose their teams and perhaps their
                                    lives in this now perfectly desert Country. He himself had a waggon 150 miles back
                                    which he never expected to see and he would not go back after it for 5 times its
                                    value.
                        Sunday [August] 5th. Made an early start this morning and after driving 3 miles we
                                    arrived at the foot of the mountain ridge we had to cross. Here we found several
                                    mule waggons which had packed up their loads on the back of the mules and were
                                    waiting for their return to be drawn up. Besides these there was every species of
                                    property strewn 
                              
                                 33 By July, 1849, the cholera epidemic had brought
                                            death to many people in the cities of 
                                                St. Louis
                                             and 
                                                New Orleans
                                            . Forty-niners were among those who carried it west. John E.
                                            Baur, The Health Factor in the Gold Rush Era," Rushing
                                                for Gold, ed. Caughey, 97. Black measles and smallox, in addition
                                            to cholera, were passed on to the Plains Indians ant wrought tragic havoc
                                            amon them. J. R. Gregg, History of the 
                                                    Oregon
                                                 Trail, Santa Fe Trail and Other Trails (
                                                Portland
                                            , Ore., 1955), 201. Berrien, among the van of the Forty-niners,
                                            fortunately escaped the water-borne Asiatic cholera; an estimated four to
                                            five thousand of those who followed him fell victim to this disease. Settle,
                                                March of the Mounted Riflemen, 34n.
                           
                                     about, abandoned by the owners, who found
                                    themselves unable to carry them over the mountain—Waggons, trunks, Boxes,
                                    Axes, Gold Washers, and heavy articles of all kinds— the iron work and 2
                                    setts of Saws for a Saw mill, Harness, Horse shoes, King Bolts Crow Bars, Picket
                                    pins and other articles too numerous to mention were scattered in all directions,
                                    The Mountain itself was sufficient to damp the courage of almost any one wishing to
                                    cross it with a waggon, for the road up its side was so steep and rocky, that it was
                                    with difficulty foot men could ascend much less loaded waggons with their teams, and
                                    besides this, the difficult part of the road extended 3/4 of a mile. Beyond this the
                                    road though still steep was capable of being passd by single teams. We commenced
                                    shortly after our arrival preparing for the ascent and by putting from 10 to 12 yoke
                                    of Cattle to each waggon and pushing, pulling with ropes, and shouldering the wheels
                                    with the united force of all the company, we were able to get all our teams up by 4.
                                    O'clock P M. My waggon was the last one and was the only one that passd the
                                    mountain without unloading or doubling team. No description I can give would fully
                                    portray the difficulty of ascending this mountain or give other than a very faint
                                    idea of the horrid road up its side. It took 14 mules 1 hour to draw an empty waggon
                                    up, and there were so many stones, rocks, short turns, and trees in the way, that
                                    the teams could not draw to advantage but were continually falling down and slipping
                                    from one side of the road to the other. We accomplished the ascent of this mountain
                                    without the slightest accident though fragments of 9 or 10 waggons scattered about
                                    gave evidence of the danger we incurrd. We drove about 4 miles after this and campd
                                    in a beautifull valley where we found fine grass and a fine stream of ice cold water
                                    which emptied into a lake in its centre. We had a beautifull cloudless moonlight
                                    night but very cold and in the Morning of Monday 6th the ground was covered with
                                    white frost.
                        [Monday, August 6.] This day we had to cross the dividing ridge distant some 3 miles
                                    from our camp so getting an early Breakfast we proceeded to the foot of it where we
                                    arrived about 8 O'clock. The ascent of this mountain was not so steep as
                                    the one before described but from the swampy nature of the ground in some places
                                    (caused by the melting of the snow near the road) I found more difficulty in getting
                                         up than at the other pass, and had it not
                                    been for the kind assistance of the company I travelld with, who sent 7 or 8 men to
                                    my assistance, I should never have succeeded in getting my waggon over the mountain.
                                    I was obliged to throw out the greatest portion of my load & after my waggon
                                    was up, to pack it by hand up the mountain, and I never worked so hard in my life.
                                    From the summit of this mountain we had a very extensive view of the surrounding
                                    country to the westward which as far as the eye could reach seemed to be nothing
                                    more than a succession of rugged rocky and barren looking mountains coverd with pine
                                    trees and by their appearance discouraging us in a great degree when we brought to
                                    mind that our road lay over them. By the time I had again loaded my waggon the train
                                    had left the summit of the mountain, so I followed along in their track, and after
                                    driving some 7 miles over a very rough road, I found them encamped in a small valley
                                    through which ran a small rivulet which supplied us with delicious ice water fresh
                                    from the summit of the mountains Here after a very hard days labor we rested from
                                    our toils, and welcome was the rest to me. As usual the night was very cold and a
                                    crisp white frost covered the grass on the morning of Tuesday 7.
                        [Tuesday, August 7.] We remained in camp untill after 12 when we travelld down some
                                    very steep rocky road untill 6 o clock when we campd on the top of a ridge where we
                                    found some excellent grass and a fine spring of water called Leek spring, from the
                                    abundance of that vegetable in its vicinity. Nothing occurrd during this day worthy
                                    of special remark. The road presented the same dreary monotony of Stony Hillsides
                                    and Rocky Ridges covered with Emmense Pine trees (some of them 10 feet in diameter
                                    and at least 200 feet high[)] through which we were obliged to thread our tedious
                                    way. Our road generally lay along the top of a ridge and beneath us on each side we
                                    could look down in immense rocky chasms rugged desolate and bare of everything in
                                    the shape of vegetation except the tall pines before mentioned which looked like
                                    reeds so great was their distance beneath us.
                        Wednesday [August] 8. After travelling about 5 miles this morning we arrived at a
                                    spring in a little valley which seemed to be a general camp from the marks of camp
                                    fires in the vicinity. Here we found a notice tacked to a tree  informing us that for the next 125 miles we should find
                                    no grass, information almost sufficient to deter us from prosecuting our journey
                                    though we were fated to find the information correct for after travelling till
                                    nearly night we campd at the bottom of a long and steep ravine where there was but
                                    little water and no grass or sign of vegetation except the surrounding pine trees
                                    several Bunches of Willow and a few scattering weeds—the animals
                                    accordingly had to content themselves with a streak of lean.
                        The next morning Thursday [August] 9th we made an early start and travelld till 3
                                    O'clock when we reached the last camp in the mountains Here we were obliged
                                    to leave our waggons on the Hill and drive our stock 3 miles down the mountain to a
                                    small valley on the left for grass and water, of which there is no more to be found
                                    for the next 60 miles.
                        At this place we remained the whole of Friday [August] 10th in order to recruit our
                                    animals and cut and cure sufficient Hay to take with us the balance of the way, of
                                    this last I procured a nice quantity which I packed up to camp on the back of my
                                    Pony and I made every preparation in my power to carry all the forage I could along
                                    with me.
                        Saturday [August] 11 This day I drove in advance of the Ox train and after passing
                                    for several miles over some very rocky roads at last descended from the mountains
                                    into a valley called Pleasant Valley where as our Mormon
                                    "Guide Book" informed us we would "find the first Gold
                                    diggings, feed scarce and water plenty." Of the 2 first however we found
                                    none and of the last very little and that of a very inferior quality. I continued in
                                    advance of the train untill 2 o clock PM when I arrived at the forks of the road the
                                    right fork leading to Sutters Mills,34 the left direct to the
                                    Fort. As our train purposed to go by the "mills" I was induced to
                                    take that road, which I followed untill I came upon a collection of log Huts built
                                    near the side of a dry "water course, which either is, or empties into,
                                    "Webers Creek" I found here Col Jarrots company encamped near the
                                    creek he having selected this spot to mine for gold dust, which is 
                              
                                 34 This refers to the region of Coloma
                                                Valley where Sutter had constructed his sawmill and where
                                            James Marshall a year and a half before had first discovered gold.
                           
                                     found quite plentifully in this vicinity.
                                    Discovering here that the mill was 15 miles distant and that I could not reach it
                                    this night I determined to camp at this place which I accordingly did, feeding my
                                    mules with the hay which I had cut for them. At this place there is a Butcher shop
                                    where fresh Beef can be procured at the reasonable price of 50 cents per Ib, and a
                                    Boarding House also where the equally reasonable price of $3 pr day is
                                    asked for meals alone Everything at these diggings is at the same reasonable rates
                                    and Gold and Gold dust is the order of the day.
                        On the morning of Sunday [August] 12th 2 of Col Jarrots company came in at Breakfast
                                    time from a "placere" they had opened the day previous each with
                                    1/2 an ounce of Gold dust as the fruit of their labors. The grains of the dust were
                                    very large and about the size of small grains of corn. One friend of mine told me
                                    that for the last 6 days he had cleared from 10 to 20 dollars pr day over all
                                    expenses which last, in the gold diggings is no small item.35
                                    Being anxious to proceed to the city in order to dispose of my animals, and
                                    discovering the road I was on led me some 15 miles out of my way I determined to
                                    retrace my steps and accordingly I drove back to the forks of the road and took the
                                    direct road to the "Fort" distant about 45 miles. I drove till 2 O
                                    clock when I arrived at a Spring by the road side and being informed that for the
                                    next 25 miles I should find no water I drove my waggon down a ravine to the right of
                                    the road where I found some withered grass and turning my mules loose, remained
                                    there the Balance of the day.
                        
                           
                                        
                                 35 During the latter art of 1848 and throughout 1849,
                                            stories of 
                                                California
                                            's glistening yellow riches dazzled the world. The
                                            quantities of gold being extracted were staggering: in 1849 
                                                California
                                             yielded an estimated $10,151,360 in gold; by 1852,
                                            the most rewarding of all years, an estimated $81,294,700 was
                                            produced. Robert Glass Cleland, A History of 
                                                    California
                                                : The American Period (
                                                New York
                                            , 1922), 268. In view of the romantic aura which surrounds the
                                            Forty-niners, it should never be forgotten that "the large majority
                                            returned to 
                                                San Francisco
                                            , whence they either went home completely discouraged, or with
                                            renewed energy…." applied themselves to building 
                                                California
                                            . Stewart Edward White, The Forty-niners: A
                                                Chronicle of the 
                                                    California
                                                 Trail and El Dorado (The Chronicles of America Series,
                                            ed., Allen Johnson; 
                                                New Haven
                                            , Conn., 1921), 122.
                                        As for "expenses which … in the gold diggings is no small
                                            item," when the emigrant influx rose sharply so did the demand for
                                            food, digging equipment, etc. Without a corresponding inflow of goods,
                                            miners soon found much of their wealth drained off by inflated prices.
                                            Joseph Berrien writes as a Forty-niner before prices were at their
                                            highest—a year later the econom of 
                                                California
                                             was badly out of balance. Wyman, 
                                    
                                                    California
                                                 Emigrant letters, of 
                                                California
                                             166-167.
                                    
                        
                        
                        Monday [August] 13. On arriving at the Spring this morning I found there an
                                    acquaintance I had made on the road Major Ormsby who had campd there the preceding
                                    night I proposed, that we should travel together, but as he had not yet finished his
                                    Breakfast, he told me to drive on, and he would overtake me as he thought his mules
                                    travelld faster than mine I accordingly travelld on slowly and in about 2 Hours
                                    arrived at a small creek crossing the road which I did not expect as I had been told
                                    there was no water to be found on the road, untill we struck the American Fork.
                                    Since leaving the mountains the country has been gently rolling with no high hills
                                    and scattered over with immense oak trees which resemble apple trees in shape and
                                    decieved me more than once. In the Spring there is also plenty of grass but as it is
                                    now the dry season, everything is completely dried and parched up The country looks
                                    like one immense park and when the grass is green must be beautifull in the extreme
                                    though from the scarcity of water it will never be valuable for the purpose of
                                    cultivation. About eleven O'clock we arrived at the top of a Bluff from
                                    which we could see the great Sacramento Valley spread before us
                                    as far as the eye could reach—extending from the foot of the Bluff till
                                    the sight was lost in the mirage which arises from the plain at this season of the
                                    year, and looking like a desert which it really is, notwithstanding all that has
                                    been said to the contrary. There was scarcely a Bush in sight and no trees except on
                                    the margin of the water courses which serve to drain the water from the mountains in
                                    the rainy season but which are now dry. Descending this Bluff we proceeded on till
                                    we arrived at a "grocery" situated near some water holes in the
                                    plain where we watered our mules and also learnt that we had over 20 miles still to
                                    travel before we should reach the Rio Americano—we continued on some 5 or
                                    6 miles farther and finding some withered grass in a low spot in the plain we turned
                                    out our mules and waited till 3 PM when we started again and driving pretty sharply
                                    we hoped to reach the river by dark In this we succeeded, arriving at the river
                                    about 8 in the evening but as there was no grass where we struck it we drove on
                                    along its Banks till the darkness compelld us to stop. We found a place where we
                                    could water our mules and then picketed them out for the night, no grass.
                        
                        Tuesday [August] 14th Early this morning we found a good spot of grass near the river
                                    and as we were now near the City,36 (within 6 miles) we
                                    determined to remain untill evening before we proceeded We employd ourselves in
                                    washing and drying our clothes and in getting rid of the accumulation of dust on our
                                    bodies, not having had an opportunity before for some time, viz. since leaving
                                        Carson River. About 10. O'clock Major Ormsby
                                    arrived he not having succeeded in overtaking me on the day previous. We remained
                                    campd together untill 5 when we proceeded towards the city where we arrived just
                                    after dark and campd in an oak grove near the town. Major Ormsby found his Brother
                                    (the same gentleman I met at the Sink or Marys River) campd at
                                    this place who gave us a cordial reception, and after providing for our mules and
                                    getting our suppers, we retired to rest heartily glad that our toilsome journey was
                                    over.
                        Next morning [Wednesday,] August 15. I sold our waggon and mules for $700
                                    reserving the mule I bought on the road in which my partner has no interest. We
                                    erected our tent in the Emigrants camp37 and as we still had
                                    provisions sufficient for 1 month on hand we began to feel ourselves almost at Home.
                                    A number of our acquaintances are also campd at this place among whom are Several of
                                    my 
                                        Belleville
                                     and St Louis friends. This place tho dignified with the name of City is
                                    nothing but a collection of tents or canvass screens, 
                              
                                 36
                                            
                                                Sacramento
                                            , like 
                                                San Francisco
                                            , was a boom town of the 1840 gold rush. Earlier, John Augustus
                                            Sutter had erected his remarkable New Helvetia colony along the
                                                Sacramento River. The city of 
                                                Sacramento
                                             grew up around his fort. For Sutter the deluge of gold-seekers
                                            brought one disappointment after another. Although he died a man of only
                                            nominal means and frustrated in his efforts to obtain economic redress, he
                                            was held in high respect by many Californians. James Peter Zollinger, Sutter: The Man and His Empire (
                                                New York
                                            , 1939), 300-342.
                              
                                 37 Rodman Paul believes that exclusive of Indians the
                                            population of 
                                                California
                                             grew from approximately 20.000 at the end of 1848 to almost
                                            100,000 by the end of 1849. Paul, 
                                    
                                                    California
                                                 Gold, 23-24. In Hulbert, Forty-niners, 112, it is observed that "no one in the least
                                            knows the truth … of the actual number of emigrants, but an
                                            estimate that there were 50,000 overland Forty-niners is given. Estimating
                                            only the number of Argonauts who employed the major central route, two other
                                            authorities have arrived at the approximation of 25,000 westward moving
                                            gold-seekers in 1849. Merrill J. Mattes and Esley J. Kirk, From 
                                                Ohio
                                             to 
                                                California
                                             in 1849: The Gold Rush Journal of Elijah Bryan Farnham, Indiana Magazine of History, XLVI (September, 1950),
                                        305.
                           
                                     there not being 10 frame Buildings in the City,
                                    but there is an immense amount of business done here and the bank of the river and
                                    most of the storehouses are filled with goods and provisions which are sold at high
                                    rates. The River is navigable up to this point for vessels drawing 12 feet and a
                                    number of vessels of respectable size, Bark Ships Brigs and Schooners lie at the
                                    wharves, their masts sticking up amongst the trees which fringe the margin of the
                                    river. Now that the excitement of my trip is at an end and the pressure of anxiety
                                    and motive for undue exertions taken from me, I feel the reaction consequent upon
                                    long toil and hardship, and am weak and incapable of exertion. Although in a country
                                    where expenses are so high it is necessary to be in the way of making money to meet
                                    them, still I find I shall be obliged to rest a few days and recruit my strength
                                    before going to the "Mines"—and when I think of the
                                    great number of poor fellows who still are contending with the same hardships
                                    "by flood and field" from which I am so fortunately exempt at
                                    present, but which I found so annoying while encountering them, I feel gratefull to
                                    the power which has sustained me and suffered me to bring my long journey to a
                                    successfull conclusion.
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Early Maps of the Ohio Valley: A Selection of Maps, Plans, and
                        Views Made by Indians and Colonials from 1673 to 1783. By Lloyd Arnold Brown. (
                        Pittsburgh
                    : University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Press, 1959. Pp. xiv, 132. Bibliography. $12.00.)
            Generally speaking, this volume is a welcome addition to the literature of a much-neglected aspect of
                        Ohio Valley history. Author Brown's selections of fifty-four
                    "maps, plans, and views," some here printed for the first time, are handsomely and
                    much more legibly reproduced than is usually the case. Their usability is enhanced by commentaries
                    which include such information as description, historical setting, circumstances under which made,
                    and location of the manuscript or printed copy for each selection. A general introduction and a
                    bibliography are additional features. All of these components are presented in a very attractive
                    format for which the University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Press is to be congratulated.
            Upon closer examination, however, there are some points which detract from this favorable general
                    description. In the first place, the title of the book does not accurately describe the contents.
                    There are hardly any illustrations that can be called "views," and the
                    "made by Indians and colonials" label is misleading. According to the
                    author's own accounts, the Indians were merely the possible source of part of the
                    information appearing on some of the maps. A considerable number of the maps were drawn by explorers
                    and various officials whose temporary presence would not qualify them as
                    "colonials"; moreover, some were geographers who never set foot on New World soil
                    at all.
            In the Introduction, "La Belle Riviére," generalizations—such
                    as, "Politically and socially he [the Indian] was well organized, tribe by tribe, and
                    alliance by alliance" (p. 4)—will not be readily accepted. And classification of
                    "prehistoric man" as separate from "Indian" (p. 3) was disproved
                    long ago. This section is beautifully illustrated with some twenty marginal drawings, but almost
                    half of them are of such nonrelated items as sea monsters, Niagara Falls, sea
                    vessels, and a portion of the Pacific Ocean.
            The meat of the book consists of the maps and plans with commentaries on each. They range from a
                    Marquette map of 1674 to a Jefferson map of 1783. With more than five hundred to choose from and the
                    number to be used limited by such considerations as expense, the selection of the maps and plans
                    used is "arbitrary, and the sole responsibility of the author" (p. x). Even so,
                    one is compelled to observe that by elimination of those which have only peripheral relation to the
                        Ohio Valley and those which are virtual duplications, a half-dozen others
                    might have been substituted. And it hardly seems necessary to include some six plans of Fort
                    Duquesne, one of which is also duplicated as a sketch in the Introduction. Elimination of most of
                    these would help to correct the imbalance towards the upper Ohio Valley in the
                    book.
            
            The "selective list" of items at the end of the volume is hardly a bibliography in
                    the usual sense of the word, either of the Ohio Valley or of its maps and
                    plans. While some listings are of specific value, it is left to the reader to discover for himself
                    which of the many volumes of Mid-America or of the works of Parkman, Bancroft, or
                    Thwaites, for example, are apropos. And such works as Philip L. Phillips, A List of
                        Geographical Atlases … (
                            Washington
                        
               , 1909-), and Emerson D. Fite and Archibald Freeman, A Book of Old
                        Maps Delineating American History from the Earliest Days down to the Close of the Revolutionary
                        War (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass., 1926) are conspicuous for their absence. The bibliographical contribution of
                    this volume is found in the specific references scattered throughout the text. A briefly annotated
                    listing of the maps and plans not included would have been a valuable addition.
            This volume more than meets the modest claim of the author that it is "primarily a picture
                    book containing a brief review and summary of the cartographic record left by the men who first
                    explored and mapped the region of the 
                        Ohio
                    " (p. x). But it falls short of what it might have been.
            
               Miami University Dwight L. Smith
         
         
            
               Lewis Henry Morgan: The Indian Journals, 1859-62. Edited by Leslie A. White;
                    illustrations selected and edited by Clyde Walton. (
                        Ann Arbor
                    : University of 
                        Michigan
                     Press, 1959. Pp. 229. Numerous illustrations, notes, index. $17.50.)
            
               Dictionary of the American Indian. By John L. Stoutenburgh, Jr. (
                        New York
                    : Philosophical Library, 1960. Pp. 462. $10.00.)
            In 1859 Lewis Henry Morgan, an attorney of 
                  Rochester,
                            New York
               , with a scientific interest in
                    the North American Indians, made the first of four field trips to regions west and north of the
                        Mississippi River. Morgan's objective was to gather as much
                    general information about the Indians as he could and, specifically, to collect the kinship terms
                    used by members of various western Indian groups. On each of his four trips (to 
                        Kansas
                     and 
                        Nebraska
                     in May and June, 1859, and again in May and June, 1860; to Pembina and Fort Garry on
                    the Red River of the North in July and August, 1861; and to the Rocky
                        Mountains via the Missouri River in May, June, and July, 1862)
                    Morgan kept a detailed, day-by-day journal. It is these four journals that Leslie A. White,
                    professor of anthropology at the University of 
                        Michigan
                     and long a Morgan specialist, has edited, annotated, and written introductory chapters
                    for, and that are presented in a handsome volume by the University of 
                        Michigan
                     Press. Adding to the intrinsic value of the text itself and making the volume a de luxe
                    publication are a series of sixteen color plates, reproductions of paintings of Indians by Karl
                    Bodmer, James Otto Lewis, George Catlin, and other nineteenth-century artists, as well as over a
                    hundred illustrations which were selected and edited by Clyde C. Walton, 
                        Illinois
                     state historian.
            
            The original Morgan journals, as well as other Morgan manuscripts, now belong to the University of 
                        Rochester
                    . White, who has also published other Morgan material, is an experienced and scholarly
                    editor. In one of his introductory chapters in the present volume ("About the
                    Journals"), he makes plain what portions of the manuscripts he omitted (p.
                    22)—namely, Indian vocabularies, considerable data on the American beaver, and most of
                    Morgan's descriptions of scenery. Also omitted were the "hastily and crudely
                    executed" sketches (examples of which are shown in the plate on p. 23) which Morgan made to
                    illustrate journal material. White also notes that he rearranged some of Morgan's
                    ethnographic data. Good and sufficient reasons are given for all deletions and changes, which are of
                    course within an editor's province if, like White, he states what he has done. It is
                    regrettable, however, that "in order to economise on space" omission of so much
                    primary source material was deemed necessary.
            While many journal entries concentrate on Indian material, they are not limited to such. Conditions
                    in the pioneer settlements west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , such as those at 
                        Topeka
                     and 
                        Lawrence
                    , 
                        Kansas
                     Territory, at Pembina and Fort Garry on the Red River of the
                    North, and at many other western towns and forts are described. Means of travel and
                    Morgan's frequent meetings with missionaries, western traders, and Army officers are also
                    recorded. There is an amazing lack of reference in the journals of 1861 and 1862 to the Civil War.
            One serious fault of the book lies in its Index, which is wholly inadequate. There are only 185
                    entries listed, and the Index comprises only two three-column pages (pp. 230-231). Brief as it is,
                    it obviously was not only carelessly compiled but also assembled without any particular rhyme or
                    reason. For example, titles of several of Morgan's works appear as Index entries, but two
                    major works, Houses and House-Life of the American Aborigines (referred to on p. 11) and The
                    American Beaver and His Work (singled out by White for special reference on p. 12) do not. Neither
                    Pembina nor Fort Garry is entered, although "Omaha, city of" and Forts Benton,
                    Berthold, and Union do appear. The names of some individuals Morgan contacted (Blue Jacket, Father
                    de Smet, Ottawa Jones, for instance) appear, but the name of Isaac McCoy, Baptist missionary who is
                    mentioned and identified by White (p. 14) and whose picture appears on p. 15, does not. Furthermore,
                    incomplete references are given for many of the items which are indexed, A casual check shows that 
                        Kansas City
                    , cited only for p. 26, is also mentioned on pp. 24, 25, 27, 62, etc.
                    "Potawatomi Indians, 35-36, 58" appears, but Potawatomi Indians are also mentioned
                    on pp. 28, 30, 31, 33, etc.
            
               The Dictionary of the American Indian, by John L. Stoutenburgh, Jr., executive
                    director of the 
                        Marathon County
                     Historical Society, 
                        Wisconsin
                    , is in contrast to the Morgan book a work that lacks all scholarly apparatus. The
                    Dictionary contains an erratic series of entries from A to Z. Given, for example, are entries such
                    as "Acorn. See anafkimmens" (p. 4); "Anafkimmena. The Powhatan for
                    acorn" (p. 13); "Mother. See kick" (p. 269); "Kick. The 
                        Virginia
                     Indian term for mother" (p. 192). Lacking, for example, are entries for many
                         expectable items such as mother-in-law tabu, cross-cousin
                    marriage, sororate, couvade. Archaeology is defined as "the scientific study of the works
                    of ancient man during recent or pre-historic times, dealing mainly with man" (p. 15);
                    anthropology, ethnology, and physical anthropology are not defined. A long entry on Indian events
                    (pp. 156-160) lists such by states and seems reasonably accurate. The entry on Indian reservations
                    (pp. 160-162) lists by name, alphabetically, most present-day reservations in the 
                        United States
                     and their locations. These are the two most helpful items in the Dictionary.
            
            The Morgan Indian Journals are a lasting contribution to scholarship. The Dictionary of the American Indian is a travesty, as far as scholarship is concerned.
            
               Indiana University Erminie Wheeler-Voegelin
         
         
            
               In the Name of the People: Speeches and Writings of Lincoln and Douglas in the 
                            Ohio
                         Campaign of 1859. Edited by Harry V. Jaffa and Robert W. Johannsen. (
                        Columbus
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     State University Press, for the 
                        Ohio
                     Historical Society, 1959. Pp. x, 307. $5.00.)
            The participation by Stephen Douglas and Abraham Lincoln in the 
                        Ohio
                     campaign of 1859 constituted a sequel in different format to the better-known 
                        Illinois
                     debates of the preceding year. The protagonists had their eyes on the presidential
                    election of 1860 and welcomed the opportunity for national attention provided in the 
                        Ohio
                     legislative contest. As in 1858 the emphasis was on the status of slavery in the
                    territories and the constitutional issues involved.
            In a fifty-seven-page introduction Professor Johannsen ably sets the stage, and Professor Jaffa
                    contributes a concise and well-organized statement of "The Issues." Senator
                    Douglas is represented by his article, "The Dividing Line between Federal and Local
                    Authority," that appeared in the September issue of Harper's,
                    and his speeches at 
                        Columbus
                     (September 7), 
                        Cincinnati
                     (September 9), and Wooster (September 16). Lincoln's views are set forth in
                    terms of one of his two speeches at 
                        Columbus
                     (September 16) and his 
                        Cincinnati
                     speech on the following day. The attack by Buchanan's attorney-general,
                    Jeremiah Black, on the Senator's evolving doctrine of popular sovereignty that appeared in
                    the 
                        Washington
                    
                    Constitution on September 10 is also included.
            While this volume has special interest for students of middle-period politics, it also merits a place
                    in the literature of the great and continuing debate relative to the distribution of power in our
                    federal republic. Both the editors and the 
                        Ohio
                     Historical Society are to be congratulated on a timely and valuable publication.
            
               Indiana Historical Society Hubert H. Hawkins
         
         
         
            
               Lincoln Images: Augustana College Centennial Essays. Edited by O. Fritiof Ander.
                        Augustana Library Publications, Number 29. Edited by Ernest M. Espelie. (
                        Rock Island
                    , Ill.: Augustana College Library, 1960. Pp. xiii, 161. Illustrations, index.
                    $3.95.)
            
               John Palmer Usher: Lincoln's Secretary of the Interior. By Elmo R.
                    Richardson and Alan W. Farley. (Lawrence: University of 
                        Kansas
                     Press, 1960. Pp. 152. Frontispiece, notes, bibliography, index. $3.50.)
            
               Lincoln Imges, edited by O. Fritiof Ander, professor of history at Augustana
                    College, honors both Lincoln and the founders of Augustana College and is dedicated to Carl
                    Sandburg, a son of the Swedish immigration which founded Augustana College. This small volume is
                    written by friends and students of the late Professor James G. Randall, of the University of 
                        Illinois
                    .
            
               Lincoln Images contains two general types of essays—bibliographical and
                    analytical or interpretative. The bibliographical essays include "Books and Pamphlets in
                    the Augustana College Library," by Ernest M. Espelie, librarian at Augustana College and
                    general editor of Augustana Library Publications. Mr. Espelie has prepared a bibliography of books
                    on Lincoln found in the Augustana College library. He hopes that "it may be representative
                    of the average liberal arts college, and for that reason, of interest" (p. 137). The other
                    bibliographical essay "An Agonizing Reappraisal: ‘Has the Lincoln Theme Been
                    Exhausted?’ " by Clyde C. Walton, state historian of 
                        Illinois
                    , reappraises the essay "Has the Lincoln Theme Been Exhausted?" by
                    James G. Randall, which appeared in the American Historical Review in 1936. The
                    major part of the essay is a bibliography arranged according to the subjects of the questions raised
                    by Professor Randall, which are representative of work done since 1936.
            The analytical or interpretative essays include "Lincoln and the Causes of the Civil
                    War," by T. Harry Williams, Boyd Professor of History at 
                        Louisiana
                     State University. He examines various schools of historical interpretation and
                    challenges many beliefs held by contemporary historians. Professor Norman A. Graebner, of the
                    University of 
                        Illinois
                    , who specializes in American diplomacy concludes in "Lincoln and the National
                    Interest" that Lincoln as president, in both domestic and international situations,
                    practiced the "art of the possible" (p. 97). "This was the essence of his
                    greatness 88 wielder of the nation's military and diplomatic power" (p. 97).
            Other interpretative essays of a more specialized nature include "Lincoln and the Founders
                    of Augustana College," by Professor Ander, which describes the historical events and forces
                    that were behind the rise of the Republican party and the selection of Lincoln as its presidential
                    candidate in 1860. Ander notes the impact of these events and forces upon the founders of Augustana
                    College. Professor Robert M. Sutton, of the University of 
                        Illinois
                    , in "Lincoln and the Railroads of 
                        Illinois
                    " describes the part played by Lincoln during the "transportation
                    revolution," first as a state legislator and later as an attorney for a number of 
                        Illinois
                     lines. Finally, Professor Ralph Roske, of Humboldt State College, in "Lincoln
                    and Lyman Trumbull" traces the careers of  two adopted
                    sons of 
                        Illinois
                     who joined their fortunes with the Republicans in 1855.
            John Palmer Usher was secretary of the interior from January, 1863, to May of 1865. Mr. Richardson,
                    instructor in history at the University of 
                        Kansas
                    , and Mr. Farley, an attorney of 
                        Kansas City
                    , 
                        Kansas
                    , refer to their study as primarily an essay on the personal politics of federal
                    administrative policies during the period of the Civil War. According to the Preface, the authors
                    believe Usher fills the role of the "intermediary in history—the essential link
                    between men of ideas and the fulfillment of their intentions." A little more than half of
                    the book takes Usher from his birth in western 
                        New York
                     in 1816, through his early legal career in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana, to his resignation from the Lincoln cabinet in May, 1865. The remainder of
                    the volume is devoted to Usher's career as solicitor for 
                        Kansas
                     railroads until his death in 1889. The authors have done remarkably well in this short
                    biography considering the limitations of (1) lack of information on Usher, (2) the
                    subject's reticent character, and (3) the fact that Usher was not in the forefront of
                    events of his time. A useful bibliography, index, and notes are included.
            
               Purdue University Paul E. Million, Jr.
         
         
            
               A Catalog of the Alfred Whital Stern Collection of Lincolniana in the Library of
                        Congress. (
                        Washington
                    : Library of Congress, 1960. Pp. xi, 498. Frontispiece, index. $15.00.)
            Alfred Whital Stern, of 
                        Chicago
                    , has given to the Library of Congress approximately seven thousand items relating to
                    Abraham Lincoln and his times. This collection is the largest ever assembled by one person. The
                    accomplishment is all the more remarkable when Mr. Stern confesses to have begun as late as 1923.
                    When the Library of Congress began preparing this Catalog in 1958, the collection amounted to 5,200
                    items, which are faithfully listed and explained. Consequently the Catalog (also provided by Mr.
                    Stern) is an important new tool in itself: a careful bibliography, an encouragement to other
                    collectors, and an inducement to scholars to re-examine the Lincoln theme in the convenient body of
                    literature Mr. Stem has brought together and made available.
            Two Lincoln experts have assured this reviewer that a good, basic source collection on Abraham
                    Lincoln would number less than fifty titles; that beyond this total one encounters later editions of
                    the same titles, selections, translations, interpretations by others, endless repetitions, slight
                    allusions, myths, etc., etc. Mr. Stern's collection of Lincolniana, obviously, is much more
                    than a gathering of Lincoln's published writings. Indeed, that section of the Catalog, with
                    all its variant editions, translations, selections, and facsimiled letters, numbers only 266 titles.
                    The only significant lacuna is the "autobiographical" sketch that appeared in the
                        
                  
                            Chester County
                         Times (
                        Chester
                    , Pa.) of February 11, 1860. It should never be forgotten that these entries are the
                    source materials on Lincoln; everything else is secondhand.
            
            But the importance and attraction of Lincoln is the effect he had on the events of his time and the
                    influence he has had on others since his death. These effects are the measure of the man's
                    greatness, and this is the measure taken by Mr. Stern in his voluminous collection. The more than
                    two hundred memorial sermons after the President's assassination, for instance, are one
                    indication of the nation's sense of loss. "Works about Lincoln, the Civil War,
                    Etc." include more than 4,400 titles. The quantity is not surprising when two such popular
                    topics are combined. Then there are broadsides, sheet music, cartoons, half a dozen letters, stamps,
                    coins, medals, sculpture, and various ephemera. Finally, there are the Volk bronze casts of
                    Lincoln's head and hands.
            Almost every entry contains an explanatory note of identification and provenance. The corresponding
                    number in Jay Monaghan's monumental Lincoln Bibliography, 1839-1939, is
                    cited. By the use of three sizes of type the entries are clear and easy to read. An informal
                    photograph of Stern forms the frontispiece, undoubtedly over his protest, for he has been a most
                    self-effacing collector and donor. The nation stands in his debt.
            
               William L. Clements Library University of 
                            Michigan
                        
                Howard H. Peckham
         
         
            
               The Trumpet Soundeth: William Jennings Bryan and His Demooracy, 1896-1912. By
                    Paul W. Glad. (Lincoln: University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1960. Pp. xii, 242. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical essay, chronology,
                    index. $4.75.)
            William Jennings Bryan has stood in need of re-evaluation and reinterpretation for almost a
                    generation. He was a master orator and lecturer, spokesman for millions of midwestern Americans, and
                    three times the Democratic standard-bearer as well as the acknowledged leader of his party. Yet many
                    Americans remember him only as the "ludicrous anachronism" at the Scopes evolution
                    trial. In this timely and well-written monograph Paul W. Glad re-examines a portion of
                    Bryan's career and attempts to assess his contributions within the context of his own time
                    and culture.
            The McGuffey Reader, evangelical Protestantism, and the circuit Chautauqua are found as the keys to
                    Bryan's system of values and moral convictions. Growing up in the midst of the agrarian
                    unrest of the late nineteenth century, Bryan unquestioningly championed the embattled farmers with
                    the same moralistic fervor that he had observed at rural camp meetings. To these people he became a
                    symbol and the prophet of their faith. He expressed their hopes, shared their fears, and denounced
                    their foes.
            In this atmosphere of political revivalism Glad discusses and evaluates Bryan's principles
                    and objectives during his years as leader of the opposition from 1896 to 1912. In order, he examines
                    Bryan's relation to the leading questions of the period and his reaction to the policies of
                    the McKinley, Roosevelt, and Taft administrations. Overriding the specific issues was
                    Bryan's insistance on a moral view of public affairs and a deep faith in popular democracy.
            
            The author experiences some difficulty in organizing the book topically according to ideas, for Bryan
                    was not a logical thinker. As a result, some of the sections are a bit repetitious. Bryan was the
                    popularizer and evangelist for the cause, carrying the message to the grass roots of the population.
                    The major issues of the Progressive era, such as direct elections, honesty in politics, tax reform,
                    antitrust legislation, conservation, and labor reforms, were all common currency in reform circles
                    and not identified with Bryan. The four causes that he espoused most fervently—free
                    silver, anti-imperialism, federal licenses for great corporations, and public ownership of
                    railroads- were not adopted. Nor was Bryan in a position to make his opposition to Republican
                    policies effective, for he held no public office during the years between 1896 and 1912. In
                    comparison to Theodore Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson, or Robert La Follette, Bryan represented a
                    narrower segment of the population, was less original in his thinking, and had less opportunity to
                    influence positively the course of reform. Nevertheless, as Paul Glad concludes, Bryan played a
                    major role in the Progressive movement. He dominated his party and largely dictated the party
                    platform in four elections. Many of the reforms he advocated eventually became law. And above all,
                    he expressed to the general public the convictions and ideals of millions of residents of the Middle
                    Border.
            This is a welcome book. It is well-designed, attractively printed, and copiously illustrated.
                    Unfortunately the footnotes are placed at the end of the text where they will be lost to all but a
                    few readers. It is hoped that Mr. Glad will follow this study with a new full scale biography of the
                    Great Commoner.
            University of Southampton Southampton, 
                        England
                     Robert S. Maxwell
         
         
            
               On Plays, Playwrights, and Playgoers: Selections from the Letters of Booth Tarkington
                        to George C. Tyler and John Peter Toohey, 1918-1925. Edited by Alan S. Downer. Occasional Publications Sponsored by the Friends of the 
                            Princeton
                         Library. (
                        Princeton
                    , 
                        N.J.
                    : 
                        Princeton
                     University Library, 1959. Pp. vi, 100. Illustrations, index. $3.00.)
            Representing 
                        Princeton
                    's 1957 acquisition of Tarkington's letters to Toohey interspersed
                    with selected letters to Tyler, On Plays, Playwrights, and Playgoers provides an
                    excellent case history of the professional playwright as well as remarkable portrait of the lively
                    Gentleman from Indiana—Booth Tarkington.
            Ranging from March, 1919, to November, 1921, the major portion of the collection was sent to John
                    Peter Toohey, who worked as publicity agent for George C. Tyler, producer of many of
                    Tarkington's most successful plays. Toohey was just beginning his career as a fiction
                    writer, and the collection not only presents Tarkington's friendly advice to a young author
                    but also covers the period of his most significant development as playwright. During the war years,
                    demands for a "new realism" in the American theatre motivated the change from the
                         theatrical, situation-centered play to the psychological,
                    character-centered drama. As a successful playwright in the Old School (The Man from
                        Home, 1908) and faced with the new attitude, Tarkington, as comic dramatist, eventually
                    arrived at his own answer: the shaping of an actor into a dramatic character. On Plays,
                        Playwrights, and Playgoers—as edited by Professor Downer—successfully
                    describes Tarkington's dramatic approach. The following actors formed the bases for plays
                    created during this period from 1918-1925: Alfred Lunt, Clarence (1919); George Arliss, Poldekin (1920); Helen Hayes, The Wren (1921); Billie Burke and Lunt,
                        The Intimate Strangers (1921).
            In addition to Tarkington's growth as playwright, the collection reveals a dynamic image of
                    Tarkington the man: trenchant, shrewd, witty. Now and again he aptly described the various
                    techniques of the novel, stage play, film; and he rarely hesitated to flay his critics. For example,
                    H. T. ("Hell-To-Pay") Parker of the 
                        Boston
                    
                    Evening Transcript was "that horrible self-puffed bag of noise in 
                        Boston
                    " (p. 36). Although he understood the necessity of audience appeal-"a
                        play's got to be popular or it's only a script in a
                    cupboard" (p. '75)-he once suggested that films were "done for
                    morons" (p. 92). Throughout the collection, Tarkington's acute observation extends
                    even to himself and demonstrates his innate sense of proportion and humor. When Helen Hayes visited
                    the Tarkingtons in 
                        Maine
                     during the writing of The Wren, the playwright described his own behavior as that of
                    "a nervous old hen with a young and irresponsible duckling-especially when she went in the
                    surf" (p. 78). Thus, On Plays, Playwrights, and Playgoers provides an
                    informative and entertaining study of Booth Tarkington, Indiana playwright.
            
               Indiana University Eugene K. Bristow
         
         
            
               The Republican Party and Wendell Willkie. By Donald Bruce Johnson. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1960. Pp. ix, 354. Bibliography, index. $5.50.)
            No greater enigma has appeared on the twentieth-century American political scene than Wendell L.
                    Willkie, "the barefoot boy from Wall Street." A registered Democrat as late as
                    1938, this outspoken utility president found himself two years later the Republican presidential
                    nominee. Donald Bruce Johnson, political scientist at the State University of 
                        Iowa
                    , in an absorbing analysis of Willkie and the Republican party explains this remarkable
                    phenomenon-the political emergence of this dynamic Hoosier, the "miracle" of his
                    nomination, his subsequent unsuccessful election campaign, and the critical period which followed.
                    The volume is not a biography in the usual sense, but rather an account of the basic conflict
                    between "liberalism" and "conservatism" within the Republican
                    party from 1939, when Willkie first appeared on the national political scene, to his death in 1944.
                    It is the story of the impact of a man upon his party and upon his times.
            The author credits Willkie with three major contributions to his party-the adoption of international
                    cooperation, the acceptance of a more "liberal" domestic policy, and the inception
                    of a strong civil rights  program. Such widespread influence
                    might be seriously questioned. Though titular head of the opposition party for four years, Willkie
                    was at no time its effective leader. His role was more that of a stepping-stone between two eras of
                    Republicanism than that of a bridge as Johnson characterizes it.
            In 1940 Willkie gambled upon a "me-too" program. Confident that he could hold
                    conservative Republican voters, he set out to attract those who had supported Roosevelt four years
                    before. To accomplish this he accepted the New Deal program in large measure, objecting only to some
                    of the means employed to bring about the necessary social ends. The result was, as one columnist put
                    it, a hopeless attempt to "out Santa Claus, Santa Claw." A widely accepted notion
                    among Republicans is that Willkie lost the election because his acceptance of New Deal reforms and
                    the Roosevelt foreign policy prevented the American people from voicing their opposition to either.
                    When faced with the necessity of choosing between two individuals of almost identical views, the
                    choice of the more experienced man was inevitable. Others hold that Willkie's refusal to
                    accept the golden rule of politics—unswerving party loyalty—cost him the
                    election. Johnson disputes these arguments, asserting that because he faced the master politician of
                    the age in a time of growing international crisis, he was destined for defeat regardless of the
                    course he followed.
            Wendell Willkie's leadership was hailed by President Roosevelt as a decisive force during
                    World War II and in the establishment of the United Nations. Willkie's book, One World,
                    although it envisioned a world too full of idealism to become a reality, became the bible of
                    internationalism and cast its author in the role of prophet. Ironically Willkie is almost
                    universally acclaimed by Democrats today as a man of courage and vision, while many Republicans
                    still consider him an anathema.
            The Republican Party and Wendell Willkie is a well-written and satisfactorily documented volume.
                    Although the narrative is occasionally too heavily laden with details and not always free from
                    trivial errors, it is the work of a competent political scientist. Based primarily on secondary
                    works, Johnson's research has, however, disclosed nothing new. There is no mention of the
                    Willkie papers, if such exist, or of the correspondence of the Associated Willkie Clubs of America,
                    which remains closed to public scrutiny. Perusal of both these primary sources will be essential
                    before a truly definitive work on Willkie and the period, 1939-1944, can be written.
            
               Indiana University Herbert J. Rissler
         
         
            
               Cumulative Voting: An Effective Electoral Device in 
                            Illinois
                         Politics. By George S. Blair. 
                  
                            Illinois
                         Studies in the Social Sciences, Volume 45. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1960. Pp. xi, 145. Tables, maps, bibliography, index. Clothbound,
                    $3.50; paperbound, $2.50.)
            "This study is devoted to an analysis of the system of cumulative voting and the effects of
                    this system as reflected in the membership of the 
                        Illinois
                     House of Representatives for the period 1872-1954" (p. v).  In the years preceding 1872 the Republicans normally won a large
                    majority of state legislative seats from the northern half of 
                        Illinois
                    , while the Democrats held a similar advantage in the southern half of the state. This
                    situation gave the Democrats relatively few legislative seats from the northern area, and the
                    Republicans in the southern sector faced a comparable problem. Moreover, this peculiar distribution
                    of seats resulted in a north-south sectionalism within 
                        Illinois
                     based on Republican control in the north and Democratic dominance in the south.
            Cumulative voting was instituted in an effort to give the Democrats from northern 
                        Illinois
                     an increased number of seats in the state house of representatives and to give a
                    similar increase to Republicans in the southern part of the state. "For the period covered
                    in this study, the state was apportioned into 51 senatorial districts; one senator and three
                    representatives were elected from each district. In the election of representatives, each voter had
                    three votes which he could cast in any one of four ways. First, he could cumulate his votes by
                    giving all three to a single candidate. Second, he could divide his votes equally between two
                    candidates by giving each candidate a vote and a half. Third, he could split his votes three ways by
                    giving one vote to each of three candidates. Fourth, he could split his votes two ways by giving one
                    vote to one candidate and two votes to a second candidate" (P. v).
            Blair clearly believes that cumulative voting has been effective in 
                        Illinois
                    , the only state, he says, in which it has been used. He cites arguments pro and con
                    concerning cumulative voting, but both his explicit and implicit conclusions are favorable to the
                    system for 
                        Illinois
                    . This reviewer, however, believes that Blair has at times ascribed results to
                    cumulative voting which may have developed from other factors and circumstances. This study should
                    interest Hoosiers for two reasons. First, it was originally written as a doctoral thesis at
                    Northwestern University under Professor Charles S. Hyneman, who is now a member of the faculty at
                    Indiana University, where he is continuing his long-term study of voting behavior and patterns in
                    various states. In the second place, during the Civil War era Indiana also showed signs of
                    developing a north-south sectionalism between Democrats and Republicans much like the 
                        Illinois
                     pattern which led to the practice of cumulative voting. Apparently, however, political
                    sectionalism was less pronounced in Indiana than in 
                        Illinois
                     because of such factors as population origin and distribution and the nature of
                    Indiana's economic development.
            
               Indiana University Donald F. Carmony
         
         
            
               Origin of the American Revolution, 1759-1766. By Bernhard Knollenberg. (
                        New York
                    : The Macmillan Co., 1960. Pp. viii, 486. Appendices, notes, bibliographies, index.
                    $8.50.)
            The title of this book is significantly singular. Bernhard Knollenberg has found the origin of the
                    American Revolution, and he has done it without a single reference to the 
                        Boston
                     Massacre, the Quartering Act, or the Declaration of Independence. George Washington is
                    mentioned only briefly on six different pages. On the other hand, it requires  seven lines in the index to list the references to Sir Jeffery Amherst,
                    and one finishes reading this book with the distinct impression that the British general had more to
                    do with bringing on the American Revolution than did Sam Adams.
            Knollenberg's thesis is forthrightly stated in the eleven pages of the Introduction.
                    Americans revolted against the series of "provocative British measures" adopted
                    between 1759 and 1765. The relation. ship between colonies and mother country prior to 1759 had been
                    reasonably satisfactory and might have endured "for many generations, perhaps even to this
                    day" had not these disastrous innovations been attempted. Knollenberg devotes the bulk of
                    his book (fifteen chapters, pp. 12-184) to a detailed analysis of the policies which were put into
                    effect during the seven fateful years and which drove the colonists to the brink of rebellion. Then,
                    on page 184, he summarizes the situation in 1765 succinctly. "Hard times: British warships
                    patrolling the American coast to break up the once flourishing trade with the foreign West Indies;
                    British officials in the interior enforcing uneconomic and confiscatory laws against the cutting of
                    white pine; the highest prelate of the Church of 
                        England
                     encouraging measures alarming and offensive to colonial Dissenters; drastic steps by
                    the Board of Trade and Privy Council to curtail home rule in the royal colonies; a British
                    commander-in-chief embroiling a number of colonies in one of the most costly Indian wars in their
                    history and then failing to protect the frontier settlers or even to punish the rebel Indians; and,
                    above all, the recent acts of Parliament levying taxes towards the upkeep of a large, un-requested,
                    and ineffective force of British troops stationed in North America and imposing new and severe
                    restrictions on colonial trade and currency-this was the accumulation of grievances giving rise to
                    the surge of protest by British colonists of North America, individually and through their
                    legislatures, to which we now turn."
            In six more chapters (pp. 185-237), Knollenberg describes colonial protests made in a vain effort to
                    turn aside the threat of the Stamp Act and the virtually spontaneous decision made by Americans to
                    nullify 
                        England
                    's efforts to collect this "internal" tax from them. This
                    controversy, in Knollenberg's opinion, defined the issue and virtually forecast the result.
                    All the rest was epilogue. Indeed, "Epilogue" is the title that he gives to a
                    final but unnumbered chapter in which he carries a fast-running account of events from the fall of
                    Grenville's ministry to the battles of 
                        Lexington
                     and Concord, after which "there seemed to be no alternative for either side
                    but to fight to the bitter end-an end not reached for eight tragic years of war and mounting hatred
                    between two peoples having so many reasons to be friends" (p. 252).
            It is not until he reaches this final sentence that Knollenberg betrays his 
                        Quaker
                     origins. Up to this point he is almost belligerent in denouncing English tyranny and
                    defending American opposition to it. His mastery of the documents renders him very persuasive, but
                    there are some serious omissions in the argument. Thus, in dealing with Grenville's
                    "new" policy of rigidly enforcing the trade laws and refusing to consider a
                    revenue voluntarily raised by colonial assemblies in lieu of stamp duties, the author ignores the
                    flagrant violation of the Navigation Acts of which colonial merchants had been guilty during the  French War, as well as the marked reluctance which colonial
                    legislators had shown in voting taxes for the prosecution of this critical conflict. In other words,
                    although Knollenberg tells his half of the story remarkably well, it is still only half the story.
            On this score, it is interesting to compare Knollenberg's book with Professor Lawrence Henry
                    Gipson's contribution to the New American Nation Series, The Coming of the
                        Revolution. The two historians are agreed as to when the Revolution really took place:
                    Knollenberg devotes nearly all of his book and Gipson more than three-fourths of his to the period
                    prior to the repeal of the Stamp Act. But otherwise there is little resemblance; Knollenberg is as
                    critical of British policy as Gipson is apologetic for it. Their respective attitudes toward the
                    decision to garrison Britain's newly-won empire with an army of 10,000 regulars are in
                    startling contrast. Gipson regarded this decision as not only defensible but absolutely requisite
                    because of the Indian menace dramatized by Pontiac's Rebellion and the colonial
                    militiaman's inveterate prejudice against garrison duty. Knollenberg regards the decision
                    as indefensible because it made no provision for the use of colonial troops and because the British
                    regulars were virtually useless against Indians. Take your choice.
            In spite of these caveats, the reviewer has thoroughly enjoyed reading
                    Knollenberg's book, which is full of erudite scholarship, and is inclined to agree with its
                    major premise—that the fatal policies adopted by Bute, Grenville, and Townsend fractured
                    the British Empire. Moreover, he admires the audacity of an author who answers in five pages three
                    of the most nagging questions still asked about the Revolution. First answer: the cession of 
                        Canada
                     and the consequent liberation of the colonists from fear of French attack did not, as
                    so many Englishmen believed, stimulate an already existent desire for independence. Such an idea had
                    never occurred to the colonists (pp. 6-10). Second answer: the island and mainland British colonies
                    which did not join the Revolution, and which outnumbered those that did, remained loyal to 
                        England
                     for obvious reasons—economic advantage, dependence upon British protection,
                    or sheer backwardness (pp. 10-11). Finally, the fateful decisions taken in the years 1759-1765,
                    which so enraged the Americans, grew out of "the distracted state of British
                    politics," the inexperience of new leaders such as Bute and Grenville, and the disturbing
                    influence of John Wilkes. These conclusions may be very sound, but historians will welcome a great
                    deal of additional research in these areas before the final verdict is accepted.
            
               Otterbein College Lynn W. Turner
         
         
            
               The Mexican War. By Otis A. Singletary. The 
                            Chicago
                         History of American Civilization. Edited by Daniel J. Boorstin. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1960. Pp. vii, 181. Maps, illustrations, chronology, list of suggested reading,
                    index. $3.75.)
            Into the restricted confines of a 162-page text, Professor Singletary, of the University of 
                        Texas
                    , has packed a simplified but scholarly version of one of the most significant wars in
                    the history of the Western Hemisphere. It may be objected that sometimes the combatants seem a  bit cramped by space limitations, more so in fact than by the
                    terrain. The artillery duel of Palo Alto and the next day's engagement of Resaca de la
                    Palma, for example, are allotted a total of only three pages. The fighting at Cerro Gordo rates a
                    single page, while Winfield ("Old Fuss and Feathers") Scott's entire
                    campaign from his base at 
                        Vera Cruz
                     to the gates of 
                        Mexico
                     City is contained in approximately three-quarters of one of the book's seven
                    chapters. Obviously, this is not a work to be consulted by specialists intent on evaluating most or
                    all of the military details of 1846 and 1847. But it does provide a suitable survey for persons
                    whose interest is more general, and also a convenient introduction for those who may later turn to
                    Justin H. Smith's The War with 
                            Mexico
                        
                and to Robert S. Henry's The Story of the Mexican
                    War.
            
            The Singletary contribution, however, offers substantially more than what has been indicated above.
                    Several of the most critical major battles are described with color as well as clarity. There is
                    also sharp differentiation between the important and the less important. Quite properly, in the
                    opinion of this reviewer, the 
                        Texas
                     author has devoted more than half the volume to such vital topics as diplomacy,
                    domestic politics, personality clashes, finance, and geography. "Thrust to the
                    Pacific" is the title given to the Kearny, Doniphan, and 
                        California
                     phases, while a valuable dimension is added in the chapter headed "The Hidden
                    War." If "What to omit?" and "What to include?" are
                    often problems in allied disciplines, they are especially prevalent in Clio's realm.
                    Professor Singletary has solved his share of them with a commendable degree of concentration on
                    causes, results, and explanations of the "Why?" instead of being content with
                    narration pure and simple. Considering the relatively few words presented, a really remarkable
                    amount of ground has been covered conscientiously and with superior intelligence.
            
               The Mexican War, as delineated here, fits neatly into the pattern of The 
                            Chicago
                         History of American Civilization—even though Texans and others in 
                        Mexico
                     frequently appeared to be anything but civilized. Passing years have brought
                    perspective to what formerly was an arena of partisanship and chauvinistic nationalism. If digging
                    in primary source materials will long remain the historian's most serious challenge, the
                    need for new syntheses is likewise a constant—and it is the synthesist's calm
                    judiciousness that Singletary projects in The Mexican War.
            
            
               University of 
                            Kentucky
                        
                Holman Hamilton
         
         
            
               Government Promotion of American Canals and Railroads, 1800-1890. By Carter
                    Goodrich. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 1960. Pp. x, 382. Map, table, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $7.50.)
            Professor Goodrich has written an interesting and significant book. It is a study of the role of
                    government—federal, state, and local—in relation to the building of
                    "internal improvements" in the 
                        United States
                     from about 1800 until the completion of the basic railway network near the end of the
                    nineteenth century. Since "its principal concern is with the cases in which the users of
                    the improvement were to pay  for the services rendered"
                    (p. 5), attention is centered on canals and railroads rather than on the merchant marine, river and
                    harbor improvements, and roads. The volume's "main theme is the relation between
                    public and private activity in the creation of canals and railroads" (p. 5).
            Piercing the Appalachian barrier was perhaps the major achievement in the development of internal
                    improvements during the period preceding the Civil War. In fact, all things considered, this
                    achievement was in some respects even greater than the extension of railroads across the Great
                    Plains and over the Rockies in the generation following the Civil War. Goodrich offers a surprising
                    amount of detail about internal improvements throughout the 
                        United States
                    , though he indicates in the Preface that much study remains to be done. The material
                    concerning Indiana, for instance, seems to be less complete than desirable. Unfortunately both Logan
                    Esarey's Internal Improvements in Indiana (1912) and R. Carlyle
                    Buley's The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period, 1815-1840 (2 vols., 1950) are
                    missing from the bibliography. These omissions are made a bit more conspicuous than they otherwise
                    might have been by the inclusion of Ernest L. Bogart's Internal Improvements
                        and State Debts in 
                            Ohio
                        
                (1924), John H. Krenkel's 
                  
                            Illinois
                         Internal Improvements, 1818-1848 (1958), and numerous other state and regional
                    studies.
            Shortage of local capital, meager experience with large-scale corporate enterprise, and the
                    "developmental" character of projects approved are listed as major factors
                    inducing governmental participation in canal and railroad building. Goodrich warns
                    that one must be wary of sweeping generalizations about views of political parties on internal
                    improvements. He credits, however, the Jeffersonian Republicans with providing the first important
                    impetus to governmental support of internal improvements, and he notes that at times even certain
                    Whigs were critical of such support. Both the Jacksonian Democrats as well as their National
                    Republican-Whig rivals favored governmental support of internal improvements in the 1830's,
                    Goodrich avers, but they disagreed on whether such promotion should be principally by the federal
                    government or mainly by the state governments. Convincing evidence is offered to sustain the view
                    that state and local governmental support of canals and railroads far outstripped federal support
                    thereof, 1800-1890. The role of the states was especially important in the first half of the century
                    and that of local governments in the decades following the Civil War.
            Goodrich has marshaled massive data, studied it with care, and reserved most of his interpretation
                    for his final chapter. This last chapter is a thoughtful review of the role and impact of
                    governmental enterprise in the development of transportation facilities in the 
                        United States
                     during the nineteenth century. The book is well organized and very readable. Some of
                    Professor Goodrich's younger colleagues in economics who tend to overuse jargon and
                    complicated nomenclature in speaking and writing could profitably study and follow his example.
            
               Indiana University Donald F. Carmony
         
         
         
            
               The Electric Interurban Railways in America. By George W. Hilton and John F.
                    Due. (
                        Stanford
                    , Calif.: 
                        Stanford
                     University Press, 1960. Pp. ix, 463. Maps, tables, charts, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliographical note, indices. $9.60.)
            This volume reviews the intriguing history of a long neglected era in American transportation, that
                    of the electric interurban. In this excellent economic analysis of the industry, Professors Hilton
                    and Due define interurbans as railways that possessed the following four characteristics: (1)
                    electric power, (2) primary emphasis on passenger service, (3) equipment both heavier and faster
                    than urban streetcars, and (4) operation on city streets and at the sides of roads or on private
                    rights of way in rural areas. In the development of intercity passenger service the interurban
                    provided an important transitional step from almost complete reliance on the railroad to equally
                    great dependence on the automobile. In the first years of this century as America witnessed the
                    arrival of both the automobile and the electric interurban, the more enthusiastic reception was
                    clearly given to the interurban. A major investment boom occurred in the interurban industry in the
                    very years that bankers were refusing the financial requests of Henry Ford and W. C. Durant.
            Between 1901 and 1908 more than nine thousand miles of interurban lines were constructed in the
                    nation, and hundreds of local companies were dreaming of building intercity lines that would steal
                    local passenger traffic away from the railroads. Many of the dreams were not realized, and others
                    never should have been. Perhaps the instance in which the gap between intention and achievement was
                    greatest was the case of the 
                  Chicago-New York
                Electric Airline Railroad, a line which
                    hoped to offer ten-hour service over a nearly straight and level route between the two cities. The
                    insistence on low grades helped bring financial disaster to the company as it built a colossal fill
                    in crossing Coffey Creek, a small stream a few miles east of Gary, Indiana. In 1909 the short
                    mileage completed on the Airline had cost over $300,000 a mile to build, and the gross
                    revenues per mile of road were under $1,000! But many lines, with less stringent
                    engineering standards, were soon in operation, most of them in the northeastern section of the
                    nation. When the peak mileage of 15,580 miles was reached in 1916, nearly two-thirds of the total
                    was located in the six states of 
                        Illinois
                    , Indiana, 
                  Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania
               , and 
                        New York
                    . One could travel by interurban from Elkhart Lake, 
                        Wisconsin
                    , to Oneonta, 
                        New York
                    , a distance of 1,087 miles. Indiana, which was second in mileage only to 
                        Ohio
                    , boasted 1,825 miles of line and had thirteen different interurban routes radiating out
                    of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Every Hoosier city of over 5,000 population was served by interurban except
                            three—
                  Bloomington, Madison
               , and 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            But the profits and prosperity hoped for rarely materialized. Even in the beat years the rate of
                    return for the interurban industry was a bare 3 per cent, only about two-thirds that of steam
                    railroads. By the years of World War I the automobile was taking away some business, although C. L.
                    Henry, a pioneer promoter of Indiana interurbans, in a speech in 1916 insisted that automobile
                    riding was but a passing fad. After the war, expanding auto traffic brought increased operating  ratios, frequent deficits, and the start of extensive
                    abandonment. Over 6,000 miles of line were abandoned in the years 1930-1934, and by 1941 a network
                    of less than 3,000 miles remained. Today real interurban passenger service has entirely ceased, and
                    the remaining freight service is not important.
            This volume covers nearly every aspect of the interurban. The authors carefully trace the rise of the
                    industry, review its technology, and cover both passenger and freight operations. Unlike railroads,
                    the bulk of the interurban traffic was in the passenger field, but in the twenties as the intercity
                    bus appeared, interurban freight business enjoyed a relative increase. Hilton and Due also examine
                    the relations of the industry with local, state, and national government, pointing out that in those
                    relationships regulation was far more common than assistance. There are also solid chapters on
                    interurban finance and the decline and abandonment of the industry.
            In addition to the chapters of economic analysis, a major portion of the book is given over to
                    thumbnail accounts of more than three hundred individual interurbans in some forty states. Company
                    histories of at least twenty different Indiana interurbans are found here, including the line that
                    was reduced to such dire circumstances in the depression of the thirties that it paid its workers
                    partly with fare tokens. The company histories are accompanied by excellent maps. Useful charts and
                    tables are found throughout the text, and the volume is further enlivened by a section of some three
                    dozen illustrations. George Hilton and John Due have written a book that should be welcomed not only
                    by the student of transportation history but by anyone interested in the twentieth-century American
                    scene.
            
               Purdue University John F. Stover
         
         
            
               The CIO Challenge to the AFL: A History of the American Labor Movement,
                    1935-1941. By Walter Galenson. Wertheim Publications in Industrial Relations,
                        Studies in Labor-Management History. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1960. Pp. xix, 732. Tables, illustrations, notes, index.
                    $9.75.)
            
               American Labor. By Henry Pelling. The 
                            Chicago
                         History of American Civilization. Edited by Daniel J. Boorstin. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1960. Pp. vi, 247. Illustrations, chronology, list of suggested reading, index.
                    $5.00.)
            The period from the formation of the CIO to the entrance of the 
                        United States
                     into the second World War was one of the most significant in the history of the
                    American labor movement. Not since its struggle with the Knights of Labor had the leadership of the
                    AFL been seriously challenged. Its refusal at the 1935 convention to accept the principle of
                    industrial unionism, however, marked the beginning of a period of interunion conflict which was to
                    last for two decades.
            Under the dynamic leadership of the CIO, unions and collective bargaining were soon established in
                    the mass production industries, and for a time it appeared that the CIO might surpass its older
                    rival.  After a brief period of stunned inactivity, however, the
                    AFL responded to the challenge with renewed vigor and greater flexibility. Economic recovery, the
                    sympathetic attitude of the New Deal, and the rivalry between the AFL and the CIO served not only to
                    extend the boundaries of unionism into new areas but also to greatly increase union strength in
                    previously organized sectors of the economy. As the author points out in the Preface, it is no
                    exaggeration to say that this period witnessed a fundamental, almost revolutionary change in the
                    power relationships of American society.
            It is to the interpretation of the dramatic events of this crucial period of American labor history
                    that Professor Galenson brings a career-long interest in the conflict between the AFL and the CIO.
                    The organization of the book is simple. The first chapter deals with the establishment of the CIO
                    and the history of its tortuous peace negotiations with the AFL. This is the best account of the
                    early relationships between the industrial union forces, led by John L. Lewis, and the AFL that this
                    reviewer has seen.
            Chapters two through eighteen are concerned with the development of unionism in particular
                    industries. In these chapters Professor Galenson deals with the problems faced in each industry by
                    the rival federations and the various international unions involved. The pattern of organization
                    differed from one industry to another depending upon the nature of the industry and the work force,
                    the history of unionism in the industry, the attitude of employers, and other factors.
            The final chapter is concerned with substantive issues common to the entire labor movement and
                    includes, among others, sections on membership, union finances, political action, labor legislation,
                    corruption, and foreign affairs. In the final pages of this chapter, Professor Galenson delineates
                    main trends and makes a few observations concerning developments during the years from 1935 to 1941.
                    He concludes that "there is no clear image of a straight line trend of trade union
                    development … the watchword of the period was change, induced partly by growth and partly
                    by radical alteration in the political and economic environment…. A number of currents
                    ran through the total picture, but no one of them can be regarded as the ultimate
                    determinant" (p. 640).
            In the preparation of this volume Professor Galenson had access to a wide range of basic documents
                    not generally available. This fact, his recognized scholarship, and the significance of the period
                    combine to make this work a noteworthy contribution. Of particular value to the labor historian, it
                    should be of interest also to others concerned with developments during this period.
            
               American Labor, by Henry Pelling, is a recent addition to the 
                  
                            Chicago
                         History of American Civilization series, edited by Daniel J. Boorstin. This
                    book is recommended to the layman who is interested in learning something of the early working
                    conditions of laborers and craftsmen in this country and of the background and development of labor
                    unionism. From Colonial days to the enactment of the Labor-Management Reporting and Disclosure Act
                    of 1959, the author gives an interesting, readable, and scholarly interpretation of conditioning
                    forces and major developments in the labor field with particular  emphasis on those which are uniquely "American." A don of Queen's
                    College, 
                        Oxford
                    , Mr. Pelling brings to this task an extensive knowledge of British and European labor
                    history as well as familiarity with the American scene acquired through residence and travel in this
                    country.
            
               Indiana University D. W. Murphy
         
         
            
               The Mexican Revolution, 1914-1915: The Convention of Aguascalientes. By Robert
                    E. Quirk. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1960. Pp. 325. Endpaper map, bibliographical note, notes,
                    index. $6.75.)
            To serious students it has long been obvious that the really significant events in Mexican history
                    occurred in the tumultuous decade 1910-1920 and not in the years of independence a century earlier
                    or in the bittersweet memories of Juarez and Maximilian in the 1860's. Yet the story of La Revolución has not been easy to report. Lasting constitutional
                    reform and measures of economic and social advance that have completely altered the lives of the
                    Mexican people are tightly interwoven with the rise and fall of caudillos who
                    brought civil chaos and pointless suffering for the masses. The end result is a rich tapestry of
                    colorful personalities and tangled skeins of action that almost defies analysis. For those able to
                    read Spanish, Mariano Azuela's novel, Los de Abajo, and Guzman's
                        El Aguila y la Serpiente still provide the best means of capturing the flavor
                    and spirit of the age. But Robert Quirk's able dissection of a part of this story in The Mexican Revolution, 1914-1915, does accomplish several important things.
            Primarily, Quirk's volume is a thorough piece of research utilizing private correspondence,
                    contemporary newspaper reports, and government documents to uncover many significant facts hitherto
                    unknown or unavailable to the general American public. Secondly, the book emphasizes the
                    significance of the Convention of Aguascalientes and the complex events surrounding the moves and
                    countermoves of Huerta, Carranza, Villa, and Zapata that establish the background for the
                    Constitution of 1917. And lastly, it sheds some additional light on the problems of American
                    presidents who have tried to play the dubious role of "teaching Latin Americans to elect
                    good men." At a time when the difficulties of dealing with 
                        Cuba
                    's Castro are mounting toward crisis, the plight of Woodrow Wilson cannot fail
                    to arouse in us a measure of sympathy, though we can scarcely condone his tactics.
            In 1914, Victoriano Huerta, whose murder of the naive but idealistic Francisco Madero had shocked the
                    world, had been pushed from power. His place was taken for the moment by Venustiano Carranza, a
                    shrewd opportunist backed by a brilliant general, Álvaro Obregón. Emiliano
                    Zapata, a genuine agrarian reformer whose cry tierra y libertad brought heartfelt
                    response from the people, was master of the rich agricultural region south of 
                        Mexico
                     City. And there was also the fitful Francisco "Pancho" Villa
                    controlling the north with a private army and carrying on a private war of murder, rape, and
                    plunder.
            These are the principal characters whose story Quirk develops as they fight for control of the
                    revolution, taking turns at the presi-  dential chair and each
                    formulating the inevitable plan that promises peace, justice, and abundance for all once his
                    particular enemies have been removed. Villa is perhaps the best delineated of the lot. Certainly the
                    story of his career told in the first-hand accounts of an American correspondent carries the most
                    excitement. But Wilson and Secretary Bryan in their off-stage maneuverings, not to mention the
                    occupation of 
                        Vera Cruz
                    , also played a significant part in the final outcome of the struggle.
            It is possible that Professor Quirk could have done more to set this story into the over-all picture
                    of the times. He does summarize briefly at the close of each chapter, but more knowledge of 
                        Mexico
                     than many readers possess is too often assumed. This is however a minor complaint.
                    Quirk's previous work on the Catholic Church (plus a forthcoming book expounding more fully
                    Wilson's part in the 
                        Vera Cruz
                     affair) will have gone far in establishing him as a man who can someday give us, if he
                    cares to, a definitive account of the whole Mexican revolutionary achievement.
            
               
                  
                            Valparaiso
                         University Willis Boyd
         
         
            Indiana University Graduate Program in American History for High School Teachers
            Indiana University has announced an intensive three-summer course of teacher-training made possible
                    by a $156,000 grant from Lilly Endowment, Inc., to improve the instruction of American
                    history in the junior and senior high schools of Indiana. Fellowships valued at $1,000
                    will be awarded both to present teachers and to persons graduating from universities and colleges in
                    the state. The recipients will study American history in the summer sessions beginning in 1961. As
                    parts of the program the Department of History will undertake several other projects: a system of
                    traveling professors to visit selected high schools to examine the status of history teaching and to
                    assist in the improvement of instruction; the publication and distribution of bibliographies and
                    other materials; the initiation of an interdepartmental six-credit-hour course on topics and
                    viewpoints in American history; and a plan of supplementary study for teachers during the academic
                    year. Maurice G. Baxter and John E. Wiltz, of the Department of History, will direct the new
                    program.
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Indiana Votes: Election Returns for Governor, 1852-1956, and Senator, 1914-1958.
                    Compiled and edited by Robert J. Pitchell. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Bureau of Government Research, Indiana University, 1960. Pp. 103. Map. Paperbound.)
                    The Bureau of Government Research, Indiana University, is to be commended for publication of this
                    useful compendium of Indiana election returns, by counties, of contests for governor, 1852-1956, and 
                        United States
                     senator, 1914-1958. Even a cursory study of this mass of data indicates that the state
                    of Indiana and many individual counties as well have been "doubtful" throughout
                    most of the past century. Presumably this close rivalry between the two major
                    parties—Democrats and Republicans—in many county and state elections has been
                    an important factor in stimulating political competition and interest among Hoosiers. The data from
                    which the tables in this booklet were compiled have been placed on IBM cards. Students wishing to
                    obtain copies of these cards at cost should write to the Bureau indicating their special area or
                    areas of interest.
            
               In the Service of the Farmer: My Life in the 
                            Michigan
                         Farm Bureau. By Clark L. Brody. (East Lansing: 
                        Michigan
                     State University Press, 1959. Pp. xi, 140. Frontispiece. $3.26.) This
                    slender volume includes much information and commentary about changes in farming and farm life since
                    the late nineteenth century, the establishment of the 
                        Michigan
                     Farm Bureau in 1919, its subsequent development, and federal farm policies since the
                    1920's. Born on a farm in southern 
                        Michigan
                     in 1879, Clark L. Brody was graduated from 
                        Michigan
                     Agricultural College (now 
                        Michigan
                     State University) in 1904. He farmed during the ensuing decade and then served as a
                    county agricultural agent from 1915 to 1921. He was, he states, the seventh such agent in 
                        Michigan
                    . From 1921 until 1952 he was the principal managerial officer for the 
                        Michigan
                     Farm Bureau, and he continued to serve the MFB until his retirement early in 1959.
                    Though obviously a vigorous friend of the MFB and both participant in and defender of considerable
                    farm legislation since the 1920's, Brody writes: "Today, government inventories
                    [of surplus farm produce] have soared to unprecedented heights. We are still following the outmoded
                    agricultural program that was set up in the thirties and early forties, which compounds the
                    difficulties of the farmer, and does not help him solve the problem of over-production. Obviously,
                    some of the huge sums being squandered on destructive … farm policies, should be diverted
                    to research on how the farmer and the rural community can adapt themselves to the economic and
                    social revolution which we are experiencing" (p. 128).
            
               Some Ferments at 
                            Wisconsin
                        , 1901-1947: Memories and Reflections. By G. C. Sellery. (
                        Madison
                    : University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Press, for the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Library, 1960. Pp. vii, 124. Frontispiece. $2.50.) Professor Sellery wrote
                    this volume to examine some controversial matters which engaged attention at the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     principally during his years of service on the faculty from 1901 until his retirement
                    in 1942. President Van Hise is quoted with approval  regarding
                    the obligation of the university " ‘to follow wherever truth may
                    lead,"’ which " ‘forever makes a university a center of
                    conflict. If a university were content to teach simply those things concerning which there is
                    practical unanimity of opinion … there would be quiet; but it would be the quiet of
                    stagnation’" (p. v). Apparently Professor Sellery agrees with the view that a
                    faculty is a group of persons who think—otherwise. Professor Sellery, dean of the College
                    of Letters and Science at 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1919-1942, discusses 
                        Wisconsin
                    's presidents, the role of the faculty (both actual and desirable), athletics,
                    student counseling, student discipline, retirement policies, undergraduate curriculum, university
                    organization, etc. His discussion is sharp and penetrating in its unfavorable criticism of
                    "The Glenn Frank Regime."
            
               American Philanthropy. By Robert H. Bremner. The 
                            Chicago
                         History of American Civilization. Edited by Daniel J. Boorstin. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1960. Pp. vii, 230. Illustrations, chronology, list of suggested reading, index.
                    $4.50.) This book is one of the topical volumes in the series known as the 
                  
                            Chicago
                         History of American Civilization. Thus, it is a general and chronological
                    study of philanthropy in the 
                        United States
                     from colonial times to the present. Bremner's account is informative and
                    includes considerable interpretation regarding philanthropy's development in this country.
                    Footnotes and citations for quotations are conspicuous by their absence, but fifteen pages of
                    references organized mainly by chapters indicate something of the literature used.
            
               Their Majesties the Mob. By John W. Caughey. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1960. Pp. xi, 214. Bibliography, index. $5.00.) In his Preface and
                    Introduction Professor Caughey indicates very great concern about vigilantism and all related forms
                    of mob action and notes that world history is "peppered" with examples of mob
                    violence. In this book, however, his "attention is narrowed to the special flowering of
                    vigilantism on the American frontier in mid-nineteenth-century and to more recent manifestations,
                    also American" (Preface). Several dozen documentary accounts of mob action are offered with
                    brief introductory comment. Professor Caughey asserts that the "historians and the less
                    fact-bound narrators who have dealt" with frontier vigilantism "have shaped a
                    public memory that glorifies this part of the pioneer heritage" (p. 25), thereby
                    encouraging contemporary vigilantism. Their Majesties the Mob is more of a tract
                    for the times than a scholarly history of mob violence on the American frontier and during recent
                    years. Mob violence on the frontier and elsewhere in America needs more scholarly investigation than
                    it has received, and it is a topic that raises questions which are inadequately explored in this
                    volume.
            
               The Wars of the Iroquois: A Study in Intertribal Trade Relations. Second printing.
                    By George T. Hunt. (
                        Madison
                    : University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Press, 1960. Pp. 209. Appendices, bibliography, index. Clothbound, $6.00;
                    paperbound, $1.65.) The University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Press has performed a useful service in issuing this volume in a paperback edition.  Professor Hunt concentrates on the wars of the Iroquois which
                    occurred from the 1640's to the 1680's. Rejecting previous explanations of
                    Iroquois ascendancy by Parkman, Lewis H. Morgan, and other writers, Hunt vigorously supports the
                    thesis that preoccupation with the fur trade was the basic factor behind Iroquois power and
                    aggression in the period covered. His thesis is rooted, however, in what seems to be a significant
                    amount of economic and geographical determinism which is not entirely convincing. The subtitle, A Study in Intertribal Relations, suggests the emphasis on trade and also
                    indicates why various Indian tribes other than the Iroquois, and including the Potawatoini and
                    Miami, are considered.
            
               The Doctor's Secret Journal. By Daniel Morison. Edited by George S. May.
                    (Mackinac Island, Mich.: Fort Mackinac Division Press, 1960. Pp. 47. Illustrations. Limited edition,
                    clothbound, $3.00; paperbound, $ .50.) This journal was written by Daniel
                    Morison, a surgeon's mate in the British army who was stationed at Fort Michilimackinac,
                    1769-1772. The picture which Morison gives of life at this remote outpost is extremely unfavorable
                    to British military government of that period. The journal is not an unbiased account, however, and
                    collaborative evidence is limited. At that time Fort Michilimackinac was a pivot for the British fur
                    trade in the Great Lakes region as it had earlier been for the French trade.
                    Morison's journal offers considerable evidence that liquor and rivalry over women were
                    important sources of friction between British soldiers and fur traders. George S. May has written a
                    helpful Introduction and explanatory sketches for each chapter. His story of how the journal was
                    purchased in 
                        England
                     by Clarence M. Burton in 1914 so that it is now deposited in the Burton Historical
                    Collection of the 
                        Detroit
                     Public Library is an illustration of the important role which private collectors have
                    had and continue to play in gathering and preserving valuable historical documents.
            
               Theatrical Entertainments in Rural 
                            Missouri
                         Before the Civil War. By Elbert R. Bowen. University of 
                            Missouri
                         Studies, Volume XXXII. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 1959. Pp. xiii, 141. Illustrations, bibliography. Paperbound, $3.50.)
                    This "study is devoted to a consideration of all types of theatrical entertainments taking
                    place in rural areas of 
                        Missouri
                     before the Civil War" (p. ix). It is based on the thesis that "the
                    ranting amateur performance of Bombastes Furioso in Boonville, 
                        Missouri
                    , is as much a part of America's cultural picture as the expert portrayal of
                        Hamlet in 
                        New York City
                    . The one may be the artistic inferior of the other, but it may be more representative
                    of the usual in American theatrical entertainment" (p. vii). Professor Bowen discusses
                    amusements and entertainments, wagon shows and circus boats, Negro minstrels, the professional
                    theatre, the Thespians, and the German theatre. His study indicates that theatrical entertainments
                    were varied in rural 
                        Missouri
                     preceding the Civil War, and it also suggests that such cultural activities were more
                    imitative than original. There is need for numerous studies such as this one regarding various
                    aspects of cultural life in the American Middle West during the nineteenth century.
            
            
               Queen City Yesterdays: Sketches of 
                            Cincinnati
                         in the Eighties. By William C. Smith. (
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Ind.: R. E. Banta, 1959. Pp. 66. Limited edition, paperbound, $1.50.) In
                    this volume of modest length William C. Smith, known to a number of historians and librarians as a
                    buyer and seller of books, offers his reminiscences of boyhood life in 
                        Cincinnati
                     during the 1880's. Schools, amusements, libraries, churches, eating habits,
                    and saloons are discussed with considerable candor. Much is offered about social and cultural
                    history in the Queen City in the decade described; however, the personality of the author, his
                    cherished likes, and his dislikes are reflected in numerous evaluations. Introductory material and
                    notes are supplied by "Flaxius." Whether Flaxius is Mr. Smith or R. E. Banta or
                    both is not clear.
            
               End of Track. Reprint. By James H. Kyner, as told to Hawthorne Daniel. Introduction
                    by James C. Olson. (Lincoln: University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1960. Pp. 280. Notes. Paperbound, $1.60.) Although James H. Kyner was
                    a native of 
                        Ohio
                     and his volume tells of life in 
                        Ohio
                     in the generation preceding the Civil War and also of the war itself, his
                    book's principal value arises from the fact that Kyner was a railroad constructor in such
                    western states as 
                  Nebraska, Idaho, Colorado
               , and
                    Wyoming during the 1880's and 1890's. Kyner's recollections offer
                    considerable information about construction methods and problems as well as about the very close
                    cooperation between railroad interests and politicians. This reprint edition-the original appeared
                    in 1937—includes a concise and useful Introduction by Professor James C. Olson, of the
                    University of 
                        Nebraska
                    .
            
               
                  
                            Louisiana
                        : The Pelican State. By Edwin Adams Davis. (
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press: 
                        Baton Rouge
                    , 1959. Pp. xi, 356. Illustrations, maps, index. $4.95.) This history of 
                        Louisiana
                     from early times to the present offers a lively, one-volume account of the Pelican
                    state. Its value is increased by numerous illustrations and a number of maps. Citations are
                    generally lacking, a bibliography is not included, and the scholarship, though based on much
                    information and considerable understanding, is not as critical as desirable. Professor Davis gives
                    much information about 
                        Louisiana
                    's development from its Indian occupation through its occupation as a colony,
                    first of 
                        France
                     and then of 
                        Spain
                    . He relates, as well, the state's history as a part of the 
                        United States
                     since its purchase from 
                        France
                     in 1803. 
                  
                            Louisiana
                        : The Pelican State is one of a growing number of books which the 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press has published regarding its state and region.
            
               The Siege of St. Augustine in 1702. By Charles W. Arnade. (
                        Gainesville
                    : University of 
                        Florida
                     Press, in cooperation with the St. Augustine Historical Society, 1959. Pp. 67.
                    Illustrations, maps, bibliography. Paperbound. St. Augustine edition, $1.00;
                    publisher's edition, $2.00.) This booklet is a detailed study of the English
                    siege of St. Augustine in an unsuccessful effort to wrest it from the Spanish in 1702. The
                    background of Anglo-Spanish rivalry is indicated, and 
                        Florida
                    's role as a threat to 
                        Georgia
                     and the Carolinas in made clear. Most of the booklet, however, is a detailed discussion
                    of the English approach to St. Augustine, their siege of this fortress, and their withdrawal in
                    failure.
            
            
               Tobacco and Americans. By Robert K. Heimann. (
                        New York
                    : McGraw-Hill Book Co., Inc., 1960. Pp. 265. Numerous illustrations, graphs, references,
                    index. $7.50.) Here is a very readable general history of tobacco in the 
                        United States
                     which includes numerous interesting illustrations. Though the bibliography and
                    citations are limited, Mr. Heimann exhibits a wide acquaintance with his subject. The various ways
                    in which tobacco has been and is used, grown, and processed are discussed. The question of tobacco
                    as a possible cause of cancer and other diseases is considered, with the conclusion that the case
                    against tobacco remains unproved. On the other hand, the pleasure and satisfaction available from
                    the use of tobacco are set forth with persuasive enthusiasm.
            
               Local History in 
                            England
                        
               . By W. G. Hoskins. (
                        London
                    : Longmans, Green and Co., Ltd., 1959. Pp. xi, 196. Illustrations, maps, appendix,
                    references, index. $5.00.) This volume offers counsel and encouragement to persons
                    interested in "studying local history and topography anywhere in 
                        England
                    , especially those who are hoping to produce their own history of a particular
                    place" (p. 1). Observing that there are various ways to study and write local history,
                    Professor Hoskins indicates that there is both room and need for amateur as well as professional
                    historians. Much of the book deals with particular topics or aspects of local history in 
                        England
                    ; nevertheless, amateur and professional historians alike can gain useful ideas and
                    helpful perspectives from this volume. Implicit in what Hoskins writes is the view that worthwhile
                    historical writing, whether by amateurs or professionals, requires a carefully selected topic,
                    systematic research, thoughtful weighing of evidence, writing and rewriting, meticulous accuracy, an
                    uncommon amount of common sense, and resourcefulness. This book is based to a considerable extent on
                    lectures given at 
                        Oxford
                     University. According to its author, the study of local history has rapidly increased
                    in 
                        England
                    , especially since World War II.
            The University of 
                        Arizona
                     has begun publication of an historical quarterly entitled 
                  
                            Arizona
                         and the West. The first issue (Spring, 1959) is dedicated to Frederick Jackson
                    Turner. Its major article by Walter Rundell, Jr., is entitled "Concepts of the
                    ‘Frontier’ and the ‘West.’" The editor, John
                    Alexander Carroll, explains in the Foreword that "this journal will endeavor in each issue
                    to combine something of the history of one typical Western state, 
                        Arizona
                    , with the larger history of the region in which it lies." The closing
                    paragraph of Editor Carroll's Foreword is also applicable to various state historical
                    quarterlies, including the Indiana Magazine of History: "No significant
                    incident will be too small for attention in ARIZONA and the WEST, and no sweeping
                    interpretation too large. Local history is requisite to the preservation of the heritage of a state
                    and its people, but more significantly it is illustrative of the history of the region. Beyond this,
                    regional history leads to an appreciative understanding of the history of the nation. There is
                    nothing very profound in these statements, but they are important enough to emphasize. To comprehend
                    the past of our great republic is to glimpse into its future. The American past may be best
                    understood if it is  viewed both in the valleys of proximity and
                    from the mountain peaks of perspective. The use of local and regional history within the covers of
                    one publication, may place the reader simultaneously at both points of vantage. This, precisely, is
                    what we hope to achieve."
            The Century Gazette, a weekly paper, commenced publication January 9, 1960, at
                    Morrison, 
                        Illinois
                    . It includes a selection of advertisements, articles, news stories, editorials,
                    literary accounts, and other items from newspapers of a century ago. Topics covered range from
                    politics through art, medicine, agriculture, business, and foreign news, to science and religion.
                    The newspapers from which the variety of items have been taken are noted. In the initial issue the
                    exact dates of the papers quoted are not offered, but exact dates do appear, however, in the
                    Gazette's sixth issue, that of March 19, 1960. Pictures which appeared in the papers of one
                    hundred years ago and the style of type used give the Century Gazette much of the
                    character of the mid-nineteenth-century newspaper.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
