
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 62, Issue 1, pages 1-99. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:62+issue:1+year:1966&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Our Reasons for Being.
            BY way of introducing this magazine and justifying its existence we cannot, perhaps, do better than
                    repeat, in substance, what was said in a Prospectus recently issued by us.
            Early Neglect of Documentary Material
            That the historical material of Indiana has never been adequately preserved and rendered accessible
                    is a fact patent to all who have occasion to deal with such material. The dereliction of the State
                    itself in the earlier days in caring even for its official documents exemplifies a neglect that has
                    been general. By way of illustration, on the old statute books stand laws that require the
                    preservation in the State Library of a number of copies of the general and local laws, and of the
                    Senate, House and Documentary Journals; that require the careful indexing of the Documentary
                    Journals; that require the alphabetical arrangement and binding into volumes of bills, petitions and
                    other legislative papers. No efforts seem to have been made until later years to obey any of these
                    statutory requirements, and so far as the culpable neglect has been rectified it was by the
                    collections and clerical efforts of recent librarians. Even with these efforts complete sets of our
                    State documents have not been secured, and much other matter of value has passed away beyond
                    recovery.
            Present Preventable Losses.
            Much material not within the jurisdiction of the State has also passed away and is daily passing. Old
                    men who have had a part in the history of the commonwealth die, and with them is going the last
                    dwindling remnant of first-hand knowledge of the phases of life that have been; they leave papers,
                    journals and various documents of interest, and these, descending to indifferent heirs, become
                    irretrievably lost. To gather from surviving pioneers their testimonies, and to save from oblivion
                    documents still accessible is a thing to be desired.
            Awakening Interest in Other States.
            An interest in these things in this State sufficient to support a magazine of local history is only a
                    matter of time. Such interest is not a sporadic one but a natural growth. Already something like a
                    score of States are represented by as many periodical historical 
                    publications, a number of them quarterly magazines, devoted to the preservation of local material.
                    Some of these, such as 
                  Michigan, Wisconsin, Iowa,
                            Minnesota
               , are younger States than ours
                    with, perhaps, less history to record. Most of the publications mentioned have back of them the
                    Historical Societies of their several States. We, unfortunately can look to no central organization
                    for such support, but local societies are springing up in a number of counties, and if these will
                    evince an interest proportionate to the service we can render them they can go far toward making our
                    publication a success.
            To the members of these societies and to others who think an interest in our past worth promoting as
                    of value to the present, then, we make an appeal. We have launched the magazine at a venture and at
                    some sacrifice in the faith that if we can make a worthy showing the support will be forthcoming. It
                    is not our disposition to resort to any foisting or booming method. We assume that the class we
                    desire and hope to reach will take our effort exactly at its worth, and that if every page we
                    present to them is full of matter that justifies itself no better advertisement will be needed. For
                    the first year, if need be, we are willing to make no account of managerial and editorial labors if
                    the actual cost of publishing, distributing and associated expenses are covered.
            This, of course, is experimental and is by no means the limit of our hope. If our success justifies
                    it we shall certainly expand our scheme. One feature much to be desired, but prohibited in the start
                    by cost, is the reproduction of old maps and cuts of interest, many of which exist but are lost to
                    all but the delver.
            Character and Scope of Publication.
            The publication will be strictly what it purports to be at the start—a magazine devoted to
                    the preservation and collating of matter that is of real value to the historical student. There will
                    be no space given to advertising "write-ups," and no cheap padding. Of matter
                    within its legitimate field there is an abundance, and outside of this field it will make no bid for
                    popular favor.
            Its intended scope (subject to extension, as may seem advisable) is—
            1. The seeking out and publishing of hitherto unprinted documents that have an historical value.
            2. The re-printing of valuable and interesting matter that is buried away and practically lost in old
                    newspaper files. Of this 
                    
                  GEORGE S. COTTMAN
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana Division, Indiana State Library.
               
                     there is much that is wholly forgotten, and, owing to the absence
                    of any guide, to be found only after long and patient research.
            3. The conducting of a department of bibliography of historical material now scattered through
                    periodicals and local histories, and of an indexing system that shall comprehend all important
                    official publications besides other matter of interest. We believe that this will at once commend
                    itself to all who have had occasion to search out obscure information.
            4. The binding together into a co-operative system (and this is one of the important and hopeful
                    objects) the various local historical societies in the State, as well as the encouraging and
                    promoting of other such societies. The needful thing in Indiana to-day, in this direction, is the
                    historical "atmosphere," that shall stimulate work all along the line and inspire
                    the student in history with a sense of the usefulness of such study. This once existing there is no
                    reason why much should not be accomplished, and it is to those who have already started societies
                    and otherwise manifested an interest that we must look for the creation of such an atmosphere by the
                    uniting of their efforts.
            5. The publication of original studies in Indiana history by careful and trustworthy students. Some
                    of the best history work being done at present is intensive, dealing with special aspects and of
                    limited compass, but, by a corresponding thoroughness, particularly illustrative of great
                    principles. Of work of this character we can secure enough to add a desirable feature to our plan.
            6. The promoting of history work, particularly State and local history, among teachers and in the
                    schools. On this point we wish to be distinctly understood. The habit of "working"
                    the schools as a lucrative field with many and various private enterprises is an evil conspicuous,
                    we presume, to most school officials, and obvious to us. We have no intention of attempting to
                    persuade teachers and trustees as to their needs—they themselves should know their needs
                    better than we do—but this we have in mind: the interest in home history is making way in
                    the schools; in the development of this interest and the directing of it to the most useful ends
                    help and co-operation not available hitherto will surely be a need. Such help and co-operation we
                    are ready to extend to the best of our ability.
            To sum up, we feel quite satisfied that we can carry out acceptably and well our proposed venture if
                    our friends encourage it, and we hope to receive this encouragement.
         
         
         
            Reminiscences of a Hill-Billy
            
                    Edited by Victor M. Bogle
                    ∗
                
            
                    Contributed by Paul Pritchard 
                            Van
                         Riper
                    ∗∗
                
            Paul 
                        Van
                     Riper (1876–1944) was an Indiana school teacher and administrator who, near
                    the close of his career, chose to record recollections pertaining to his personal life and
                    professional activities. Most of the topics depicted in this and the earlier published sections of
                    the "Reminiscences" relate to the youthful period of the writer's
                    life—from the early 1890's to the time of World War I. Their principal
                    geographic setting is the rural neighborhood of 
                  Jennings
                        County, Indiana
               . Included in the September,
                    1965, issue of the Indiana Magazine of History were sections dealing with
                    "School Days," "My Teachers," and "Things in
                        General."1 This concluding installment offers 
                        Van
                     Riper's recollections concerning work, play and recreation, roads, politics,
                    religion, and "philosophy of life."
            What has made today's native Hoosier what he is? Observations such as those recorded by Paul 
                        Van
                     Riper perhaps shed some light upon this question. They allow us to view what is, in
                    many respects, a typical area of the state at a time when values and concepts were in their
                    crystallizing stage. Just as mores governing 
                        Van
                     Riper's 
                        Jennings County
                     were vestiges of an earlier frontier culture, so the customs passed down from his era
                    are a determinant for Hoosier thought and action today.
            
               
                        Van
                     Riper implies that religious beliefs and practices were a vital concern in the 
                        Jennings County
                     society of his boyhood. The influence of the Protestant churches as guardians of
                    personal morals in the rural community is certainly worthy of attention—as is the role
                    that the churches apparently played in preserving the traditional 
                        Puritan
                     concepts 
                  
                     ∗ Victor M. Bogle is associate professor of history and
                            director of the Indiana University Campus, 
                                Kokomo
                            .
                  
                     ∗∗ Paul Pritchard 
                                Van
                             Riper, whose father wrote "Reminiscences of a
                            Hill-Billy," is professor of public administration, Cornell
                            University, 
                        Ithaca, New York
                     .
               
                     (pp. 38–46). Perhaps the pattern of scheduling
                    Methodist and Baptist church services at the same time on alternating Sundays began in an effort to
                    maintain doctrinal purity (p. 45). Both congregations, however, continued to adhere to the pattern;
                    and there was dormant friction in the community as a result. The reluctance of the Catholic mother
                    to have her daughter seriously courted by Protestant boys (p. 45) can be partially explained by
                    circumstances recited in another portion of the "Reminiscences": Catholic families
                    during the earlier period of settlement of 
                        Jennings County
                     moved into areas where opportunities for cultural exchange with Protestants were
                        minimal.2
            
            Other observations of 
                        Van
                     Riper provide clues to the state's traditional but precarious political
                    balance. According to the author, late nineteenth century political factionalism in his neighborhood
                    was based on local ecological conditions rather than on the merits of either major political party
                    (pp. 36, 37). He also suggests that his neighbors were not without racial and nativistic bias and
                    that this bias was reflected in their formal political views. Flagrant vote-buying, a practice of
                    both parties in 
                        Van
                     Riper's community, provides further hint why there was a growing trend toward
                    the Australian ballot and more stringent residence requirements for voting. State law now prohibits
                    many of the practices which made these early 
                        Jennings County
                     elections so controversial and colorful.3
            
            
               
                        Van
                     Riper's presentation is a synthesis of one man's observations and
                    experiences and therefore possesses uniqueness. Its real value, however, stems from the
                    writer's concern with commonplace, "grassroots" situations. The comments
                    and anecdotes, whether they relate to religion, politics, transportation, or other facets of life in
                    his youthful neighborhood, add to the store of source material which ultimately must serve as the
                    basis of more formal historical accounts.
            
               
                  2
                        Ibid., 213, 221.
               
                  3 The evolution of Indiana state law regulating voting and election
                        procedures may be traced in Charles Kettleborough (ed.), Constitution Making in
                            Indiana (3 vols., Indiana Historical Collections; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1916, 1930), I, 304, II, 157, and in Harrison Burns (ed.), Annotated
                            Indiana Statutes (12 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1955), I, 70–71. A detailed summary of the current law affecting
                        residency for voters is given in Burns, Annotated Indiana Statutes, VII,
                        111–13.
            
            
            
                    WORK.
                    1
                
            My Father was a firm advocate of the theory, "The Devil finds work for idle hands to
                    do." He usually kept me busy at work. But never so busy that I did not have some time for
                    boyish games and play. We burned at least three stoves all winter and sometimes more. It was my job
                    to keep the wood boxes well filled, and kindling ready for the morning fires. Nothing was to prevent
                    my doing this chore except absence or sickness. Many times when I had gone to bed with the chore
                    left undone I was routed from my warm bed, made to dress and fill those woodboxes. We also kept a
                    horse and a cow. I had these to feed and water and generally care for. I drove the cow to pasture in
                    the summer time and went after her in the evening. Charley Simmons proudly rode their cow back and
                    forth but I never could get our cow broke to ride. Father caught me at it one day and needless to
                    say I never tried to ride the cow again. Some one had taught me to make a dart with a sharp point
                    and tailed with feathers. I became quite expert with it. One evening as I was bringing bossy home
                    she persisted in eating the lush grass along the road. Exasperated I finally threw my dart at her
                    and it stuck in her rump. She high-tailed it for home and unfortunately Dad saw her pass the store
                    in a run and more unfortunately for me he saw the dart also. Strange 
                  
                     1 This document in its original form is a typed manuscript. Though
                            good at the "hunt and peck" system, the author was not a trained typist;
                            and at the contributor's request, the most obvious typographical and grammatical
                            errors have been corrected. When lacking, apostrophes have been added to show possession; in
                            three instances periods were placed after abbreviations of "Mrs.,"
                            "etc.," and "Rev."; and a period was added to replace a
                            comma at the end of one sentence. Otherwise 
                                Van
                             Riper's original punctuation has been maintained. The
                            author's capitalization is also unchanged except for one sentence which begins with
                            a small letter and two words mistakenly capitalized in the middle of sentences. Obviously
                            unintentional repetitions have been omitted, but all other deletions are indicated by
                            ellipses. Apparent typographical errors, such as "rememver,"
                            "jioned," and "diubtful," have been corrected, as have 
                                Van
                             Riper's few misspelled words, such as
                            "emphattically," "baptised," and
                            "rythm." In a number of cases, for example, the words
                            "threashing" (threshing) and "catched" (cached), the
                            original spelling has been maintained in order to retain the flavor of the article and to
                            preserve the author's style. These words are indicated by a [sic]
                            the first time they are used. For the same reason Van Riper's use of the verb
                            "run" instead of "ran" has also been retained and
                            indicated by a [sic]. Minor changes in spacing have been necessary in
                            presenting the play party songs. No attempt has been made to identify the towns, schools, or
                            people mentioned in the document. The original subheadings or chapter headings are indicated
                            in boldface type without changes in capitalization or punctuation. Some sections of the
                            manuscript have been rearranged in an effort to improve the sequence of presentation.
                            Portions of the reminiscences which will not be reproduced concern
                            "Parentage," "Tragedy and Near Tragedy,"
                            "Military Experience," and "Stories." The original
                            manuscript is in the possession of the author's son, Paul Pritchard 
                                Van
                             Riper, professor of public administration at Cornell University,
                                    
                        Ithaca, New York
                     .
               
                     to say I was not whipped for the act but I got a lecture I shall
                    never forget. When the cow was properly fed either Sister May2 or I milked her.
            Then we usually kept a couple or more pigs. They had to be fed and slopped and their pen cleaned at
                    regular intervals.
            If at any time the buggy was taken out in muddy weather, then it was my job to wash the buggy and
                    grease the harness.
            As I grew older my duties increased. Father had the store and Postoffice.3 It
                    became my duty to build the store fire and sweep in the morning. In the summer I clerked in the
                    store and made the garden. Finally after Sister May was married4 I became Deputy
                    Postmaster. While I was Deputy a new Postoffice was established at Fleming four miles west of
                    Hayden, and an old man by the name of Day made Postmaster. Shortly after the quarterly reports had
                    to be made, I had a request from the head office at 
                        Cincinnati
                     to go to Fleming and help Mr. Day correct his report. I went down to Fleming and told
                    Mr. Day why I had come. We went over his report and counted the cash and stamps, but though he swore
                    that he kept the office money separate we found a shortage of sixty cents. Finally the old man asked
                    me, "Do I have to pay for the stamps I use?" We had found the source of the
                    shortage. One summer I worked for Uncle Garner Paul on the farm. He paid me twenty-five cents a day
                    and my board. With a team plowing or harrowing or cultivating, I could do as much as a man. Of
                    course at hard manual labor like pitching hay or cutting wood or hauling manure I could not do as
                    much. Then I worked two summers for Mitchel Day. He was one of the best farmers in the County
                    [Jennings]. I learned much from him. He paid me fifteen dollars a month and my board, room and
                    washing. Later after father's death I worked one summer 
                  
                     2
                            
                                Van
                             Riper had three full brothers and sisters: May (sometimes called Mary), older
                            than he; Maude, now residing in Zionsville, Indiana; and Harry. Additional information
                            regarding the family is in Victor Bogle (ed.), "Reminiscences of a
                                Hill-Billy," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, LXI (September, 1965), 205–50, and in an unpublished portion of the
                            original manuscript entitled "Parentage," 4–11.
                  
                     3 In 1881, when 
                                Van
                             Riper was five years old, his father moved to the village of Hardenburg (now
                            Hayden) in 
                                Jennings County
                             and opened a grocery store. According to the son, the elder 
                                Van
                             Riper prospered and "being a good republican soon became
                            Postmaster." See "Parentage," 9.
                  
                     4 Included in the "Parentage" section of the
                            original manuscript is a genealogical listing of the McConnell family. According to this
                            list (a xerox copy of which will be deposited in the Genealogy Division, Indiana State
                            Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ), 
                                Van
                             Riper's sister May (Mary) was married July 1, 1891, to Samuel
                        Dodd.
               
                     for Orph Beatty. He paid me the unusual sum of twenty dollars per
                    month.
            About the close of my third year in High School,5 Father's health failed
                    and he had to give up the store. We moved back to the farm on Six Mile Creek. Father and mother had
                    bought out the other heirs and now owned the farm.6 So I went to school in the
                    winter and helped on the farm in the summer. He taught me to stack hay and grain, to use a scythe
                    and cradle. I had already learned to use an ax and cross cut saw. Abe 
                        Lincoln
                     had nothing on me. I also cut wood, hauled logs and mauled rails. Frank Barrier and I
                    one spring split enough rails to fence twenty acres of land. I also helped to clear ground and
                    assisted in the building of a log barn.
            After Father died in December 1898 and Harry was drowned a year later, we moved back to Hayden and
                    rented the farm. Then I taught school in the winter and worked at whatever I could find to do in the
                    summer. For three months in the spring, March, April and May, I usually went to School at Indiana
                        University.7
            
            I worked in harvest usually stacking hay and grain, run [sic] the stacker and
                    separator of a threashing [sic] outfit, played baseball, fired in a sawmill and
                    one summer worked on the railroad spotting cars for a steam shovel or running the steam plow to move
                    the dirt off the cars onto a fill beneath the trestle and track on which the cars run. Part of
                    another summer I was timekeeper for a construction Company.
            Occasionally I would help cut and haul saw logs or cut wood or cut and shock corn. I was never a very
                    robust looking lad but I could hold my own with most of the men at even the hard work of pitching
                    hay, sawing logs or cutting corn. I also between jobs did some painting and picked up enough
                    carpentry to make a hand.
            With all the hard work I did as a boy and young man I nevertheless had a good time and found time for
                    baseball, fishing, hunting, swimming, skating parties and dances.
            
               
                  5 Hayden High School, organized in 1894, offered only three years work
                        until approximately 1904. 
                            Van
                         Riper completed his third year and graduated from Hayden in March, 1897. Bogle,
                        "Reminiscences of a Hill-Billy," 222, 227, 229.
               
                  6 The farm to which 
                            Van
                         Riper refers belonged to his maternal grandparents, Mahlon and Sarah Humphrey
                        McConnell. It was located on Six Mile Creek in 
                            Spencer
                         Township, 
                            Jennings County
                        , two miles northeast of Hardenburg. See "Parentage," 7.
               
                  7 For an account of John and Harry 
                            Van
                         Riper's deaths see Bogle, "Reminiscences of a
                            Hill-Billy," 231, 232–33. 
                            Van
                         Riper attended Indiana University in 1898, 1901, 1902, 1904, and 1906. Archives,
                        Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        . For further information regarding the author's education and teaching
                        career see Bogle, "Reminiscences of a Hill-Billy,"
                        205–50.
            
            
            Going with the threashing machine was hard work with long hours, but we enjoyed it. The man who ran
                    the traction engine, the boy who hauled water for the engine, the stacker boy and I who ran the
                    separator would stay all night wherever we were threashing at the time. More often we slept in the
                    barn or in the straw stack than we did in the house. We had to get up early. While the engineer got
                    up steam, I 
                  SAWMILL CREW SIMILAR TO ONE WITH WHICH VAN RIPER WORKED (CA. 1900)
                  Courtesy Ruth Wilson Lutes
                would oil the separator, whang the belts, clean the riddles and see that all was in
                    readiness to go as soon as the sun was well up.
            We had a twelve horse power Frick Traction Engine and a small Red River Special
                    Separator. A large outfit could not get over the hill roads or into the barns. The machine was set
                    if possible so that the wind would blow the chaff and dust to one side or toward the straw stack.
                    But sometimes the machine had to be set against the wind, then we 
                    
                  THRESHING SCENE WITH FRICK ENGINE IN 1918 (Probably a later model
                            engine than that described by Van Riper.)
                  Reproduced from Reynold M. Wik, Steam Power on the American
                            Farm (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1953), courtesy University of 
                                Pennsylvania
                             Press.
               
                    
                  THRESHING SCENE WITH RED RIVER SPECIAL SEPARATOR, 1920 (Probably a later model than that used by Van Riper.)
                  Reproduced from The Indiana Farmer's Guide, April 10,
                            1920.
                had to take the dust. Occasionally we would have what we called a dust chill. The machine
                    had to be leveled and the wheels chocked. The engine had to be lined with the separator so the belt
                    would run true. In a good day's work where all went well and we did not have to move too
                    often we could threash one thousand to twelve hundred bushels of wheat.
            On a big job usually a keg of beer appeared as we were clean[ing]up. This was particularly true when
                    we were threashing in the German neighborhood.
            
            PLAY AND RECREATION
            We had an unusually fine group of young people in and around Hayden. They in general were clean, full
                    of fun, intelligent and ambitious. The German young people held pretty much to themselves. They
                    played cards and danced and their social activities centered pretty much about their church.
            Some of the protestant young people danced and more played cards but hardly ever at a party. The
                    Baptist and Methodist churches frowned at cards and dancing. Some of us however belonging to the
                    church did both.
            Our social and recreational activities varied. We had picnics, church socials, swimming, baseball,
                    and buggy riding. In the winter we had parties, bob-sled rides, skating, church festivals and plays.
            At our parties we played games other than cards, played charades, had a great deal of music both
                    vocal and instrumental and occasionally played a few of the singing dancing games in vogue in
                    southern Indiana at that time. However our group never indulged much in these games because they
                    savored too much of dancing for the good Methodist and Baptist folks. I went with the crowd in
                    Hayden and because of my wide acquaintance all over the Township [
                        Spencer
                    ] I was invited many times to dances among the German People and to Play Parties in both
                    the North and west parts of the community.
            These playparty games are worthy of more than passing notice. In my opinion they were a heritage from 
                        England
                     or at least from the early settlers of New 
                        England
                    . They were a boon to people who had few musical instruments. All sang the songs to
                    which they danced if it could be called dancing. There was rhythm and keeping time. The players
                    skipped, swung, promenaded, bowed, walked and run all in time to the tune of the song. They sang
                    stanzas that were in fact directions for the game. These songs were simple and at times crude, but
                    they were rhythmic and full of action.8 Since these games are now a novelty,
                    though I am told that they are still played in some communities in Indiana, I have collected words
                    and music for a few of them from friends of my boyhood, and from others to whom I have written for
                        information.9
            
            
               
                  8 For further discussion of the play party, its origin, distribution, and
                        significance, see Leah Jackson Wolford, The Play-Party in Indiana: A Collection of
                            Folk Songs and Games with Descriptive Introduction and Correlating Notes (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. IV; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1916), 11–18, and Mark Sullivan, Our Times: The 
                                United States
                            , 1900–1925 (6 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1927), II, 154–83.
               
                  9 Words and music to the play party songs differed from locality to
                        locality. For versions other than those 
                            Van
                         Riper describes see Wolford, Play-Party in Indiana, and Sullivan,
                            Our Times, II, 154–83.
            
            
            
               
                        Skip-to-my-Low.
                    
            
            
                    WORDS
                    1. My wife's left me, skip to my Lou, (Repeat three times) Skip to my Lou, my darling.
                    2. I'll get another one, skip to my Lou, (Three times) Skip to my Lou my darling.
                    3. Bugs in the biscuits, two by two, (Three times) Skip to my Lou, my darling.
                    4. Chickens in the hay stack, shoo, shoo, shoo.
                    5. Hurry up slow poke, skip to my Lou.
                    6. If I can't get 'er back, anothern[sic] will do.
                    7. I'll get her back in spite of you.
                    8. She's gone again, skip to my Lou.
                    9. I'll get another one sweeter than you.
                    10. Little red wagon painted blue.
                    11. Rabbits in the bean patch, what'll I do?
                    The verses may be repeated, or sung in any order, or new lines added according to the inspiration
                        of any of the singers.
                    DIRECTIONS FOR PLAYING.
                    All stand in a circle, girls to the right of their partners. There is one extra boy. As the music
                        starts he skips or dances about the circle, selects a girl, takes her by the hands and they skip
                        about the circle and then take their place in the circle. Then the boy whose girl has been taken
                        must, with the singing of the next verse, do as the first boy did and so on.
                
            
            
               
                        Old Dan Tucker
                    
            
            
                    WORDS.
                    1. Ole Dan Tucker's down in town, Saluting the ladies all around, First to the right and
                        then to the left, And then to the one that he loves best. Get out of the way Old Dan Tucker,
                        You're to late to get your supper, Supper's over and breakfast's
                        cooking, Old Dan Tucker is still a lookin'.
                    2. Old Dan Tucker is a fine old man, He washes his face in the frying pan, He combs his hair with
                        a wagon wheel, And dies with the toothache in his heel. Get out of the way old Dan Tucker,
                        You're too late to get your supper, Supper's over and breakfast's
                        cooking, Old Dan Tucker is still a lookin'.
                    DIRECTIONS
                    Any number of couples. One extra man. Form a circle, girl partners on the right. The extra man is
                        Old Dan Tucker. As the singing begins, Old Dan dances across the circle and swings a girl by the
                        right hand, then swings another girl with his left hand then leaving each of these two girls in
                        turn he swings a third girl and retains her for the promenade. All this takes place during the
                        singing of the first four verses. Then during the singing [of] the final four lines then all
                        couples promenade until the verse is completed. Then the act is repeated with the boy as Dan
                        Tucker whose girl has been taken by the first Dan Tucker. Keep on until all tire of the
                    game.
                
            
            
               
                        The Miller
                    
            
            
                    WORDS.
                    Oh the miller is a happy man, He lives by the mill, He takes his toll, With a free good will, One
                        hand in the hopper, And the other in his sack, As the wheel rolls round, He cries out grab.
                    DIRECTIONS.
                    The game requires an extra boy. The couples, with girls to the right, promenade. The extra boy
                        stands in the center. All sing as they promenade. When they come to the words, "He
                        cries out grab", each boy lets loose of his partner's arm and seeks a new
                        partner. In the mix up the extra boy gets him a partner if he can. The game is then repeated
                        with the boy left without a partner in the center.
                
            
            
               
                        Go in and out the Window.
                    
            
            
                    WORDS
                    1. We're marching round the levy, (Repeat three times) For we have gained the day.
                    2. Go in and out the window, (Three times) For we have gained the day.
                    3. Go forth and choose your lover, (Three times) For we have gained the day.
                    4. I kneel because I love you, (Three times) For we have gained the day.
                    5. I measure my love to show you, (Three times) For we have gained the day.
                    6. One kiss before I leave you, (Three times) For we have gained the day.
                    DIRECTIONS
                    One extra Man. Form couples, girl to the right. All join hands and circle either right or left.
                    As verse 1 is sung all circle.
                    Verse 2, The boy in the center goes in and out the circle going under the joined hands.
                    Verse 3, All stand still. The boy in the circle chooses a partner and stands facing her.
                    Verse 4, The boy kneels before the girl.
                    Verse 5, He demonstrates by pantomine the extent of his love.
                    Verse 6, The boy kisses his chosen partner and takes his place in the circle at her left.
                    Then the game may be repeated indefinitely.
                    When there is no extra boy and does happen to be an extra girl then the girl gets in the
                    circle.
                
            
            
               
                        The Needle's Eye.
                    
            
            
                    WORDS
                    1. The needle's eye that doth supply, The thread that runs so truly, And many a lass
                        have I let pass, Because I wanted you, Because I wanted you, Because I wanted you, Oh many a
                        lass have I let pass, Because I wanted you.
                    2. The needle's eye that doth supply, That thread that runs so truly, Oh many a beau
                        have I let go, Because I wanted you, Because I wanted you, Because I wanted you, Oh many a beau
                        have I let go, Because I wanted you.
                    DIRECTIONS
                    One couple form an arch with their clasped hands held high. The other players form a circle and
                        pass through the arch. The boy of the couple forming the arch selects a girl of those passing
                        through the arch and they drop their arms on each side of the girl selected. The boy then claims
                        a kiss or a forfeit.
                    Then the second verse is sung and the girl chooses a boy.
                    Then another couple for[m] the arch and the game is continued as long as desired.
                
            
            
               
                        The Chimney Sweeper.
                    
            
            
                    WORDS
                    1. I am a poor old chimney sweeper, I have but one daughter and cannot keep her,
                    2. So since she has resolved to marry, Go choose your lover and do not tarry.
                    3. Now you have one of your own choosing, Hasten away, no time for losing.
                    4. Join your right hands,
                    5. This broom step over,
                    6. And claim a kiss from your own true lover.
                    DIRECTIONS.
                    Couples join hands and circle about one boy in the center who has a broom. (It may be a girl with
                        the broom)
                    1. All circle
                    2. Boy circles looking for the girl of his choice.
                    3. He holds the broom horizontal with the floor about one foot high between him and the girl he
                        has chosen.
                    4. They join hands.
                    5. Each place their right foot over the broom stick.
                    6. The boy kisses the girl or claims a forfeit.
                    Repeat with a girl in the ring.
                    Note. Where there was objection to kissing a forfeit was claimed and the person had to perform
                        some stunt to amuse the crowd.
                
            
            
               
                        And all chaw Hay on the Corner.
                    
            
            
                    WORDS
                    1. First young lady all around in the center, All around in the center, all around in the center,
                        First young lady all around in the center,
                    2. And balance to your partner.
                    3. Swing your partner and all promenade, And all promenade, and all promenade, Swing your partner
                        and all promenade,
                    4. And all chaw hay on the corner.
                    DIRECTIONS
                    All form a circle, ladies to the right.
                    1. One girl dances around the inside circle.
                    2. She returns and swings her partner.
                    3. All couples swing and promenade.
                    4. All jig in their original positions.
                    Then second young lady etc. until all girls have circled center.
                    Then it's the boys' turn. Then the song runs, First young gent all around in
                        the center etc.
                
            
            
               
                        The girl I left Behind me.
                    
            
            
                    WORDS
                    1. First gent dance to the opposite lady, Swing her by the right hand,
                    2. Swing your partner by the left,
                    3. And promenade the girl behind you. Oh that girl, that pretty little girl, The girl I left
                        behind me, She stole my heart and away she ran, Way down in south Carolina.
                    Or for the last four lines.
                    Oh swing that girl, that pretty little girl, The girl I left behind me, She's pretty in
                        the face and slim around the waist, That girl I left behind me.
                    DIRECTIONS
                    For four or more couples. All form a circle.
                    1. Boy dances across the circle and swings the girl opposite him across the circle by her right
                        hand.
                    2. He dances back to his partner and swings her by the left hand.
                    3. All promenade with the girl on his left hand or the girl behind.
                    Repeat until all boys in the circle have danced across the ring and back and promenaded.
                
            
            
               
                        King william
                    
            
            
                    WORDS
                    King William was King James's son. He from the royal race did come. Upon his breast he
                        wore a star, Like the points of the compass are.
                    1. Go choose to the East, go choose to the west, Go choose the one that you love best, If
                        she's not here to take her part, Choose another with all your heart.
                    2. Down on this carpet you must kneel, As sure as the grass grows in the field, Salute your bride
                        and kiss her sweet, Then rise again upon your feet.
                    DIRECTIONS.
                    All except one boy form a circle. The boy is in the circle and represents King William.
                    1. The boy looks about the circle, chooses a girl and kneels before her.
                    2. He bows, takes her hand, rises and kisses her and takes a place in the circle beside her.
                    The boy displaced becomes King William and the game continues.
                
            
            
               
                        Sister Phoebe.
                    
            
            
                    WORDS
                    1. Oh sister Phoebe, how merry were we, The night we sat under the juniper tree. The Juniper tree
                        high-O, high-O, The Juniper tree high-O.
                    2. Put this hat on your head, keep your head warm, And take a sweet kiss it will do you no harm,
                        But a great deal of good I know, I know, But a great deal of good, I know.
                    DIRECTIONS.
                    1. All join hands and circle. A boy stands in the circle with a hat in his hand.
                    2. The boy chooses a partner, draws her inside the circle, places the hat on her head and greets
                        her with a kiss or demands a forfeit.
                    Repeat until all have been within the circle.
                    NOTE—We usually demanded forfeits till the old folks retired and then it was usually
                        kisses.
                
            
            
               
                        Weevily Wheat.
                    
            
            
                    WORDS
                    (Chorus)
                    Oh Charley he's a fine young man, Oh Charley he's a dandy, Charley loves to
                        kiss the girls, And feeds them all on candy.
                    1. It's promenade your weevily wheat, It's promenade your barley, It's
                        promenade your weevily wheat, To bake a cake for Charley.
                    2. It's right hand round your weevily wheat (Last three lines same as verse 1.)
                    3. It's left hand round your weevily wheat, etc.
                    4. It's both hands round your weevily wheat, etc.
                    5. It's do- si- do- your weevily wheat, etc.
                    6. It's swing, oh swing your weevily wheat, etc.
                    DIRECTIONS
                    This game is danced exactly the same as the 
                            Virginia
                         Reel
                    Occasionally the words are varied as;-
                    The higher up the cherry tree, The riper grow the cherries, The more you hug and kiss the girl,
                        The sooner she will marry.
                    Over the river to water the sheep, Over the river to Charley, It's over the river to
                        water the sheep, And bake a cake for Charley.
                
            
            There were many other Singing, dancing games whose words I remember but I do not have the music. Some
                    of these follow;—
            
                    SHOOT THE BUFFALO
                    Rise ye up my dearest dear, And present to me your hand, And well march you in succession, To
                        some far and distant land, To some far and distant land, To some far and distant land, And
                        we'll march you in succession, To some far and distant land. There the boys will plow
                        and hoe, And the girls will spin and sew, We'll travel through the cane-break, And
                        shoot the buffalo.
                    This game consists of "Grand right and left", meet your partner, and promenade.
                    Then repeat.
                
            
                    SUCH A GETTING UPSTAIRS
                    First gent lead out to the right, Right hand lady with left hand swing, Partner in center and
                        seven hands ring, Lady swing out and the gent swing in, Seven hands up and gone again, Such a
                        getting upstairs I never did see, Such a getting upstairs it done suit me. Balance all, swing oh
                        swing, Swing your partner and we'll all run away, Such a getting upstairs I never did
                        see, Such a getting upstairs, It done suit me.
                
            
            
                    PIG IN THE PARLOR
                    We kept the pig in the parlor, We kept the pig in the parlor, We kept the pig in the parlor, And
                        it is Irish too, And it is Irish too, We kept the pig in the parlor, And it is Irish too.
                    Chorus
                    Oh it's left hand to your partner, The right hand to your neighbor, The left hand back
                        to your partner, And we'll all promenade And we'll all promenade And
                        we'll all promenade Swing your left hand lady around, and we'll all promenade
                        My father and mother were Irish (three times) And I was Irish too, (Three times) My father and
                        mother were Irish, And I was Irish too.
                
            
                    POP GOES THE WEASEL
                    It's all around the American Flag, It's all around the eagle, That's
                        the way the money goes, Pop goes the weasel.
                    A nickel for a spool of thread, A penny for a needle, That's the way the money goes, Pop
                        goes the weasel.
                    You may buy the baby clothes, And I will buy the cradle, That's the way the money goes,
                        Pop goes the weasel.
                    Round and round the cobbler's bench, The monkey chased the weasel, The preacher kissed
                        the cobbler's wife, Pop goes the weasel.
                    This is danced the same as the 
                            Virginia
                         Reel.
                
            
            I mentioned the fact that we sang much at our parties. Mrs. Susie Wohrer Featheringill10 sent me the words of the following songs that she used to sing at Hayden parties.
            
                    THE BLUE JUNIATA
                    Wild rover an indian girl Bright Alfaraita. Where sweep the waters, Of the blue Juniata. Swift as
                        an antelope Through the forest going, Loose were her jetty locks In wavy tresses flowing.
                    Gay was the mountain song Of bright Alfaraita. Where sweep the waters Of the blue Juniata. Strong
                        and true my arrows are In my painted quiver. Swift goes my light canoe Adown the rapid river.
                    Bold is my warrior, good, The love of Alfaraita. Proud waves his snowy plume Along the Juniata.
                        Soft and low he speaks to me, And then his war cry sounding Rings his voice in thunder loud From
                        height to height resounding.
                    So sang the Indian girl, Bright Alfaraita, Where sweep the waters Of the blue Juniata. Fleeting
                        years have borne away The voice of Alfaraita, Still sweeps the river on The blue Juniata.
                    —Mrs. M. D. Sullivan.
                
            
               
                  10 Susie Wohrer grew up in the Hayden neighborhood and was a personal
                        friend of Van Riper. She later taught with him in the 
                     Franklin, Indiana
                  , city schools.
                        For further information see Bogle, "Reminiscences of a
                        Hill-Billy," 205–50.
            
            
            
                    SOLDIER WON'T YOU MARRY ME
                    Soldier, soldier, won't you marry me? It's 0 a fife and a drum. How can I marry
                        such a pretty girl as you When I've got no hat to put on?
                    Off to the hatter's she did go, As hard as she could run, Brought him back the finest
                        was there, Now soldier, put it on.
                    Soldier, soldier, won't you marry me? It's O a fife and a drum. How can I marry
                        such a pretty girl as you When I've got no coat to put on?
                    Off to the tailor she did go As hard as she could run. Brought him back the finest was there,
                        Now, soldier, put it on.
                    Soldier, soldier won't you marry me? It's O a fife and a drum, How can I marry
                        such a pretty girl as you When I've got no shoes to put on.
                    Off to the shoe shop she did go As fast as she could run, Brought him back the finest was there
                        Now, soldier, put them on.
                    Soldier, soldier won't you marry me? It's O a fife and a drum. How can I marry
                        such a pretty girl as you, And a wife and baby at home.
                
            
                    THE GYPSY'S WARNING
                    Do not trust him gentle lady, Though his voice be low and sweet Heed not him who kneels before
                        thee, Gently pleading at thy feet. Now thy life is in its morning Cloud not this, thy happy lot,
                        Listen to the Gypsy's warning, Gentle lady, trust him not.
                    
                    Do not turn so coldly from me I would only guard thy youth From his stern and withering power, I
                        would only tell the truth. I would shield thee from all danger, Save thee from the
                        tempter's snare. Lady shun that dark eyed stranger, I have warned thee, now beware.
                    Lady once there lived a maiden Pure and bright, and like thee, fair, But he wooed and wooed and
                        won her Filled her gentle heart with care. Then he heeded not her weeping Nor cared he her life
                        to save, Soon she perished, now she's sleeping In the cold and silent grave.
                    Keep thy gold, I do not want it, Lady, I have prayed for this, For the hour when I might foil
                        him, Rob him of expected bliss. Gentle lady do not wonder At my words so strange and wild, Lady,
                        in that green grave yonder Lies the Gypsy's only child.
                    Author unknown.
                
            The following song my mother used to sing to us children.
            
                    BILLY BOY
                    Oh, where have you been Billy Boy, Billy Boy? Oh, where have you been, charming Billy? I have
                        been to see my wife, she's the darling of my life, She's a young thing and
                        can't leave her mother.
                    How old is she, Billy Boy, Billy Boy? How old is she charming Billy? Twice six, thrice seven,
                        twice forty and eleven, She's a young thing and can't leave her mother.
                    Can she bake a cherry pie, Billy Boy, Billy Boy? Can she bake a cherry pie, charming Billy? She
                        can bake a cherry pie quick as a cat can wink its eye, She's a young thing and
                        can't leave her mother.
                    Can she make a feather bed, Billy Boy, Billy Boy? Can she make a feather bed, charming Billy? She
                        can make a feather bed with the pillows at the head, She's a young thing and
                        can't leave her mother.
                    Did you ask her to wed, Billy Boy, Billy Boy? Did you ask her to wed charming Billy? I did ask
                        her to wed and this is what she said, I'm a young thing and cannot leave my mother.
                
            
            We always had a good baseball team at Hayden. It is said that Hayden developed more baseball players
                    and railroad men than any town near its size in Indiana.
            Baseball was played at school every day that a game was possible. No wonder many good players were
                    developed. From among those who came to school to me or with whom I played the following played
                    professional ball. Howard and Roll Daringer with the Three I League; Cliff Daringer with the Three I
                    and later with the 
                        Chicago
                     White Sox; Noah, Walter and Grover Moore with the Three I League; Walter Moore was with 
                        Indianapolis
                     for a time; Mike Simon catcher on the Pittsburg National League Team and Ray and Bill
                    Ryan with the 
                        Virginia
                     League.
            During the summer months we played ball each Saturday P. M. About half the games were played at
                    Hayden. Then we would go to neighboring towns, 
                  North
                        Vernon, Vernon
               , Lovett, 
                        Paris
                    , Dupont, Reddington, Scipio and Alert for return games. These trips were made in
                    buggies or the entire team went in a large spring wagon drawn by four horses. I usually played first
                    base.
            On Sundays, since we did not play Sunday games at home, a few of the team would play with some
                    neighboring team. Once I went with the Seymour team on a week's trip to West Baden. We
                    played a game there each day to entertain the guests. We were paid fairly well and were royally
                    entertained.
            During the winter we usually put on a number of dramatic plays. We would give a performance at home
                    and then repeat it at Scipio or Reddington and sometimes at 
                        Vernon
                    . Those plays were a lot of fun. I usually played the lead. Dr. Davenport, a young
                    Doctor, who had been two years on the professional stage, played character parts and coached the
                    plays. Among the plays I remember playing in were, "Down on the Farm,"
                    "Way Down East", "Tony the Convict", "Out in the
                    Street", "Hector", and "A Woman's Honor".
            One night we were playing at Scipio. All the boys knew me because I had played baseball there many
                    times. I was made up to represent a man in very poor health. In the midst of a very dramatic scene,
                    with soft music, one of the boys in the audience recognized me and in a stage whisper that could be
                    heard all over the house said, By God, that is Paul 
                        Van
                     Riper. That came near breaking up the show.
            
            My sister Maud and I were frequently asked to dances, social affairs and weddings down in the German
                    neighborhood. When Adam Machino married Lena Huersberger we were invited. They were married at the
                    Church at ten o'clock in the morning. Then all the guests went to the home of the bride.
                    There a long table in the yard was spread bountifully with excellent things to eat. Beer was on tap
                    in the cellar. Following the dinner came dancing. A large dance floor sufficient to accommodate
                    three sets for square dances, had been laid in the yard. The music was provided by two fiddles and a
                    base viol. The dance opened with a waltz. At first only the bride and groom danced once about the
                    floor. Then the Groom honored Sister Maud, by selecting her as a partner, and the Bride selected me
                    to dance with her. We danced once about the floor and then at a signal from the Groom the other
                    couples joined in the dance.
            This waltz was followed by a square dance of three figures, called or rather sung by one of the
                    German Boys. Each square dance was followed by a waltz, schottische or a polka. The dance continued
                    until the wee small hours.
            I had my favorites as a boy at school. There were Katy McGinty, a sweet little Irish girl whose
                    father kept the saloon, Hetty Hartpence, a daughter of the village doctor, and Emma Oliger, who sat
                    across the aisle. I had brought them apples and candy and had sent Hetty a valentine, but I had my
                    first real date the spring I was twelve years old. I shall never forget it. I was attending school
                    at the Wohrer School. The Graves boys, cousins of mine sent out invitations to a party in honor of
                    Boyd's twelfth birthday. I asked Alice Woodson to go to the party with me. She lived near
                    the Wohrer School two miles west of Hayden. Father thought I was too young to use the horse and
                    buggy but said I might take a horse that would carry double. But Alice wanted to walk. So the night
                    of the party I walked the two miles from Hayden to Alice's home. Then she and I walked the
                    mile from her home to the Graves Home. We played dancing games till midnight, then we walked back to
                    the Woodson home and I walked alone the two miles to my home. It was a large evening. Imagine my
                    letting Paul Jr.,11 at twelve years of age pull such a stunt.
            
               
                  11
                        
                            Van
                         Eiper had one son, Paul Pritchard 
                            Van
                         Riper, born in 1916. In the reminiscences he refers to his son as Paul, Jr.
                        According to the
            
            
            Alice was a fine sweet girl just my age, but that was our only date. I think I was rather discouraged
                    by the distance that lay between our homes.
            For other entertainment we had spelling schools, shooting matches, an occasional barn raising, maple
                    sugar pulls, corn roasts and steak frys. I doubt if the younger generation today have better times
                    than did we and the cost to us was nil, other that the effort involved.
            ROADS
            The roads in Southern Indiana, as I first remembered them were unimproved. They were laid out and
                    fenced and most of them graded and ditched. There was an occasional stretch that had been graveled
                    but for the most part they were dirt. In particularly wet places the roads were corduroyed. To
                    corduroy a road, small trees were cut and laid close together across the road. Sometimes the surface
                    thus secured was leveled with dirt or gravel but more often travelers had to take the bumps.
            The first pike road in 
                        Spencer
                     Township was built from Hayden to 
                        North Vernon
                    . This was a toll road. The right of way was first widened and graded. Then on a base of
                    about six inches of coarse rock, crushed by hand power, was spread a layer of gravel. It was never
                    much of a road, judged by today's standards, but for the time it was very good. There were
                    two toll houses on this seven mile stretch of road. Toll keepers lived in them and collected a small
                    sum from all persons traveling the road. The toll gate was a large pole across the road, which by a
                    mechanical device, could be raised or lowered, to block or clear the road as occasion demanded. As I
                    remember the round trip of 14 miles on this road a team and wagon was twenty-five cents, and fifteen
                    cents for a single horse and buggy. Later the County took over the road and maintained it. It was
                    then known as the free pike.
            A law was then passed permitting the people of any section to petition for a gravel or rock road to
                    be paid for by a local tax.12 Soon the main roads of the Township were converted
                    into pikes. These were constructed largely of crushed stone.
            
               
                  12 The Indiana General Assembly had approved such a law as early as May 3,
                        1877. Indiana, Laws (1877), 82–89.
            
            
            The early dirt roads were dusty in summer and muddy in winter. Especially in the spring due to
                    freezing and thawing, many of the roads became impassible except to a person on foot or horseback.
                    Doctors rode a horse during the winter and spring. I have seen wagons loaded with hay or logs with
                    all four wheels in to the mud to the hubs.
            One night I was returning home from a party, on old Bill my riding horse. It was dark and the mud was
                    deep. I dozed as Bill plodded along. Suddenly I was awakened by Bill stumbling in the mud knocking
                    off my stiff hat. I stopped Bill and got off in the mud to look for my hat. Finally in the gloom I
                    noticed a bulge on one of Bill's hind legs. He had stepped through that hat and the mud had
                    pushed it up nearly to his knee.
            At another time I was driving Bill to the buggy. I was asleep but I knew Bill would bring me safe
                    home. Suddenly the lines were snapped from my hands. The buggy had mired to the hubs. Old Bill
                    lunging forward, had broken the single tree and any harness that connected him to the buggy, and
                    went on home. I waded home through the mud, found Bill waiting for me at the barn, and went back the
                    next morning for the buggy.
            We went to dances, parties, spelling schools etc., in the winter on horseback. The day had nearly
                    passed when boys would take the girls up behind them on a horse, but I did have that pleasant
                    experience a number of times. But I preferred to take my girl in a buggy rather than behind me on a
                    horse.
            One spring night, Wallace Orcutt and I borrowed Ben Burtch's spring wagon, made up a team
                    with his horse and mine, and with two girls started to a school entertainment at the Glixner School,
                    three miles from Hayden. We never got there. We mired in the mud, got the horses down and finally
                    disgusted and covered with mud, came back home.
            In that day the smaller streams were forded. The larger streams on the most used roads had large
                    covered wooden bridges. The planks forming the floor of these bridges were laid crosswise of the
                    road. A team and wagon crossing one of these bridges at a trot could be heard for miles.
            The Township levied a road tax. If the voter desired he could work this tax out on the road. It
                    required one day's work with a team of horses or three days' work for a man  and a shovel. In this way the roads were maintained in a more or
                    less passable condition.
            In 1912, Margaret13 and I drove from 
                        Franklin
                    , in our first Automobile, to Hayden. We digressed from the graveled road and got on
                    some of the dirt roads. We got through without getting stuck but we had several close calls. George 
                        Hammond
                     lived south of Hayden across Six Mile Creek. On my first attempt to ford this creek I
                    drowned the engine. Joe Megel pulled me out with his team and it was more than an hour before the
                    wires dried out so that I could start the car.
            As late as 1920, there was no through pike or solid road between 
                        Columbus
                     and 
                        North Vernon
                    .14
            
            The spring of 1920, I was asked to make the Commencement Address at 
                        Paris
                     Crossing. At that time we lived in 
                        Franklin
                    . Margaret drove me down in our four cylinder Buick. It rained hard all day. The road on
                    the hills near Scipio were deep with mud. We came near stalling a dozen times but finally, nearly
                    worn out, we reached 
                        Paris
                    . The river there was high and two of the graduates were not able to get across to
                    attend their commencement. The Orchestra came out from Seymour. They got in a creek west of 
                        Paris
                    , got wet, but finally reached 
                        Paris
                     by coming around by way of Commisky. The County Superintendent, Shepherd Whitcomb,
                    drove over from Hayden, and broke a spring on his Ford in route. Finally near nine o'clock
                    the exercises began. Of course we curtailed the exercises as much as possible as every one was near
                    worn out. Then Shepherd Whitcomb closed the occasion by singing a solo. I disgraced myself by
                    laughing when he started in on his selection. He had selected as the closing number, "The
                    End of a Perfect Day."
            
               
                  13
                        
                            Van
                         Riper married Margaret Pritchard, Aug. 22, 1911. See Bogle, "Reminiscences
                        of a Hill-Billy," 47, and genealogical listing of McConnell
                        Family, "Parentage," n. p.
               
                  14
                        
                            Van
                         Riper's definition of a "through pike or solid road" is
                        unclear. In 1908 King's Official Route Guide describes a road from 
                            North Vernon
                         to 
                            Columbus
                         as partly "stony and rough," partly macadamized. (A macadamized
                        road was constructed by compacting into a solid mass a layer of small broken stone on a convex
                        well-drained roadbed.) Scarborough's Official Tour Book for both 1917
                        and 1919 reports a "good stone road" from 
                            Columbus
                         to 
                            Madison
                        , via 
                            North Vernon
                        . King's Official Route Guide of Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1908), 156; Scarborough's Official Tour Book,
                                    
                        Indiana, Ohio, Michigan, Illinois, Wisconsin
                      and Trunk Line (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1917, 1919), 451.
            
            
            We rode horseback or drove over those roads in all kinds of weather. At times I have driven when I
                    could not see either the road or the horse and had to depend on the horse to keep the road. One
                    night I met Harry Orcutt. We were each driving a horse to a buggy. We did not see each other coming.
                    Finally the wheels locked as the horses passed each other and Bill my horse jumped and jerked a
                    wheel off Harry's buggy.
            Young people who have good roads to drive on and automobiles with good driving lights, can have
                    little conception of the conditions we as youngsters had to meet.
            POLITICS
            
               
                        Jennings County
                     was normally Republican. 
                        Spencer
                     Township was overwhelmingly Democratic. The Germans and Irish were practically all
                    Democrats. Then there were a number of people living in 
                        Spencer
                     Township who were southern in sympathies, during the Civil War. In fact there is strong
                    evidence to show that there was a Lodge of the Knights of the Golden Circle in 
                        Spencer
                     Township during the time of the Civil War. No Republican had ever been elected to
                    office in that Township. The nomination was equivalent to election for democratic candidates.
            Father was an ardent republican. His experiences in 
                        Kansas
                     and in the Civil War had strengthened fervor for that party.15 He
                    and others working with him kept a republican Township organization intact, not with the idea of
                    ever electing a ticket, but to aid in County and State elections.
            In the fall of 1900, we felt there was a chance to elect a republican ticket. The B. & O.
                    Railroad was changing its roadbed from Hayden to one fourth mile south. They brought in a large
                    number of negroes to work on the construction. Some had been on the job long enough to entitle them
                    to 
                  
                     15
                            
                                Van
                             Riper's father, John Van Riper, lived in Iola, 
                        Allen County, Kansas
                     , during the struggle between the proslavery and antislavery
                            forces for possession of that territory. An antislavery man, the elder 
                                Van
                             Riper favored a "free" state. During the Civil War southern
                            sympathizers warned him to move from the community or be killed. 
                                Van
                             Riper enlisted in the Union Army, Company E, Ninth 
                                Kansas
                             Cavalry and served for more than three years, much of the time on detached
                            service carrying despatches. He took part in the Lone Jack expedition and in the pursuit of
                            Quantrell after the burning of Lawrence. See "Parentage," 5–6. 
                                Van
                             Riper's Civil War record and discharge papers are in the possession of
                            Paul Pritchard 
                                Van
                             Riper, the author's son.
               
                     vote. During that summer I had worked on this construction job
                    and knew the negro bosses quite well. Just before the election one of the Negro Bosses told me that
                    the Democrats had promised them $2.00 each for their votes. I reported this to the
                    Township Chairman and the Republicans held a meeting and invited the leaders of the negroes to be
                    present. It was finally arranged that the negroes were to take the $2.00 each offered by
                    the Democrats and to insist on payment before the day of election. Then they were promised
                    $3.00 each if they would vote the republi[can] ticket, but were not to be paid until
                    after election. The negroes consented to do this provided the money was turned over to me, whom they
                    knew and that I would guarantee payment. I was republican clerk that election in the precinct, where
                    they voted. I managed to get the room arranged so that I as clerk sat next to the voting booths.
                    Then when a negro came in and asked for help to mark his ballot, I would get into the booth first.
                    Frank Nighswander was the democrat clerk. It was laughable to see him when each negro came in and
                    voted the straight ticket from township candidates to president. We voted more than fifty negroes in
                    that election and then the democrats carried the township, but that vote sure boosted the County
                    ticket. We kidded the Democrats a good deal about the two dollars they had paid each negro to vote
                    the straight republican ticket.
            Before the Australian ballot system was adopted, voting was a very simple process. The ballots were
                    printed and distributed. Any one could get a ballot. The ballots could be marked any place and
                    brought to the polling place and deposited in the ballot box. All that was necessary to vote a drunk
                    man or even an idiot, was to get a ballot, mark it to suit the ones most concerned, lead or carry
                    the voter to the polling place, put the ballot in his hand, and lift his hand to a position where
                    the ballot would drop into the ballot box. Often the voter when well known did not need to tell his
                    name or residence. No wonder that people who wanted honest elections welcomed the Australian voting
                        system.16
            
            One year Father and Mart Larrabee and John Oathout looked up the law closely and found out that
                    according to law 
                  
                     16 The Indiana General Assembly adopted the Australian voting system
                            on March 6, 1889; and the Australian ballot was first used in the elections of 1890.
                            Indiana, Laws (1889), 157–86.
               
                     a man could not vote unless he gave his name and where he lived
                    if his vote was challenged. So that election they got a good bunch of republicans to stand around
                    the polls and they challenged every drunk man the democrats tried to vote. Unless he could state his
                    name they did not let him vote. Several fights resulted but the republicans stood their ground and
                    had their way.
            The voting of Pete …17 is a good example of the abuse of the ballot
                    under the early system of voting. Pete was an imbecile, in fact almost an idiot. His family had
                    voted Pete for several elections. On this particular occasion, they came to the polls, leading Pete,
                    with a ballot in his hand, up to the window where the ballot box was located. His vote was
                    challenged. After a long argument it was decided that Pete should vote if he would say his name. I
                    can still hear his father as he said to his son, "Damn it, say Pete." But Pete
                    refused to give his name. Then they promised Pete a new pair of boots if he would speak his name.
                    Pete demanded the boots first. They took him over to the store and got the boots and then brought
                    him back to vote. But such a crowd had collected by that time that Pete was frightened and lost what
                    little wits he did have. His family and friends kept him in town till the Polls closed but never did
                    get Pete to give his name.
            The saloons were supposed to close on election day. Outwardly they did close. But usually they
                        catched[sic] a supply of liquor out in the woods so that plenty was to be
                    found without going into the saloons.
            There were always a few people who would not vote until given a sack of flour or a side of bacon, or
                    a pair of boots. They did not care which ticket they voted. One year the township chairman of each
                    party got together before election and decided that neither party would purchase the votes of these
                    particular people. Each side lived up to the agreement. It was laughable to watch these men try to
                    attract the attention of party workers. Finally the polls closed and most of the bunch went home
                    without voting.
            The floaters in the Township were well known. At committee meetings just before election, these
                    floaters would be 
                  
                     17 Last name omitted.
               
                     discussed very frankly. Each floater was listed and opposite his
                    name would be placed the amount thought to be necessary to influence his vote. Then some one was
                    appointed to see each particular floater and see that he voted right.
            In that early day there was little scratching of tickets. Most people voted straight. Entire families
                    voted the same ticket. When Earnest Swarthout, on one occasion, broke away and voted the party
                    ticket opposed by the rest of his family, Old Uncle Aaron Swarthout declared that he was now ready
                    to die since the family had been so publicly disgraced. George Ade sure knew Indiana politics. In
                    his Play, "The County Chairman," he has Hackler say, "The convention got
                    together about ten o'clock. We agreed on a harmony platform and then began to
                    fight." "The kind of Politics we have in this County, breaks up
                    families." "I aught to know what politics is in 
                        Jefferson County
                    , you can't find a spot on me that ai'nt black and blue. You remember
                    what General Sherman said about war? That is because he never was in politics. Politics as pictured
                    in this neck of the woods, is essentially different from King around The Rose. Elias and I have
                    signed articles for a fight that will make an ordinary Indian Massacre, look like a quilting
                    party." "You cant fight with boxing gloves, when your opponent is using a meat
                        ax."18
            
            The most colorful event of a campaign in the Nineties, was the political rally. A speaker of
                    prominence would be billed at the principal town in the township or county. The party workers would
                    arouse all the enthusiasm they possibly could. The day of the speaking, in would come parades from
                    all parts of the county, with great wagons, decorated with bunting and flags, and filled with
                    children. The boys and men often formed a horseback parade. The procession would be led and
                    interspersed with drum corps and bands. Great banners proclaimed the virtues of the candidate or the
                    party platform. I have seen these processions near a mile long. If 
                  
                     18 George Ade's The County Chairman was
                            originally published in 1903. Later versions probably varied somewhat from the original, and
                            actors undoubtedly took liberties with the author's phrasing. The lines 
                                Van
                             Riper cites do not appear consecutively in the play, nor are they all spoken by
                            Hackler. Ade's general meaning, however, is correctly conveyed. See George Ade, The County Chairman (
                                New York
                            , 1924), 28, 39, 52, 53, 65. While a senior at 
                                Franklin
                             College, 
                                Van
                             Riper played the part of the villain in The County Chairman.
                            This probably explains why he could quote the lines so accurately.
               
                     it was a republican rally they usually erected a tall poplar
                    pole and had a flag raising with much ceremony. The Democrats did the same except they used a
                    hickory pole. At night there would be torchlight processions and bonfires. Oh nothing like those old
                    rallies are seen today.
            Then at the speaking there would be a big platform outdoors. On this platform would be seated the big
                    wigs of the party. Usually there was a glee club to furnish music. Then the County Chairman would
                    introduce the speaker. The speech was usually bombastic in character, ridiculing the opposition and
                    lauding their [own] policies to the skies. All speakers, regardless of party professed great
                    patriotism.
            Some of those old Glee Club songs can be read in any Library but I remember one or two. One the
                    chorus ran as follows, 
                        "Hold on Grover,
                        Hold on I say,
                        Put away that fishing pole,
                        On Decoration day."
                    
            
            Grover 
                        Cleveland
                     had raised the ire of all the Civil War Veterans by going fishing on Decoration Day.
            Another was something like this;— 
                        "I'm going to vote for Grover,
                        And old man Thurman too,
                        They will take the tariff off my old britches,
                        And off of Dinah's shoes.
                    
            
            RELIGIOUS LIFE
            The religious life of Hayden and the surrounding community of course centered around the churches.
                    The Catholic Church had services every Sunday but the Methodist and Baptist Churches each had
                    services twice per month. However each had Sabbath School every Sabbath. My father and mother were
                    Baptists. We attended Sabbath School every Sabbath and when there was preaching we attended both
                    morning and night.
            Since the Catholic Church was two miles south of Hayden and the Baptist and Methodist Churches were
                    in Hayden, 
                    
                  Methodist Episcopal Church, Hayden
               
                    
                  Methodist Episcopal Church, 
                                North Vernon
                            
                  
               
                    
                  One of the Roman Catholic Churches in 
                                Jennings County
                            
                  
               
                    
                  Rectory of 
                                St. Joseph
                            's Roman Catholic Church, Hayden
                  Reproduced from Benson Y. Landis, Rural Church Life in The Middle West (
                                New York
                            , 1922).
               
                     nearly all the community activities were presented in the
                    churches. If one had a date Sunday night and there was preaching one went to Church. The ice cream
                    suppers and the straw berry festivals were held in the church or in the church yard. Traveling
                    entertainers, if they did not have a tent, and if they could persuade the Church Trustees that the
                    entertainment was clean, and instructive, gave their shows in one of the churches. Each winter a
                    revival was held in each church, these running from two to six weeks. Lectures, concerts, local
                    entertainments, especially on Children's Day and Christmas, were held in the churches.
                    Later the Kendricks built a town hall. Then the more secular activities were held there, but the
                    churches continued to be the real center of community life until the new School House was built. It
                    is a matter of debate whether the change of interest from Church to School was a good thing. Now the
                    Baptist Church has no church services no Sunday School, and has been sold to the Township Trustee,
                    to be used as a school gymnasium. A few Baptists joined with the Methodist congregation, and others
                    allied themselves with the Baptist churches of 
                        North Vernon
                     and Seymour.
            The Methodist Church is having a hard struggle to exist and even the Catholic Church has been greatly
                    weakened by the intermarriage of their young people with protestants, through their acquaintance in
                    the public schools.
            Father was a Deacon in the Baptist Church. He was a godly Man and exemplified his religion in his
                    daily life. He could make a powerful, eloquent and moving prayer. Mother was equally religious, but
                    in a more quiet way. Her people had been Quakers and she, like them, waited for the spirit to move
                    her. But she was loyal to the Baptist Church. She had been immersed, not because she believed in
                    immersion with water (The Quakers believed in Spiritual Baptism only) but because the Baptist Church
                    Membership demanded it.
            I joined the church at an early age. It was the natural thing to do. A large number of the boys and
                    girls joined at the same time during the revival.
            My first Sunday School Teacher was Mrs. H. B. Weaver, wife of the public school teacher who thought I
                    could not learn arithmetic.19 She was a beautiful character. She could 
                  
                     19 See Bogle, "Reminiscences of a
                            Hill-Billy," 220.
               
                     tell the bible stories in a beautiful and appealing way. I shall
                    always remember her with a great deal of pleasure and respect. I presume that I was not more than
                    sixteen when I became Secretary-Treasurer of the Sunday School. At about age eighteen I was
                    surprised to have the young ladies' class select me as their teacher. Later I taught the
                    men's class. Most of the men were old enough to be my father.
            About that same time I became clerk of the church. Soon after this one of the Deacons died and some
                    of the Brethren suggested that I be elected a Deacon. My name was placed in nomination, seconded and
                    the Moderator called for remarks. Old Uncle Silas Baker rose to his feet and as near as I can
                    remember spoke as follows;—"Brother Paul is all right, he has been our church clerk, he
                    has been active in the work of this Church. He is worthy of the honor of being made a Deacon. But I
                    read in my Bible, where Paul sets forth the qualifications of Deacons, that he says a Deacon shall
                    have one wife. Brother Paul has no wife, therefore in my opinion he can not qualify for the office
                    of Deacon." Brother Baker held his ground, though others explained that the Apostle meant
                    that a Deacon should not have plural wives, and I was not made a Deacon.
            Church trials were common in that day. I remember two. In one a young woman was summoned before the
                    church body to explain her conduct with a very worldly young man. She was not able to satisfy the
                    congregation as to her innocence, and was dismissed from the fellowship of the Church. The second
                    was held to adjust the differences that had grown up between my father and Mr. Weaver. Probably I
                    was the chief cause of the discord. Anyway at this meeting father and Mr. Weaver became reconciled
                    and as far as I could tell were friends from that time on. Knowing my father as I did I think he was
                    sincere in laying aside all rancor.
            Big Meetings as we called Revivals were held yearly. People would come for miles around. Usually
                    there was a choir of mixed voices that led in the singing. The Preacher would have a number of
                    prayers from the older members, both men and women. Then the Minister would preach or exhort. Then
                    following a song, the invitation would be given to unite with the church, while the choir and
                    congregation sang some of those wonderful old revival hymns. How well  I remember those old songs. I can still hear them singing,
                    "Almost Persuaded", "Jesus, Lover of My Soul," "Where
                    is My Wandering Boy Tonight," "Sinner Come Home," "Rock of
                    Ages," "Jesus is Tenderly Calling Me Home," and many others.
            The Revival in which I and many others united with the Church, was conducted by Rev. Conger. He was
                    an elderly man and a fine preacher. He stayed at our home the entire six weeks of that revival. He
                    owned the first baptistry heater I ever saw. So following the accession of a few new members he had
                    the Baptistry, recently built under the pulpit, filled with water, and from then on during the
                    meeting, nightly baptisms added to the interest and the solemnity of the services. The baptistry
                    heater was a gasoline floating burner with coils over the flame. The heat caused the water to
                    circulate through an intake pipe, then through the coils and then out an exhaust pipe. Rev. Conger
                    taught me to run it. So each day I would go at noon, fill the tank of the heater, light it and set
                    it afloat in the baptistry. By night the water would be pleasantly warm and comfortable for both
                    preacher and those baptized.
            A number of the new members, not quite satisfied that the new baptistry satisfied the biblical
                    conditions for baptism, preferred to be baptized in Six Mile Creek. These were baptized usually
                    following the morning service on the Sabbath Day. Then the entire congregation would repair to the
                    stream. Then with the people, standing on the bank, and singing, "Shall We Gather At the
                    River"?, the baptizing was done. Though the water was often very cold and sometimes with a
                    fringe of ice, I never knew anyone to suffer ill effects from the immersion. I was one of those
                    baptized in the creek. Father was waiting on the bank with a heavy blanket and I was hurried home to
                    change into dry clothes.
            Perhaps today, when big revivals are a thing of the past, we think that they were too emotional. But
                    those meetings were in vogue at that time. I am not so sure that we have not gone to the other
                    extreme of cold intellectualism. Religion, without deep feeling, call it emotion if you will, has
                    little power. While some of those converted during a revival, did backslide, many more were truly
                    converted and demonstrated the fact in their daily lives.
            
            One winter the Methodists had a very successful revival. The converts were given their choice of
                    sprinkling or immersion. So some were sprinkled and some were immersed. I reported the meetings to
                    the 
                        North Vernon
                     Plain Dealer. But I made a sad mistake. I stated that so many were sprinkled and so
                    many were baptized. I can still see Aunt Jennie Swarthout, as she in a very unmethodist manner,
                    informed me most emphatically that she was baptized by sprinkling.
            Some of the prayers offered in that early day, were and still are, to me marvels of beauty,
                    simplicity and appeal. Many of those offering prayer, could and did, quote freely from the
                    Scripture. They demonstrated a knowledege of God's Word that puts me to shame. Howard
                    Griffith was tall, ungainly, and anemic looking. My brother George [George Humphrey
                            
                  Hammond, Van
                Riper's half brother] always said that he was afraid that
                    some day Howard would stub his toe and jerk his head off. But Howard could make a most beautiful
                    prayer. Couched in the simple language of the Bible, given with great earnestness, in a soft
                    pleasing voice, Howard could depict the glories of the Lord, until we could almost see within the
                    Pearly Gates. Silas Whitcomb once said that if Howard ever began praying for him personally, he
                    would have to either leave town or mend his ways.
            Jack Kendrick would pray long and earnestly, but he had one phrase that he invariably repeated. Near
                    the climax of his prayer, he always exhorted the sinner to see the error of his ways and repent
                    while, "there was space, time and opportunity."
            Many men and women could pray long and fervently. They in general had little education, yet there was
                    always a beauty of phrasing and wording and expression that could come only from long study of the
                    Bible with its simple and beautiful wording.
            Baptists at that [time] believed and practised closed communion. They offered communion only to
                    immersed believers. At the close of the preaching service on communion day, the congregation would
                    sing a song. The preacher would announce that those not qualified to partake, might depart during
                    the singing of the hymn.
            
            My Mother called our home the Baptist Hotel. Traveling Baptist Ministers always came to our house.
                    Rev. Conger remained for six weeks during the big meeting. Preachers coming for trial sermons
                    invariably stayed at the 
                        Van
                     Riper house. At Church Association Meetings, I have known Mother to feed and bed at one
                    time as many as twenty guests. Frequently two or three Baptist families would be invited to have
                    dinner at our house following the Sunday Morning Service. How mother managed I never knew, but other
                    than calling our home the Baptist Hotel, I never heard her complain.
            Once a blind preacher came and stayed several days. I remember him well because he begged me to read
                    to him so pathetically, that I could not refuse. During his stay I read to him the, "Twenty
                    Famous and Decisive Battles of the World," [Twenty Decisive Battles of the
                        World?] "Sea and Land," and many parts of the Bible. I breathed a sigh of
                    relief when he moved on. But for years we rarely ate a meal without some guest present.
            Many of our Ministers came from the Seminary at 
                        Louisville
                    .20 They seldom remained with us more than one or two years. They
                    would complete their course at the Seminary and move on. I remember we usually paid them
                    $250.00 to $300.00 per year for their services. Since they preached only two
                    Sundays in the month that paid them about ten dollars a sermon. This was not bad pay for those
                    times.
            Many of these young men were excellent preachers and were usually a jolly lot. When a preacher would
                    resign we would send to the Seminary and have them send us a trial candidate. I remember one jolly
                    fellow from 
                        South Carolina
                    , named Kincannon. He declared that an old fellow at church had inquired if he came from
                    the Southern Baptist Zoological Cemetery. I asked him if he took his [meals] at the
                    "Commons", the School boarding place for students. He replied that he took his oat
                    meal there. One candidate who came 
                  
                     20
                            
                                Van
                             Riper is probably referring to the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary,
                            established in 1859 at Lousiville, 
                                Kentucky
                            , and controlled by the Southern Baptist Convention. Clarence E. Lovejoy, Lovejoy's College Guide (
                                New York
                            , 1965), 186. Enrollment at the seminary in 1879–1880 was 83; in
                            1880–1881 it was 94. Southern Baptist Theological Seminary, Catalog, (
                                Louisville
                            , 1880, 1881), 5–8, 8.
               
                     and was not given a call, was so serious that it was pitiful. He
                    made a nuisance of himself by inquiring of every one he met if he had been saved. He asked Clarence
                    Miller, the principal of the High School at that time, if he was a christian. Miller replied,
                    "The neighbors have not fully decided my case yet."
            Some of these young preachers would spend a few days during the summer months with us. Then I would
                    take them hunting or fishing or they would help me with my work. Some of them were good baseball
                    players and then we would draft them for our team.
            Outwardly the Baptist and Methodist congregations got along fairly well, but underneath the surface
                    there was a strong rivalry. During times of revival some of our good Baptists would attend the
                    Methodist meetings and vice versa, but this was not true of the members in general. Although both
                    churches had half time service, they usually held their service the same day. I never knew them to
                    hold a union service. I have even heard it hinted by some of our good Baptists that they thought it
                    doubtful if any Methodist ever got as near the Throne of Grace as one who had been immersed in the
                    Baptist Faith. Some of the older people of each church never entered the church of opposite faith,
                    except to attend a funeral. However the young folks were more liberal. But it always caused
                    complications when two young people of opposite faiths started keeping company.
            At that time there was little mingling socially or religiously between Protestants and Catholics.
                    Through my acquaintance with a large number of Catholics and having gone to school at their school,
                    I was always welcome at their homes or at their church. It was all right for me to invite a Catholic
                    girl to attend a party or a dance, but I noticed that too frequent visits were discouraged. One
                    Sunday Charley Wohrer and I had dates with two sisters. They were very pretty German girls. We had
                    called on these girls several times. This particular Sunday as we drove up the mother met us at the
                    gate. She greeted us very kindly then said very seriously, "Paul you and Charley are
                    welcome to come see my girls, but don't you fall in love with them." We assured
                    her  that our intentions were not that serious, and went on into
                    the house and spent a very jolly evening.
            Occasionally a Protestant would attend a service at the Catholic Church and sometimes a Catholic
                    would be seen at a Protestant Church service. But at funerals each group freely attended churches of
                    a different faith.
            One laughable incident left an indelible impression on my mind. The Quakers were holding a series of
                    meetings in their church just over the 
                        Jennings County
                     Line, west of Hayden. A German, Charley Dunstammer, attended the meetings seemingly
                    with great interest. Finally a committee of the 
                        Quaker
                     Brethren waited on Charley in his home to see if Charley did not want to hear more in
                    regard to their particular belief. Charley received them kindly and listened very attentively. After
                    the Quakers had their say, they urged Charley to express his thoughts on their discussion. Charley
                    replied as follows;- "Veil, wat you say may be true, but damned if I believe it."
                    That broke up the conference but it was so good, that one of the Brethren, with a sense of humor
                    told it. For years in that Community when one wanted to express a doubt on any argument it was
                    sufficient to say, I feel like Charley Dunstammer.
            Philosophy Of Life.
            My father in many respects was an unusual man for his time. He was not educated in the sense of the
                    term today, but he was exceedingly well read. He had a keen intellect and was a leader in church, in
                    politics and in the community. His ideas in the treatment of us children were advanced. He was a
                    strict disciplinarian, but he wanted us to always do the best we knew. If we did that, though we
                    erred, we met nothing but sympathy from him. The last thirty years of his life he suffered terribly
                    and was physically a wreck but he carried on and reared his family, if not in luxury at least we
                    never suffered for food, clothing and shelter.
            Father and Mother were both honest, hardworking sincere, generous, religious people. They had fine
                    standards of life and lived them. From them I learned early in life, that, "man should earn
                    his bread by the sweat of his brow,"  that a
                    man's word should be as good as his bond, that one should live simply and frugally, and if
                    possible put something aside for old age, that one should pay his just debts, that one should
                    "do unto others as he would that others should do unto him", that each person has
                    a task to do in this world, to be temperate, in all things, to live at peace with all men, to guard
                    the weak and respect the aged. And finally to fear God and keep his commandments.
            While I have not always lived to the fullest degree the precepts of Mother and Dad, they have
                    influenced my life perhaps more than I realize.
            I have never cared greatly for money. I have been happy with little. At times I have wished for more,
                    not so much for myself, but for my family and others. Perhaps having to live simply, I value a
                    dollar too highly. It hurts oft times to spend freely. I confess that I have always had a fear that
                    in my old age I might be dependent upon others. That I could not stand. I have never contracted a
                    debt that I did not pay and have paid debts contracted by others that I did not have to pay, but did
                    pay because I thought it the right thing to do.
            In politics I regard the independent, thinking voter the greatest safeguard to Democracy. With enough
                    independent voters, there can be few Bosses, and little long lived wrong and corruption. Yet I
                    believe in political parties. In general I have voted principles in State and National Elections and
                    for the best men regardless of party in local elections. I have no doubt been influenced by
                    Dad's political experiences but I try to do my own thinking.
            I feel that all men should work at least to the degree that they are self supporting. Man is at his
                    best when he is at work. Too much leisure is not good for man. One of the problems of the future I
                    feel will be to get people to use their leisure time wisely. For that reason every man should
                    cultivate a hobby.
            I am inclined to think that some suffering is necessary to a man's highest spiritual
                    development. My father suffered terribly yet I never heard a word of complaint or bitterness. He
                    rose to a spiritual height, during those years of suffering that is unusual. My respect for him is
                    enhanced when I realize  how he kept sweet and wholesome and
                    patient during those years [of] suffering.
            Then I am glad that I have had faith in men. The world is growing steadily better. Progress is not
                    always in a straight upward line, but on the whole mankind has advanced immeasurably in the past two
                    thousand years. For years I have made it a habit to help in a small way the underprivileged or those
                    apparently down and out. I have loaned them small sums of money, or helped them to borrow small sums
                    at the bank. I can count on the fingers of one hand the ones who have let me down. Fifty dollars
                    over a period of forty years will more than cover my loss. That money is a small price to pay for
                    the satisfaction I have had through the appreciation of those to whom I have extended a hand.
            My school philosophy has been simple. Perhaps this is it. To help render my service and that of my
                    teachers useless to the pupil. To put him on his feet so that he can stand alone and be independent.
                    To guide to counsel, to admonish to encourage each pupil to help himself, to develop the best in his
                    personality, body, mind, and spirit, has been my aim. Sometimes I have had to say don't,
                    but more often I have been able to say do.
            I have tried to keep young and keep in mind the pupil's point of view, and to realize that
                    he must make his own decisions, if he is to develop the best within him. I have never used corporal
                    punishment without feeling a sense of failure.
            I feel that in our school work we have, in seeking the development of the intellectual, neglected too
                    much the physical, moral and spiritual. We are just now beginning to realize that we must have a
                    larger program of guidance in our schools.
            As I approach the years of retirement the school problem gets larger and larger. How to take the
                    untutored, often uncouth and unattractive youth, at times from homes worse than none, and guide him
                    for twelve years until he develops into a wide awake, civic minded, moral, thinking, self supporting
                    young man, is an important and tremendous task. I know no greater work in this world.
            
            I have made many mistakes in my school career; I have committed sins of omission. I fall far short of
                    my objectives. But I have generally done the best I knew. I have worked at the job and I have been
                    happy in doing it.
            To many of us, life is little more than hardship to endure and difficulties to overcome. We do not
                    see the happiness or inspiration that is all around us. We are like Peter Bell of whom Wordsworth
                    says;- 
                        "A primrose by the river's brim,
                        A yellow primrose was to him,
                        And it was nothing more."21
                  
                    
                
            I have had much joy out of the beauties of nature, and of art and of music. I have not understood
                    much about them but they have been a source of pleasure. I like to realize now and then that the
                    world is fresh and beautiful and happy. That helps to keep the spirit young. Nor have I ever lost
                    the happiness of today by brooding over the sorrows of yesterday or fearing the troubles of
                    tomorrow.
            My religious philosophy is also simple. I have not been bothered by questions of theology. I have not
                    worried about the Virgin Birth, or Fundamentalism in any form. I have accepted the Old Testament as
                    being a history, beautiful in imagery and symbolism, of a people rising from barbarism to
                    civilization. The miracles have not disturbed me. Jesus said, "Greater things than these
                    shall ye do," and modern science has made the miracles appear tame. My philosophy can be
                    summed up about as follows.
            
               The kingdom of God is within us.
               That to please God one must love his fellow men and treat them with kindness, patience,
                        justness and understanding. 
                     
                        21 These lines are quoted from Part I, Stanza Twelve of William
                                Wordsworth's poem, "Peter Bell." The entire stanza, correctly
                                quoted, is: 
                                    In vain, through every changeful year,
                                    Did Nature lead him as before;
                                    A primrose by the river's brim
                                    A yellow primrose was to him,
                                    And it was nothing more.
                                 William Wordsworth, The Complete Poetical Works of William
                                    Wordsworth (10 vols., 
                                    Boston
                                , 1919), II, 115. 
                  
                    
               
               That every one should follow the Golden Rule.
               That Democracy is dependent upon the observance of the above principles lived in the lives of
                        men.
            
            I believe with the Prophet Micah, "And what doth the Lord require of thee but to do justly,
                    and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God."22
            
            
               
                  22 These lines are quoted from Micah 6:8. The entire verse reads:
                        "He hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the Lord require of thee, but
                        to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?"
            
         
         
         
            Fort 
                        Knox
                    : Frontier Outpost on the 
                        Wabash
                    , 1787–1816
            
                    Florence G. Watts
                    ∗
                
            The history of Fort 
                  Knox, Vincennes, Indiana
               , coincides in time
                    with the territorial period of that part of the country in which it was situated. First built in
                    1787, the year Congress established the Northwest Territory, Fort 
                        Knox
                     remained in operation until 1816, the year Indiana became a state. It occupied three
                    locations: the first, from 1787 to 1803, on the northwest edge of the old town; the second, from
                    1803 to 1813, about three miles above, on the river; the third, from 1813 to 1816, back in 
                        Vincennes
                     on the site of the former Fort Sackville. These three separate locations, called for
                    convenience I, II, and III, and the obliteration of obvious physical remains led to great confusion
                    in the minds of early local historians. Lacking documentary evidence, they depended upon tradition
                    for their descriptions of Fort 
                        Knox
                    . Now a connected story, pieced together from scattered evidence, can be told.
            The succession of forts at 
                        Vincennes
                     begins with one erected about 1731 by François Marie Bissot, Sieur de 
                        Vincennes
                    . This initial structure was probably located adjacent to the river, immediately south
                    of the present 
                        Lincoln
                     Memorial Bridge, where the George Rogers Clark Memorial now stands. 
                        Vincennes
                     spoke of it in a letter of March 21, 1733, as "fort de Uabache." In
                    1735 Jean Baptiste le Moyne de Bienville, governor of 
                        Louisiana
                    , called it the fort of the Peanguichias. Another name, mentioned in 1746, was
                    "les petits ouyas," named for the Ouiatenon Indians of whom the Piankashaw were
                    considered a part. An English form of this was Little Wiautanon, abbreviated to "L.
                        Wiaut."1 The Bellin map of 1755 located the fort at the junction of
                    the 
                        Wabash
                     with the 
                        Ohio
                    ; and the name given was "Fort St. Ange, 
                  
                     ∗ Mrs. Florence G. Watts is a resident of
                                    
                        Vincennes, Indiana
                     , and a member and former president of the Indiana
                            Historical Society.
                  
                     1 Frances Krauskopf, "The French in Indiana,
                            1700–1760, A Political History" (Ph.D. dissertation, Dept. of History,
                            Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , 1953), 158; Jacob Piatt Dunn, The Mission to the Ouabache
                                (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. III, No. 4; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1902), 306, 307, 309, 326, 327.
               
                     formerly fort 
                        Vincennes
                     or the Fort of the Pianguichias."2 However, the name "
                        Vincennes
                    ," in its many renditions, is the one that most often appears.3
            
            Following the death of 
                        Vincennes
                     in an expedition against the Chickasaw in April, 1736, Louis de Bellerive de St. Ange
                    was appointed to command the post. His task was to keep the 
                        Wabash
                     Indians, whom 
                        Vincennes
                     had led into the vicinity, nearby and friendly to the French as the habitants depended
                    on the fur trade for their livelihood. During the twenty-eight years of his administration the
                    community became more agricultural in character, increasing to about eighty habitants. St. Ange also
                    took steps to strengthen 
                        Vincennes
                    ' little fort which had fallen into decay. When the British obtained possession
                    of the French territory by the Treaty of 
                        Paris
                    , 1763, St. Ange was sent to Fort de Chartres on the 
                        Mississippi
                    . He appointed Major Joseph-Antoine Drouët, Sieur de Richardville, to succeed
                    him as administrator; and on Richardville's death the British appointed first Nicholas
                    Chappart and then Jean Baptiste Racine dit St. Marie to the office.4
            
            Later, on May 19, 1777, as a part of the British reorganization of the Old Northwest under the Quebec
                    Act of 1774, Lieutenant Governor Edward Abbott arrived to take command at 
                        Vincennes
                    . He found nothing left in the way of fortification. Assisted by the French he stockaded
                    his cabin, which was probably located on the site of the original fort built by Vincennes, and
                    received four cannons sent by Phillippe François Rastel, Sieur de Rocheblave, commandant
                    at 
                        Kaskaskia
                    . He named his fortification Fort Sackville after George Sackville, Lord George
                    Germaine, secretary of 
                  
                     2 Sara Jones Tucker (comp.), Indian Villages of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 Country (
                                    Illinois
                                 State Museum Scientific Papers, Vol. II, Part 1; 
                                Springfield
                            , 1942), Plate XXIV.
                  
                     3 A list of the various spellings of 
                                Vincennes
                             includes Vinsenne, 
                                Vincennes
                             or St. 
                                Vincennes
                            , Vincene, Vincenne, or Vincesne, all sometimes given the final
                            "s" or preceded by "St." The words
                            "Post," "au Poste," or "Fort" often
                            preceded the name; and frequently "au Post" alone was used. The English
                            corrupted the latter phrase to "Opost." The prefix "St."
                            is accounted for by Bishop J. H. Schlarman who states that the British and Americans seemed
                            to take it for granted that every French post bore the name of a saint. Joseph H. Schlarman,
                                From Quebec to 
                                    New Orleans
                                
                      (
                                Belleville
                            , Ill., 1909), 506n.
                  
                     4 Joseph Henry Vanderburgh Somes, 
                        
                                    Old Vincennes
                                : The History of a Famous Old Town and Its Glorious Past (
                                New York
                            , 1962), 33–49, 54, 55; Krauskopf, "French in
                            Indiana," 345–46.
               
                     state for the American colonies.5 Abbott
                    left 
                        Vincennes
                     February 3, 1778, giving as his reason lack of presents for the Indians.6
            
            The British commander's departure from 
                        Vincennes
                     left Fort Sackville unprotected. Emissaries of George Rogers Clark easily occupied the 
                        Wabash
                     town in July, 1778, as a part of the American invasion of the Old Northwest during the
                    Revolutionary War. Governor Henry Hamilton, sent to recapture 
                        Vincennes
                     for the British, arrived at the fort on December 17, 1778, and immediately began
                    strengthening it. He constructed a powder magazine, guardhouse, barracks, and blockhouse and had a
                    well dug; but he had not completed his improvements by the time Clark made his second successful
                    attack, February 25, 1779.7
            
            After capturing Fort Sackville, Clark renamed it Fort Patrick Henry.8 No further
                    change of name is recorded although the fort is usually referred to as Fort Sackville, its name at
                    the time of the most important event in its history. On the site now stands the magnificent George
                    Rogers Clark Memorial, built with federal, state, and county funds and dedicated by President
                    Franklin D. Roosevelt, Sunday, June 14, 1936.
            Fort 
                        Knox
                     soon succeeded Fort Patrick Henry as the defense of 
                        Vincennes
                    . Concerning the former fortification historians have been decidedly confused. The
                    difficulty seems to lie with the three locations previously mentioned. Judge John Law, one of the
                    earliest local historians, does not mention Fort 
                        Knox
                     at all in his history of 
                        Vincennes
                    .9 The 1886 History of 
                            Knox
                         and 
                            Daviess
                         Counties, relying on the testimony of several prominent residents, is
                    thoroughly confused 
                  
                     5 H. W. Beckwith (ed.), Collections of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Library (
                                Springfield
                            , Ill., 1903), I, 310–11, 313. Louise Phelps Kellogg, The British Regime in 
                                    Wisconsin
                                 and the Northwest (
                                Madison
                            , Wis., 1935), 129–31.
                  
                     6 Beckwith, Collections, 317; John D. Barnhart
                            (ed.). Henry Hamilton and George Rogers Clark in the American Revolution, with
                                the Unpublished Journal of Lieutenant Governor Henry Hamilton (
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Ind., 1951), 14–15.
                  
                     7 Barnhart, Henry Hamilton and George Rogers Clark,
                            38, 63–64; Kellogg, British Regime, 151.
                  
                     8 James A. James, The Life of George Rogers Clark (
                                Chicago
                            , 1928), 145.
                  
                     9 Judge John Law, The Colonial History of 
                                    Vincennes
                                 under the French, British, and American Governments … (
                                Vincennes
                            , Ind., 1858).
               
                     as to dates and locations.10 The 1880 Lake
                    atlas barely mentions the fort, and the Hardacre atlas of 1903 describes Fort 
                        Knox
                     II at the site up the river but says that Harrison probably erected this fort during
                    the War of 1812.11 Henry S. Cauthorn, in 1892, is correct in his location of
                    Fort Sackville; but, entirely ignorant of Fort 
                        Knox
                     I, he insists that there was no fort at Buntin Street and the Wabash
                    River. He mentions blockhouses built after 1800 within the town limits for protection
                    from Indian attacks and locates one "midway between Park Place [presumably the Parke
                    residence which was near the present Park and First streets] and the Harrison Mansion." In
                    1901 he reiterates his conviction that Fort Sackville was the only fort in town.12 Hubbard 
                        Madison
                     Smith in his history published in 1902 gives considerable attention to the question of
                    forts. He correctly states that the name Fort Knox was given to defenses built in more than one
                    location and concludes that the name was applied to Fort Patrick Henry in town. He further asserts,
                    however, that the location up the river was never fortified but was a garrison occupied by 
                        United States
                     troops. He calls this garrison Camp 
                        Knox
                    , the name given to a camp in Civil War days in an entirely different spot.13
            
            George E. Green, another local historian, in 1911 correctly applies the name Fort 
                        Knox
                     to Fort Sackville but gives no date. He also mentions the other two locations but with
                    no authority other than tradition." A short anonymous notice in the Indiana
                        Magazine of History of 1914 cites a map drawn by John Mellish in 1818 which shows the fort
                    located up the river. This notice also mentions a letter of Captain George Rogers Clark Floyd on the
                    subject. Originally quoted in James B. Finley's Life Among the Indians,
                    this letter locates Fort 
                        Knox
                     "three miles above 
                        Vincennes
                    ." The 
                  
                     10
                            History of 
                                    Knox
                                 and 
                                    Daviess
                                 Counties, Indiana … (
                                Chicago
                            , 1886), 238–40.
                  
                     11
                            An Illustrated Historical Atlas of 
                                    Knox
                                 County, Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1880), 38–39; F. C. Hardacre (comp.), Historical Atlas
                                of 
                                    Knox
                                 County, Indiana (
                                Vincennes
                            , Ind., 1903), 38.
                  
                     12 Henry S. Cauthorn, St. Francis Xavier Cathedral,
                                        
                           Vincennes, Indiana
                        
                      (n.p., 1892), 39; Henry S. Cauthorn, History of the City of 
                           Vincennes, Indiana
                         from 1702
                                to 1901 (
                                Terre Haute
                            , Ind., 1902), 32–39.
                  
                     13 Hubbard 
                                Madison
                             Smith, Historical Sketches of 
                                    Old Vincennes
                                 … (
                                Vincennes
                            , Ind., 1903), 57–73.
                  
                     14 George E. Green, History of 
                                    Old Vincennes
                                 and 
                                    Knox County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1911), I, 259–60n.
               
                     magazine article further
                    says—incorrectly—that this fort was built by John F. Hamtramck in 1787 under
                    orders from General Josiah Harmer.15
            
            The foregoing resume of the work of historians, who might be expected to know the facts, points to
                    the unreliability of tradition as a source of information. The then undiscovered and unpublished
                    records of the period were inaccessible to these local historians; and the better-remembered events
                    of Harrison's administration as governor tended to emphasize the out-of-town fort,
                    especially as all observable traces of the town structures had presumably disappeared. The up-river
                    location is the only one known to the majority of the present residents of 
                        Vincennes
                     and to many historians as well.
            A source definitely locating Fort 
                        Knox
                     I within 
                        Vincennes
                     is Robert Buntin's, "A Plan of the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     in the Indiana Territory, as established by an Ordinance of the Trustees of the said
                    Borough on the 18th November, 1816." Buntin came to 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1793 and, as a surveyor and holder of many public offices, knew the town well. On
                    his map at a spot on the northeast side of the present Buntin Street is a lightly sketched plan and
                    the notation "Fort 
                        Knox
                     in 1790." Buntin's map also shows Fort Sackville,
                    1778–1782, and indicates another structure parallel to and the same shape as Fort
                    Sackville, but nearer the river. This might be Fort 
                        Knox
                     III which was no doubt known to him. His forts are parallelograms longer and narrower
                    than the usual shape of forts.16
            
            Historians have learned little concerning the location of Fort 
                        Knox
                     from the contemporary travel accounts as references to the fort by early travelers are
                    few. John Hecke-welder in 1792 does refer to a fort that could have been located only in town. He
                    writes, "about 11/4 mile from the city there are several round hills
                    called Sugar-loaves. From them the city and fortress (Fort 
                        Knox
                    ) present a very pretty 
                  
                     15 "Fort 
                                Knox
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History, X (September, 1914),
                            321; James B. Finley, Life Among the Indians … (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1860), 188.
                  
                     16 Eobert Buntin, "A Plan of the Borough of 
                                Vincennes
                             in the Indiana Territory, as Established by an Ordinance of the Trustees of the
                            Said Borough on the 18th November, 1816," photostat in Indiana Division, Indiana
                            State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; Clarence E. Carter (ed.), Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (26 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1934), III, 416.
               
                    
                    
                  MAP
                            OF VINCENNES, INDIANA, ADAPTED FROM THE BUNTIN MAP
                            OF 1816 (p. 55).
                  "A" locates both the original French fort and Fort Sackville;
                  "B" is probably Fort 
                                Knox
                             III; "C" is Fort 
                                Knox
                             I; and
                  "D" indicates the direction of Fort 
                                Knox
                             II from the city.
                  Map drawn by Herman J. Viola.
               
                     aspect." Since Fort 
                        Knox
                     II could not possibly have been seen from these hills, now known to be Indian mounds,
                    Heckewelder must have referred to a fort within 
                        Vincennes
                    . This traveler further states that as he and his company were starting to 
                        Philadelphia
                    , the first stage of the journey being to the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    , they passed Fort 
                        Knox
                     from which seven cannon shots were fired. Since Fort 
                        Knox
                     II was several miles distant from the road to the Falls, this, too, indicates that
                    there must have been a fort in town.17 Says Constantin Francois Chasseboent
                    Volney, who was in 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1796, "Adjoining the village and river is a space, enclosed by a ditch
                    eight feet wide, and by sharp stakes six feet high. This is called the fort, and is a sufficient
                    safeguard against surprises from Indians."18 This reference seems to be
                    to Fort 
                        Knox
                     I as there was probably little left of Fort Sackville by this time. The journal of Dr.
                    George Hunter, who also visited 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1796, further reinforces the existence and location of Fort Knox I. Hunter says,
                    "The U. States have on the river at the upper end of the village a Square Fort which has a
                    blockhouse at each Angle and the intermediate space picketed."19
            
            Moses Austin, who arrived in 
                        Vincennes
                     on January 1, 1797, reported, "the Garrison at this place is Command.d by
                    Capt. Parsters [Pasteur], it [sic] Consists of 50 men. the [sic] fort or Citadel Commands the Town and River 
                        Wabash
                    , in which is four six pounders."20 Since the fort up the
                    river hardly commanded the town, Austin's statement is further proof that an earlier
                    fortification existed within 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            The papers of General Josiah Harmar provide further authoritative material on the history and
                    location of Fort 
                  
                     17 "Narrative of John Heckewelder's Journey to the 
                                Wabash
                             in 1792," 
                        
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Magazine of History and Biography, XII (1888), 170, 173; Eli Lilly,
                                Prehistoric Antiquities of Indiana … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1837), 76–80.
                  
                     18 Constantin Francois Chasseboenf Volney, A View of the
                                Soil and Climate of the 
                                    United States
                                 of America (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1804), 332.
                  
                     19 John Francis McDermott (ed.), The Western Journals of
                                Dr. George Hunter, 1796–1805 (Transactions of the American
                                Philosophical Society, N. S., Vol. LIII, Part 4; 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1963), 27n.
                  
                     20 Moses Austin, "A Memorandum of Moses Austin's
                            Journey from the Lead Mines in the Country of Wythe, in the State of 
                                Virginia
                            , to the Lead Mines in the Province of 
                                Louisiana
                             West of the 
                                Mississippi
                            , 1796, 1797," American Historical Review, V (April,
                            1900), 529.
               
                     Knox I.21 At the end of the Revolution when
                    settlers began crossing the mountains in ever increasing numbers, Congress established the First
                    American Regiment for the protection of this region and placed Lieutenant Colonel Josiah Harmar, a
                    Revolutionary officer, in command with his headquarters at Fort Pitt. Since Harmar's
                    primary duty was to protect the frontier, he established a series of fortifications down the 
                        Ohio
                     from Fort Pitt.22
            
            There was in 1785 and 1786 continuing trouble with the Indians who did not view with equanimity the
                    invasion of their hunting grounds by the white settlers. The people of 
                        Vincennes
                     were greatly alarmed and requested George Rogers Clark, then at 
                        Louisville
                    , to come to their aid. 
                        Kentucky
                     settlers were also concerned; and, with authority from 
                        Virginia
                    , the field officers of the District of 
                        Kentucky
                     appointed Clark commander-in-chief of an expedition against the northwestern tribes.
                    Provision for the troops was uncertain; and, with the usual unreliability of militia, many of the
                    men mutinied and turned back, forcing Clark to abandon the attempt to subdue the enemy.23
            
            As a result of some highhanded actions during the march, Clark was ordered to return to 
                        Virginia
                     to account for his deeds. A garrison under Captain Valentine Thomas Dalton was left in 
                        Vincennes
                    . Without adequate supplies, Dalton's troops preyed upon the inhabitants; and a
                    state of disorder prevailed. Taking cognizance of the situation, Congress on April 21, 1787,
                    resolved that the commanding officer of the First Regiment of the 
                        United States
                     should proceed 
                  
                     21 The Harmar Papers are located in the William L. Clements Library,
                            University of 
                        Michigan, Ann Arbor
                     . Materials in the papers relative to
                            Fort 
                                Knox
                             include entries in his diary dating from 1793 to 1798, letters to and from
                            Secretary at War Henry Knox, the long series of letters written by Hamtramck to Harmar while
                            the former was in command at Fort 
                                Knox
                            , 1787–1791, Harmar's replies, copied into his letter books,
                            and letters to and from other persons connected with the military posts in the Northwest
                            Territory. The Lyman Draper Collection, The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin, Madison
                     , contains copies of portions of the Harmar Papers. A
                            few of Harmar's letters are in William Henry Smith (ed.) The St. Clair
                                Papers: Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair … (2 vols., 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1882). The Fort 
                                Knox
                             material has been published in Gayle Thornbrough, Outpost on the 
                                    Wabash
                                , 1787–1791 (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol.
                            XIX; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1950).
                  
                     22 Thornbrough, Outpost on the 
                                    Wabash
                                
                     , 12–13.
                  
                     23 This expedition was, of course, conducted without authority from
                            the national government and in defiance of the government's announced policy of
                            peaceful negotiation with the Indians. Ibid., 13–15.
               
                     to St. Vincent and take measures to dispossess the lawless
                    garrison. Accordingly Harmar and his forces left for 
                        Vincennes
                     on July 6, approximately two weeks before Congress passed a second resolution directing
                    the lieutenant colonel to proceed to Post St. Vincent and hold a treaty with the Shawnee and 
                        Wabash
                     Indians.24
            
            Upon his arrival in 
                        Vincennes
                     on July 17 Harmar encamped "near a small stockade erected by General Clark on
                    the banks of the 
                        Wabash
                    ." This was no doubt Fort Patrick Henry. Apparently the fort's
                    condition was such that troops could not occupy it, for on the same day Harmar moved "about
                    a quarter of a mile higher up the 
                        Wabash
                     and encamped near its banks."25 Major Ebenezer Denny
                    recorded in his journal on July 11 that the move was for the sake of good water.26 Fort 
                        Knox
                     I was evidently built on this spot as there is no further mention in Harmar's
                    diary or Hamtramck's letters of a change of location.
            In a letter to his wife on August 8 Harmar wrote concerning 
                        Vincennes
                    , "This is a considerable village near 400 houses, the people are poor and
                    generally Canadians." He described a "genteel entertainment" given on
                    July 21 for all the officers; a social event given by the officers for Colonel Jean Marie Philippe
                    Le Gras, the magistrate, Father Gibault, the priest, and others on August 2; and dinner, "a
                    very splendid entertainment," probably for the officers at the home of Monsieur Francis
                    Vigo on August 4.27
            
            While he remained at 
                        Vincennes
                    , Harmar issued a proclamation relative to settlers on the public lands and received
                    addresses from both the French and American inhabitants, accompanied by a petition to Congress,
                    which he forwarded to the War Office. These documents were chiefly on the subject of land titles.
                    Harmar told of the trip and his first 
                  
                     24 Smith, St. Clair Papers, II, 20–21;
                            Thornbrough, Outpost on the 
                                    Wabash
                                
                     , 15–16; Carter, Territorial Papers, II,
                            27–50.
                  
                     25 Diary of Josiah Harmar, July 17, 18, 1787, Harmar Papers.
                  
                     26
                            Military Journal of Ebenezer Denny (Memoirs of the Historical Society of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                
                     , Vol. VII; 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1860), 304–305. Denny was one of two soldiers who accompanied
                            Harmar and left diary accounts which have been published. The second soldier was Joseph
                            Buell whose journal is located in Samuel P. Hildreth, Pioneer History: Being an
                                Account of the First Examinations of the Ohio Valley
                            … (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1848), 154–58.
                  
                     27 Harmar to wife, Aug. 8, 1787, Harmar Papers.
               
                     days in 
                        Vincennes
                     in a letter to Secretary at War Henry Knox, August 7, 1787.28
            
            On August 9 Harmar with Ensign Nathan McDowell and a party consisting of a sergeant captain and
                    twenty-eight privates departed for 
                        Kaskaskia
                    . He visited the other French towns on the 
                        Mississippi
                     and also 
                        St. Louis
                     and St. Genevieve on the Spanish side. In these two towns he was handsomely entertained
                    by the commandants, Francisco Cruzat and Manuel Perez, respectively.29
            
            He returned to 
                        Vincennes
                     September 3, and two days later one hundred ten Piankashaw Indians arrived for a
                    conference. They remained several days and expressed satisfaction at the prospect of peace and
                    friendship with the Americans.30 Harmar remained in 
                        Vincennes
                     until October 1 when he returned overland to the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    . He chronicles nothing further of importance in his diary for this time, the entries
                    being almost entirely about the weather.
            Upon Harmar's departure from 
                        Vincennes
                     Major John Francis Hamtramck, a Canadian who had fought with the Americans during the
                    Eevolutionary War, took command of the ninety-five men remaining at the post. The construction of a
                    fort was Hamtramck's first consideration. On November 3 he wrote Harmar, "The
                    building of our garrison comes on but very slow, owing to the great scarcity and difficulties of
                    obtaining the timber."31 Since 
                        Vincennes
                     was situated on "an irregular savannah, eight miles in length by three in
                    breadth, skirted by an eternal forest,"32 timber for the fort had to be
                    brought from a considerable distance with no very good means of transportation. By April 13, 1788,
                    however, Hamtramck wrote, that if war occurred, "I am now in a state of deffence [sic]. My piquets are up and the block houses are to their second story."
                    He reported that he had been obliged to hire ten Canadians at a dollar a day as he could not spare a
                    man to bring in the piquets from the great distance from the fort. Vigo, helpful as usual to the
                    American cause, paid the men as Hamtramck did not have enough provisions to 
                  
                     28 Thornbrough, Outpost on the 
                                    Wabash
                                
                     , 24–25, 34–41; Carter, Territorial
                                Papers, II, 58–63, 65, 66–67.
                  
                     29 Thornbrough, Outpost on the 
                                    Wabash
                                
                     , 47–51.
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., 51–52.
                  
                     31
                            Ibid., 44, 53.
                  
                     32 Volney, View of the Soil and Climate of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 69.
               
                    
                    
                  PLAN
                            OF POST VINCENNES (FORT KNOX I), 1788. Original In McHenry Papers. Indiana
                            Historical Society Library.
               
                     pay them with food. In this same letter the commandant stated
                    that he had established new courts which would dispense justice at a reasonable cost, an advantage
                    hitherto not available to the inhabitants of the town.33
            
            Hamtramck also mentioned a lack of ground around the fort and asked for authority to trade some of
                    the public land for ground adjacent to the garrison. At the previously established forts on the 
                        Ohio
                     the soldiers supplemented their rations of bread and meat by raising vegetables, and
                    this is probably one reason for the commandant's request.34
            
            Hamtramck requested a flag as "a piece of forniture [sic] that the Indians
                    much estime and they have asked me a number times wy [sic] I had not
                    one." Bunting was sent, but Harmar said that more ground must await the arrival of the
                    judges. There is no record of further allotment to the garrison.35
            
            Francis Vigo, undaunted by his inability to collect from the government the sums advanced to supply
                    Clark's expedition against 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1779, furnished the new garrison with various items during its first winter. These
                    included two houses for hospital purposes, 136 bushels of corn, the use of a horse and a
                    "perouge," and cash advanced to pay ten men employed in bringing provisions from
                    the mouth of the 
                        Wabash
                    . This account, 163£, 2s, 6d, dragged along, Vigo himself presenting it at
                    the War Office in October. After much correspondence back and forth and various technical objections
                    from the 
                        United States
                     accountant's office, he was finally reimbursed by the contractor in July,
                        1789.36
            
            Hamtramck's first year at the post was completed without any incident of great importance.
                    The soldiers did not relish life in the West. Captain Ferguson wrote Harmar that he expected
                    difficulty in reenlisting the men of his company, remarking that the soldiers did not like the place
                    and were ill fed and supplied. Hamtramck had previously written in the same vein, "Not a
                    man has reinlisted [sic] yet and imagine very few will; the soldiers dont [sic] like the place. It is too dear for them."37
            
            
               
                  33 Thornbrough, Outpost on the 
                                Wabash
                            
                  , 67–73.
               
                  34
                        Ibid., 72–73.
               
                  35
                        Ibid., 73.
               
                  36
                        Ibid., 90, 92, 96, 148–50, 156, 169.
               
                  37
                        Ibid., 77, 104.
            
            
            Living conditions for the soldiers were not pleasant. Their fare was poor, and sometimes near famine
                    conditions prevailed. Transportation difficulties and local crop failures were contributing factors.
                    The post surgeon, John Elliott, requisitioned vinegar as necessary for the troops who were living
                    entirely on salt provisions. There were constantly many persons on the sick list, largely owing to
                    the prevalence of malaria. For the sick Elliott further requisitioned a few delicacies, including
                        
                  "200 pounds 
                                Brown
                             Sugar
                  12 pounds Bohea Tea
                  20 pounds Chocolate
                  1 Kegg Rice
                  1 Quarter Cask Port Wine
                  1 Barrell Vinegar"
               The pharmacopoeia seems to have consisted of bark (quinine) and tartar emetic, both, at
                    times, of poor quality or entirely lacking.38
            
            Pay was poor for all grades. A lieutenant received $20.00 per month, an ensign
                    $18.00, a sergeant $5.00, a corporal $4.00, and the humble private
                    $3.00. Payment was frequently late. Prices on the contrary were high. A list of those
                    current April 4, 1788, included the following: 
                  
                     
                     Dolls
                  
                  
                     "Corn pr bushell
                     2
                     0
                  
                  
                     Flour pr Hundred
                     7
                     00
                  
                  
                     porke pr lb
                     
                     30
                  
                  
                     Beef pr lb
                     
                     15
                  
                  
                     Burdea wine pr bottle
                     2
                     0
                  
                  
                     Spirits pr Gallon
                     12
                     0
                  
                  
                     Whiskey pr Gal
                     8
                     0
                  
                  
                     Butter pr lb
                     1
                     0
                  
                  
                     Eggs pr Dowzen
                     1
                     0
                  
                  
                     Loaf sugar pr lb
                     1
                     0
                  
                  
                     
                        
                                    Brown
                                 do pr lb
                     
                     60
                  
                  
                     Coffee pr lb
                     1
                     45
                  
                  
                     A [illeg.] foul
                     1
                     0
                  
                  
                     Potatoes pr Bushell
                     2
                     0
                  
                  
                     Onions do
                     5
                     0
                  
                  
                     Cabbage pr head
                     
                     15
                  
                  
                     Turnips pr bushell
                     1
                     0"39
                     
                  
               
                    
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., 75, and passim.
                  
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., 73–74.
               
                     Clothing was also expensive. Hamtramck on March, 1790, requested
                    Harmar to procure a suit for his private servant as one would cost forty or fifty dollars in 
                        Vincennes
                    .40 In view of these facts and the severe discipline under which the
                    troops lived it is remarkable that any of them remained in the army when their terms of enlistment
                    expired, but the complement of troops at 
                        Vincennes
                     seems to have remained about stationary.
            The year 1788 opened with the excitement of an Indian attack. In a letter of August 12 Hamtramck
                    reported that on July 27 Indians had surprised a convoy of stores coming up the 
                        Wabash
                    . Ten men had been killed and sixteen wounded in the ensuing attack. He suspected
                    treachery on the part of some of the inhabitants in passing to the Indians information obtained from
                    the "express." Most of the supplies were captured; and the garrison was placed in
                    a bad situation as the troops had no drugs, no flour, only two months pork, no bark, and no emetic.
                    The misfortune was greater since soldiers and villagers were as usual full of malaria. In the letter
                    of August 12 Hamtramck also enclosed a plan of the garrison and asked Harmar to give it a name.41
            
            In August a party of Kentuckians under Patrick 
                        Brown
                     arrived at Post 
                        Vincennes
                     and reported that they had killed some Indians. The French inhabitants were disturbed
                    by the incident as it threatened their usual peaceful relations with the tribes. Hamtramck was
                    forced to give 
                        Brown
                     six horses, but the villagers would not permit the Kentuckians to pass through the
                    town. According to Hamtramck the party was greatly exasperated and would have made an expedition
                    against the town but for the protection of the troops.42
            
            According to Moses Henry, a prominent citizen of 
                        Vincennes
                     who had close contact with the Indians, the Shawnee in the area were indifferent toward
                    a treaty with the Americans perhaps because the British had told them that the Kentuckians would not
                    honor it. The Potawatomi, on the contrary, had sent word that they wished to come under 
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., 225.
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., 105–108, 126–36. Hamtramck later appointed a
                            board of officers to inquire how a group of Frenchmen had acquired part of the provisions.
                            Nothing was proved against the alleged culprits, but the inhabitants of 
                                Vincennes
                             hastened to assure Hamtramck of their fidelity and innocence. He promptly
                            accepted their assurance.
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., 114–17.
               
                     the protection of the Americans in the hope of assistance in
                    their war with the Wea. Hamtramck indicated he would promise protection but awaited orders as to
                    backing their war.43
            
            In a letter of October 13, 1788, Hamtramck acknowledged the receipt of a flag and asked approval of
                    his quartermaster and Indian accounts against the 
                        United States
                    . In regard to the latter he stated, "I think without flatering [sic] myself that the 
                        United States
                     will have no reason to complain of my generosity. On the contrary I am of the opinion
                    that I have not been sufficiently liberal, but you can well judge of the
                        reason."44
            
            Hamtramck complimented Captain Ferguson on the appearance and discipline of his company and also upon
                    his efforts in building the garrison. How he achieved so much with his company is hard to understand
                    since the men of Captain Smith's company were "not able to do duty for the want of
                    shirts and shoes." In a letter of the same date Harmar directed Hamtramck to name the fort
                    Fort 
                        Knox
                    .45
            
            Occasional Indian murders, rumors of a concerted attack, difficulties of the settlers in the 
                        Illinois
                     country because of lack of a government, George Morgan's settlement in the
                    Spanish territory to which many were attracted, illness of the troops, and uncertainty of supplies
                    were the chief items reported in 1789 and early 1790.46
            
            Winthrop Sargent, secretary of the Northwest Territory, of which the Indiana area was then a part,
                    arrived in 
                        Vincennes
                     on June 20, 1790, accompanied by Judges John Cleves Symmes and George Turner. The long
                    awaited visit of the group was for the purpose of setting up civil government, organizing the
                    militia, and settling land claims. The citizens of 
                        Vincennes
                     presented an address of welcome and highly commended Hamtramck on his conduct of
                    affairs in the village. Sargent in a letter to Hamtramck on July 16, 1790, expressed complete
                    approbation of the commandant of Fort 
                        Knox
                    .47
            
            
               
                  43
                        Ibid., 119; Hamtramck to Harmar, Oct. 13, 1788, Harmar Papers.
               
                  44 Hamtramck to Harmar, Oct. 13, 1788, Harmar Papers; see also
                        Thornbrough, Outpost on the 
                                Wabash
                            
                  , 121, 123.
               
                  45 Hamtramck to Harmar, Oct. 13, 1788, Harmar Papers; see also
                        Thornbrough, Outpost on the 
                                Wabash
                            
                  , 125.
               
                  46 Harmar Papers, passim; Thornbrough, Outpost on the 
                                Wabash
                            , passim.
               
               
                  47 Thornbrough, Outpost on the 
                                Wabash
                            
                  , 16; Carter, Territorial Papers, II, 291–92,
                        293; III, 321.
            
            
            In the spring of 1790 Hamtramck forwarded Governor Arthur St. Clair's offer of peace to the 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Miami
                     Indians. The missions of his emissaries, Pierre and Antoine Gamelin, were unsuccessful.
                    As the situation was very precarious, Hamtramck was glad to receive in August news of
                    Harmar's proposed expedition against the tribes. In this connection Hamtramck was ordered
                    to proceed up the 
                        Wabash
                     to prevent the 
                        Wabash
                     Indians from joining the 
                        Miami
                    .48 Delayed by the late arrival of quartermaster's stores
                    and the 
                        Kentucky
                     militia, Hamtramck marched north on September 30, 1790, with about 330 men. At the
                    Vermilion he found only empty houses. Lacking sufficient provisions he returned to 
                        Vincennes
                     and wrote to Harmar on November 2: 
                        I could not proceed on full allowance to the Weeya where I had an anxious desire to go.
                            …
                        I had in a moment a number of very chagrining reflections to surmount—the first to
                            have gone so far without seeing an enimy, the small state of my supplys, so small a body of
                            troops and in whom (from a number of information) I had so little confidence of their
                            keeping with me, the regulars exepted [sic]. A number of militia had
                            deserted on our march. …49
                  
                    Hamtramck had ordered half rations, but the militia refused to accept them. The commandant
                    observed, "Had I only to deal with regular troops I should order them to live on the barks
                    of the trees if I though it necessary." Major William Whitley, commander of the 
                        Kentucky
                     militia who had accompanied Hamtramck, reported that his men would not continue the
                    march; thus, the commandant gave up the idea of proceeding. He explained to Harmar that if the
                    Indians had not been there he could only have burned the town. If they had been there, he feared a
                    "severe Drubbing." Thirty of his men were sick with fever or measles, and he
                    believed the Indians numbered about six hundred. Hamtramck expressed the hope that he had diverted
                    the 
                        Wabash
                     Indians from joining the 
                        Miami
                    .50
            
            In a letter of November 28 Hamtramck mentioned hearing of Harmar's defeat and also reported
                    that six hundred 
                        Wabash
                     Indians had been waiting for him, none of whom had 
                  
                     48 For the background to Harmar's offer and
                            Hamtramck's subsequent actions see Thornbrough, Outpost on the 
                                    Wabash
                                
                     , 212n, 224n, 233, 237; Smith, St. Clair Papers, II,
                            125–26, 135, 136; American State Papers, Indian Affairs (2
                            vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1832–1834), I, 92–94.
                  
                     49 Thornbrough, Outpost on the 
                                    Wabash
                                
                     , 260.
                  
                     50
                            Ibid., 260–61.
               
                     gone against the general. He also described the fort as being in
                    dire straits: no meat or flour, no money, no credit, and living on corn and meat from a hunter.51 Routine matters were covered in the remainder of Hamtramck's letters
                    to Harmar, who was removed from his command on March 4, 1791, but absolved of any negligence.52
            
            Hamtramck remained in command of Fort 
                        Knox
                     until the fall of 1791 when he was ordered to join St. Clair, who, as commander of the
                    army in the Northwest Territory, was preparing an expedition against the Indians. At the time of St.
                    Clair's defeat in what is now northwest 
                        Ohio
                     on November 4, 1791, Hamtramck, who had been convoying the provision train, was not
                    with the main force. Informed of the rout by the fleeing militia, he deemed it best to return to
                    protect Fort Jefferson. Later, when joined by the remnants of St. Clair's army, Hamtramck
                    proceeded to Fort 
                        Washington
                    .53 Logan Esarey in his history of Indiana has suggested that the
                    Indians attacked St. Clair because they knew Hamtramck and his experienced Indian fighters were not
                    with the army.54 Hamtramck was later arrested by Colonel William Darke and
                    accused of cowardice in retreating but was at once acquitted by a court martial and sent back to
                    Fort 
                        Knox
                    . Lieutenant Abner Prior had commanded the fort in Hamtramck's absence.55
            
            Harmar and St. Clair having failed to subdue the 
                        Miami
                     Indians, General Anthony Wayne was ordered to the West to prepare an army for action.
                    Hamtramck, now promoted to lieutenant colonel, joined 
                        Wayne
                     in February, 1793, as commander of the First Sub-Legion. (This was a division of the
                    newly named army, the Legion of the 
                        United States
                    .) Captain Thomas Pasteur relieved him as commandant at Fort 
                        Knox
                     and arrived at 
                        Vincennes
                     in June with a detachment to occupy the fort.56
            
            Hamtramck's tour of duty at Fort 
                        Knox
                     shows him to have been a man of intelligence, common sense, and tact. He 
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., 266–67.
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., 18.
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., 284n; Smith, St. Clair Papers, II,
                            262–71.
                  
                     54 Logan Esarey, A History of Indiana from Its
                                Exploration to 1850 (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1915), I, 118.
                  
                     55 Smith, St. Clair Papers, II, 171, 270.
                  
                     56
                            Dictionary of American Biography (20 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1928–1937), IV, 215–16; F. Clever Bald,
                            "Colonel John Francis Hamtramck," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XLIV (December, 1948), 335–54.
               
                     seems to have risen above his rather unusual physical
                    appearance—he was called "The Frog on Horseback"—and to have
                    inspired respect and affection while maintaining a reputation as an excellent disciplinarian. As an
                    administrator of civil affairs he was admirable under great difficulties. He merits remembrance by
                    the town which he protected at a critical time.
            The administration of Captain Pasteur who succeeded Hamtramck is reflected in his orderly book, dated
                    June 24, 1793 through May 16, 1797. The entries, which deal mainly with infractions of discipline
                    and punishments therefor, give some idea of the life of the soldiers at the fort. Several
                    infractions occurred during Pasteur's first two months of command, but prompt punishment
                    soon reduced the number substantially. Sleeping while on guard, drunkenness, going to the village
                    without permission, and riotous conduct were chief offenses. A court martial of non-commissioned
                    officers tried the cases and prescribed the punishment, generally lashes. The number varied from
                    thirty-five, fifty, or seventy-five up to the legal limit of one hundred, usually inflicted at
                    evening roll call. Several times the commandant forgave the culprit because of previous good
                    conduct. The only unusual "crimes," for which certain privates were brought to
                    trial, were imposing on and cheating a Mr. Reed of Post 
                        Vincennes
                    , the killing of a hog belonging to an unspecified person, and an attempt to defame the
                    character of a young lady of the village. Financial restitution was made to the owner of the hog and
                    the usual lashes administered for the other offenses. These are the only indications of relations
                    with the village.57
            
            Considering the restricted life at the fort, it is surprising that insubordination was not more
                    frequent. Nothing in the way of amusement, not even card playing, was allowed. Visits to the town
                    were only by permission and only to specified places "where there [sic]
                    business calls them." The soldiers celebrated the Fourth of July and the victory of Fort
                    Recovery in 1794 with an exemption from fatigue duty and an extra allotment of whiskey. On St.
                    Patrick's Day the Irishmen in the corps were accorded the same rewards in honor of their
                    patron saint. Despite these restrictions Pasteur's 
                  
                     57 Milo M. Quaife (ed.), "Fort 
                                Knox
                             Orderly Book, 1793–97," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, XXXII (June, 1936), 146, 154, 162, and passim.
                  
               
                     orderly book mentions desertion only once.58
                    Probably distance from other settlements served as a deterrent.
            Definite bounds for the troops were set up near the garrison. According to tradition the townspeople
                    objected to the presence of the troops—perhaps due to the riotous conduct described in
                    the orderly book. Certainly there was drunkenness on the part of the soldiers with no doubt the
                    usual consequences. Sentiment for moving the garrison was evidently developing; and this as well as
                    the lack of ground for raising food and the difficulty of obtaining firewood, were reasons for the
                    later move to the up-river location.59
            
            During the winter of 1793–1794 William Clark, brother of George Rogers Clark and later of
                    Lewis and Clark expedition fame, was stationed at Fort 
                        Knox
                     in charge of a small detachment. He was a lientenant in the Fourth Sub-Legion, serving
                    under 
                        Wayne
                    . While on an expedition up the 
                        Wabash
                     Clark was frozen in for twenty days and had to depend on his rifle for subsistence.
                    From 
                        Vincennes
                     he moved to 
                        Cincinnati
                     and was with 
                        Wayne
                     at Fallen Timbers.60
            
            According to John B. Dillon's history of Indiana Captain Robert Buntin succeeded Pasteur as
                    commandant at Fort 
                        Knox
                    . Buntin was a captain of militia in 
                        Hamilton
                     County, 
                        Ohio
                    , when he removed to 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1793. Shortly after his arrival he was made a militia captain and appointed to the
                    civil office of gentleman register and notary public and in subsequent years to numerous other
                    offices. His chief occupation seems to have been that of surveyor. He was also authorized, along
                    with Henry Vanderburgh and Francis Vigo, to sell liquor to the Indians. As it was assumed that the
                    Indians would get liquor from some quarter, these men were to furnish such quantities as
                    "shall seem meet." Half the profit was to be theirs, and the other half was to be
                    given "to the benefit of 
                        Knox
                     County."61 Buntin's son, Robert Buntin, Jr., a
                    lieutenant in the army of the 
                        United States
                    , commanded at Fort 
                        Knox
                     in 1811.62 This fact probably confused Dillon since no record
                    indicating that the elder Buntin succeeded Pasteur has been found.
            
               
                  58
                        Ibid., 139, 146, 158, and passim.
               
               
                        59
                        Ibid., passim.
                    
               
                  60
                        Dictionary of American Biography, II, 142.
               
                  61 John B. Dillon, A History of Indiana, from Its Earliest
                            Exploration by Europeans to the Close of the Territorial Government in 1816
                        … (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1859), 397; Carter, Territorial Papers, III, 412–14.
               
                  62
                        American State Papers, Public Lands (8 vols., 
                            Washington
                        , 1832–1861), IV, 919.
            
            
            William Henry Harrison, who came to 
                        Vincennes
                     in January, 1801, as governor of Indiana Territory, wrote to his friend James Findlay
                    of 
                        Cincinnati
                     in October of that year, "We have a Company of troops commanded by Honest F.
                    Johnston of the 4th. We generally spend half the day together making war upon the partridges, grouse
                    and fish—the latter we take in great numbers in a seine." Harrison did not
                    indicate just when Johnston arrived in 
                        Vincennes
                    , but he became a captain in the Fourth Infantry November 5, 1800. The man who
                    immediately succeeded Pasteur in 1798, unless it was Johnston, who was then a lieutenant in the
                    Fourth, is unknown.63
            
            By September 17, 1802, Captain Cornelius Lyman was at Fort 
                        Knox
                     as commandant. Transferred to the First Infantry April 1, 1802, he witnessed on
                    September 17 the minutes of an Indian conference concerning lands in the vicinity of 
                        Vincennes
                     and ceding four square miles at the salt lick on the Saline River
                    to the 
                        United States
                    .64
            
            The following year, 1803, the 
                        United States
                     government decided to move the Fort 
                        Knox
                     garrison. On February 21, 1803, Secretary of War Henry Dearborn wrote to Governor
                    Harrison desiring to know what expense would be necessary for repairing the barracks and
                    officer's quarters and for what sum land could be procured. On April 13 
                        Dearborn
                     wrote to Lyman, "When you have consulted with Govr. Harrison and decided on
                    the most suitable Scite [sic] for a military post at 
                        Vincennes
                     where the land can be obtained on reasonable terms, you will please to inform me
                    accordingly, noting price pr. acre from ten to one hundred acres." Apparently either Lyman
                    or Harrison wrote to 
                        Dearborn
                     concerning the availability of land, and the Secretary ordered the purchase because
                    sometime later the commandant was told to arrange to spend the hot season near the old barracks as
                    the new post could not be commenced until autumn.65
            
            The land selected was at the 
                        Little Rock
                     or Petit Rocher, a well-known outcrop, about three miles up the river. At an earlier
                    date Pierre Gamelin had assigned to Toussaint Dubois 
                  
                     63 Logan Esarey (ed.), Messages and Letters of William
                                Henry Harrison (2 vols., Indiana Historical Collections, Vol.
                            VII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1922), I, 35; Francis B. Heitman, Historical Register and
                                Dictionary of the 
                                    United States
                                 Army … (
                                Washington
                            , 1903), 374.
                  
                     64 Heitman, Historical Register, 422; Esarey, Messages and Letters, I, 57.
                  
                     65 Carter, Territorial Papers, VII, 88; U.S., Office
                            of the Secretary of War, Letters Books, I, 411–12, National Archives, 
                                Washington
                            .
               
                     a considerable tract of land running back from the 
                        Wabash
                    . On June 11, 1796, Dubois in turn had sold one hundred acres to Jeremiah Buckley for
                    one hundred forty dollars. Buckley returned to 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and there died. Dubois then sold the same land, this time one hundred
                    arpents—about eighty-five acres—to the 
                        United States
                    . The deed, executed November 7, 1803, indicates that Buckley was presumed to have died
                    without heirs and that the 
                        United States
                    
                    
                        through the application of William Henry Harrison, esq., governor of the Indiana Territory,
                            and Cornelius Lyman, esq., captain in the first regiment of infantry, and commanding at Fort 
                                Knox
                            , applied to the said Toussaint Dubois, by the direction of the Secretary of
                            War, to convey to the said 
                                United States
                            , for the purpose of building and establishing a garrison thereon, the said one
                            hundred arpents of land so by him agreed to be sold to the said Jeremiah Buckley, which he,
                            the said Toussaint Dubois has consented to do on their paying him the said sum of one
                            hundred and twenty-six dollars so, as aforesaid due by the said Jeremiah Buckley to him, and
                            on condition of the said 
                                United States
                             satisfying and compensating … the said Jeremiah Buckley, or his
                            heirs or assigns, for his or their estate, right, title, or interest of and in the said
                            tract of one hundred arpents. …66
                  
                    
            
            This tract was probably the most advantageous one near the town, being well-timbered land at the top
                    of a considerable slope back from the river with a good view up and down the stream. Part way down
                    the slope was (and still is) an excellent spring, and the Petit Rocher furnished a good place to tie
                    up boats. The easiest approach to the tract would have been by water as it is unlikely that there
                    was much of a road through the woods.
            On August 4, 1803, 
                        Dearborn
                     wrote to Lyman instructing him to commence the necessary arrangements for erecting a
                    stockade as soon as the purchase of land was completed. The stockade should encompass a blockhouse
                    and accommodations for the garrison, including a small store and a small magazine or powder house
                    which should be of brick. The necessary glass, iron, nails, and tools were to be sent from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to a Mr. Bullitt at the Falls, who would be requested to have the whole forwarded up
                    the 
                        Wabash
                     to Lyman or the assistant military agent. On August 5, J. Wingate, Jr. of the War
                    Department sent a list of the articles to be forwarded: bar iron, window glass, nails, four
                    broadaxes, ten common axes, and an assortment of other necessary tools. In 1803 the 
                        United States
                     spent $358.50 for fortifications, of which 
                  
                     66
                            American State Papers, Public Lands, IV, 16–20.
               
                     $200.00 was allotted to Fort 
                        Knox
                    . No such expenses were listed for 1804. Exactly when construction began cannot be
                    determined, but it probably depended upon the receipt of the tools and supplies. On October 1, 1804,
                    warrant number 7842 paid Lyman "for drawing the deeds of a tract of land whereon the fort
                    near 
                        Vincennes
                     is erected, $25.00."67
            
            Fort 
                        Knox
                     had on November 30, 1804, a sizeable working force consisting of one captain, one first
                    lieutenant, one second lieutenant, one ensign, four sergeants, three corporals, three musicians,
                    thirty-nine privates, and one surgeon's mate, a total of fifty-four. Lyman had been told on
                    November 3, 1803, to "make use of any or all of the old buildings at 
                        Vincennes
                     that the materials thereof can be used to advantage in erecting the New
                    Works." Since it was easier to cut new logs on the tract than to transport the old
                    materials from Fort 
                        Knox
                     II up the river, the commandant probably salvaged only minor items. Living quarters
                    being the first requisite, the stockade had apparently not been erected as late as 1809. Governor
                    Harrison wrote the Secretary of War on April 18 of that year that the garrison consisted of a range
                    of open barracks and a blockhouse not connected with any pickets.68
            
            On December 8, 1803, 
                        Dearborn
                     wrote Lyman that he had received the plan of buildings and works near 
                        Vincennes
                    . They were tentatively approved, and terms for paying the men who had worked or should
                    work on the buildings were set forth. Each should be allowed ten cents per day and one gill of extra
                    spirits for each day's labor actually performed, an exact record to be kept for each man
                    constantly employed. Two hundred dollars would be forwarded to the assistant military agent for the
                    purpose of paying the extra allowances.69
            
            Lyman probably remained as commandant of Fort 
                        Knox
                     until his death on March 25, 1806, as there is no record of his transfer to any other
                    unit. His successor is unknown 
                  
                     67
                            American State Papers, Military Affairs (7 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1832–1834), I, 178, 180, 184; U.S., Office of the Secretary of War,
                            Letter Books, II, 47, 49–50.
                  
                     68
                            American State Papers, Military Affairs, I, 176; U.S., Office of the
                            Secretary of War, Letter Books, II, 103; Esarey, Messages and Letters, I,
                            341. When Grouseland, the home of William Henry Harrison, was being repaired in
                            1949–1950, carpenters discovered that the joists which were uncovered had been
                            used elsewhere. Since Harrison was building his house in 1803 and 1804 and since securing
                            timber in Vincennes was difficult, the Governor possibly requisitioned some material from
                            Fort 
                                Knox
                            , then being abandoned. The walls of Grouseland are of stone, said to have been
                            brought down the river from the site of Fort 
                                Knox
                             II, certainly the most advantageous place to get it.
               
                     although it may have been Lieutenant Ambrose Whitlock who had
                    been assistant military agent and who was district paymaster from June 15, 1805. At any rate
                    Harrison reported on April 18, 1809, that Fort Knox was garrisoned by a Lieutenant Whitlock and
                    fourteen or fifteen men, a garrison much reduced from that of 1804.70
            
            Perhaps because the Indian situation appeared more serious as a result of the Treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     of September 30, 1809, reinforcements were ordered to Fort 
                        Knox
                     in 1810. Captain Thornton Posey's company, which had been in 
                        Kentucky
                     awaiting orders, arrived in 
                        Vincennes
                     on July 5 of that year; and Harrison immediately had him commence a blockhouse and
                    lines of pickets at the fort. Captain George Rogers Clark Floyd reached 
                        Vincennes
                     on July 31, and additional troops from Fort 
                        Knox
                     under the command of Lieutenant Jesse Jennings were present at the celebrated interview
                    between Harrison and Tecumseh on August 20, 1810.71
            
            Apparently Floyd and not Posey was commandant at Fort 
                        Knox
                     in late 1810. Each week in December of that year the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Western Sun ran notices of rewards for two deserters signed by Floyd as
                    "captain commanding." Posey probably commanded only a company.72
            
            On October 3 a detachment of 120 men under Captain Joseph Cross arrived and encamped near the fort,
                    "the barracks not being sufficient to receive them." On October 26 the Secretary
                    of War wrote Harrison that it was inexpedient to establish a new post up the 
                        Wabash
                    , one reason being the disturbed state of affairs in 
                        Florida
                    . Posey's company and Cross' detachment should therefore be quartered
                    for the winter near 
                        Vincennes
                    , either in huts or other temporary accomodations as the country afforded; and they
                    should hold themselves in readiness to descend the 
                        Mississippi
                    .73
            
            By the summer of 1811 Posey was in command of Fort 
                        Knox
                    ; and on June 23, 1811, he shot and killed Lieutenant Jesse Jennings as a result of a
                    personal feud. Posey made his escape and seemingly was never brought to trial, but Fort Knox was
                    left without an effective commanding officer. Floyd, stationed in 
                        Louisville
                     at the time, directed Zachary Taylor to proceed to 
                        Vincennes
                     to take command. Taylor 
                  
                     69 U.S., Office of the Secretary of War, Letter Books, II, 127.
                  
                     70 Esarey, Messages and Letters, I, 341.
                  
                     71
                            Ibid., 445, 454, 461.
                  
                     72
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, Dec. 8, 15, 22, 1810.
                  
                     73 Esarey, Messages and Letters, I, 476, 482.
               
                     arrived on July 9 and immediately began to improve
                        conditions.74 Harrison reported to the Secretary of War on August 6,
                    "In the short time he has been a commander he has rendered the Garrison
                    defensible—before his arrival it resembled anything but a place of defence [sic]." The Governor wanted Taylor to continue in command at Fort 
                        Knox
                    , but authorities in 
                        Washington
                     ordered him to 
                        Maryland
                     as a witness in the trial of General James Wilkinson. Since Harrison was mobilizing his
                    forces for the march on 
                        Tippecanoe
                     at this time, Taylor, by his enforced departure, lost his first opportunity to fight
                    Indians in open battle.75
            
            Having decided upon an expedition against the Prophet and his village on the Tippecanoe
                        River, Harrison began his arrangements. He planned to have 1,200 troops under his
                    command, including the Fourth 
                        United States
                     Regiment on its way to 
                        Vincennes
                     from 
                        Kentucky
                     and commanded by Colonel John P. Boyd. Captain Posey's company, then in
                    garrison at Fort 
                        Knox
                    , would furnish not more than forty effectives. Approximately 450 regular troops, from
                    which a small number would be deducted to remain to garrison Fort 
                        Knox
                    , would accompany the Governor.76
            
            The Fourth Regiment was quartered in town, probably in tents, prior to the march; and Colonel Boyd
                    was directed to aid in the preparations for the expedition. Lieutenant Josiah Bacon of the Fourth,
                    who had been injured by a powder explosion and who had not recovered sufficiently to proceed with
                    the troops, was left in charge of Fort 
                        Knox
                    . He and his wife established their residence at the garrison.77
            
            The Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     took place on November 7, 1811. Many casualties resulted, and the task of returning the
                    wounded to Vincennes was formidable. Wagons were used as far as the blockhouse which had been built
                    on the 
                        Vermillion
                    , and the most severely wounded were put on boats. On arrival at 
                        Vincennes
                     the regular troops were quartered at Fort 
                        Knox
                     and placed under the command of Surgeon's Mate Dr. Jacob Kuykendall and a
                    sergeant. A few days later some 
                  
                     74
                            Ibid., 525, 527–28; Holman 
                                Hamilton
                            , Zachary Taylor: Soldier of the Republic (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1941), 37–38.
                  
                     75 Esarey, Messages and Letters, I, 548, 552; 
                                Hamilton
                            , Zachary Taylor, 39.
                  
                     76 Esarey, Messages and Letters, I, 571.
                  
                     77
                            Ibid., 585; Mary Carter (ed.), "Mrs. Lydia B. Bacon's
                            Journal, 1811–1812," Indiana Magazine of History, XI
                            (December, 1944), 380.
               
                     companies were cantoned in 
                        Vincennes
                     where the general hospital had been established.78
            
            A violent controversy raged for some time as to the conduct of the militia during the battle. Colonel
                    Boyd, who was very much disliked for his part in the controversy, left 
                        Vincennes
                     on April 12, 1812. The regiment remained until May 14, when it departed to join General
                    William Hull at 
                        Detroit
                    .79
            
            Vincennes was the base for a minor military engagement during the War of 1812. Colonel William
                    Russell with a company of 
                        United States
                     infantry and another of Eangers was on his way to join Ninian Edwards, governor of 
                        Illinois
                     Territory, when he heard of an Indian attack on Fort Harrison. Russell marched to the
                    aid of the fort which was being successfully defended by Zachary Taylor and a broken company of the
                    Seventh Regiment. Subsequently he continued his march to join Edwards.80
            
            Major General Samuel Hopkins of the 
                        Kentucky
                     militia arrived at 
                        Vincennes
                     with two thousand men on September 24, 1812. His orders were to clear out the Indians
                    along the 
                        Wabash
                     and Illinois rivers, but little was accomplished except for the
                    destruction of some Indian villages due to insubordination of the troops. Many of the Indians had
                    gone to join the British near Maiden.81
            
            In 1813 Fort Knox was moved again, this time back to 
                        Vincennes
                    , perhaps because, as Taylor wrote, it was feared the Indians would make an attack on
                    the town. On March 10, 1813, John Gibson, acting governor, informed Secretary of War William
                    Armstrong that in pursuance of the authority given by former Secretary Eustis he had a considerable
                    part of the necessary timber brought down the river and the men quartered in town. On March 31,
                    however, he reported opposition on the part of certain officers concerning the location of the new
                    fort. In spite of the authorization to Gibson, Lieutenant Thomas H. Richardson had commenced the
                    building "upon the most disadvantageous and useless place adjacent to the whole
                    town." On March 4 Posey reported that upwards of one hundred regulars were engaged in
                    erecting 
                  
                     78 Esarey, Messages and Letters, I, 582, 618, 634.
                  
                     79 Crawford, "Mrs. Lydia B. Bacon's
                            Journal," 60.
                  
                     80
                            
                                Hamilton
                            , Zachary Taylor, 39; Esarey, Messages and
                                Letters, II, 125–28; Esarey, History of Indiana, I,
                            220–22.
                  
                     81 Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 222.
               
                     a fortification in 
                        Vincennes
                     since Fort 
                        Knox
                     [II] had been dismantled.82
            
            During recent decades the exact location of Fort 
                        Knox
                     III has been unknown; indeed, no one remembered this fort at all. In 1956 a letter
                    dated Bruceville, Indiana, December 12, 1878, and signed by Andrew Dunn was found. Dunn wrote:
                        
                        1st. Fort Knox was first built on the Wabash River about 3 miles above 
                                Vincennes
                            . [Lake others of that time he did not know of Fort Knox I.] In the fall of 1812
                            or the spring of 1813, they took it down and rafted it down the river and put it up on the
                            river bank opposite the Catholic Church. 2nd. The fort was about 80 yards from the old
                            Cathedral Church that was there at that time. 3rd. It was still called Fort 
                                Knox
                             the same as before it was moved. 4th. I always understood that when Fort Knox
                            was removed to 
                                Vincennes
                             that it was put up on the same site that the old fort stood on that George
                            Clark captured from the British in February, 1779. 5th. I think the fort was about five rods
                            wide and ten rods long. 6th. It was built of hughed [sic] logs for pickets
                            set in the ground and 12 or 15 feet high. 7th. There was a gate in the uper [sic] end of the fort and I think there was one in the lower end—there
                            was gates in the sides. 8th. I seen the fort in the fall of 1813 & in 1814 &
                            1815. 9th. The fort was there in the spring of 1815 when we moved from 
                                Vincennes
                            . I don't know exactly when it was torn down, but I think it was some
                            time between 1816 and 1820.83
                  
                    
            
            This seems to be authoritative information as to the location of Fort 
                        Knox
                     III. Lieutenant Richardson was probably in command of the third fort since he evidently
                    headed the opposition to Gibson. Ambrose Whitlock was also mentioned, but he was still district
                    paymaster and frequently absent.
            Zachary Taylor came to 
                        Vincennes
                     again in April, 1813, in charge of recruiting in the district. He considered this an
                    impossible task due to the small number of inhabitants and the number of companies of Rangers that
                    were authorized, service in the Rangers being perferred to that in the regular army. Pay for
                    privates was thirty dollars per month in the Rangers as against eight dollars in the regular army;
                    and active duty was negligible, while the army private was obliged to do much hard work as well as
                    drill. Taylor mentioned the building of the fort by about fifty regulars. The work 
                  
                     82 Esarey, Message and Letters, II, 82, 378, 381,
                            406–407.
                  
                     83 Letter presented to Francis Vigo Chapter, Daughters of the American
                            Revolution, by Miss Lucy Jo Hunter, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind. For a sketch of Andrew Dunn's life see 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, Sept. 12, 1873.
               
                     proceeded very slowly, as part of the men fit for duty were
                    employed on command "while a number of those gentleman soldiers or rangers idle away whole
                    months at taverns without performing one single part of a soldier's duty."84
            
            Taylor became commandant of the reerected Fort 
                        Knox
                     during 1813–1814. He brought his family to 
                        Vincennes
                    ; and here his second daughter, Sarah 
                        Knox
                     Taylor, was born, March 6, 1814. The Taylors resided in a cottage owned by Judge
                    Benjamin Parke at present First and Hart streets.85
            
            On May 10, 1815, Judge Parke wrote to Govenor Posey suggesting that the fort at 
                        Vincennes
                     might very well be abandoned but the garrison at Fort Harrison should be maintained.
                    Governor Posey evidently agreed for in the Western Sun, January 6 to February 10,
                    1816, advertisements appeared requesting all holders of public arms to deliver them to Brevet-Major
                    John T. Chunn, commandant at Fort 
                        Knox
                    . The arms were to be boxed and sent to 
                  Newport, Kentucky
               . From
                    February 17 to March 23, the arms were to be delivered to William Johns in 
                        Vincennes
                     who would receipt for them. The garrison had no doubt left for Fort Harrison by that
                    time. The notices were still signed by J. T. Chunn, Brevet-Major, Third Infantry. On February 8,
                    1817, notice was given that Robert Richardson, ordnance storekeeper of the 
                        United States
                     arsenal at 
                  Newport, Kentucky
               , was in 
                        Vincennes
                     to collect arms belonging to the 
                        United States
                     government. Thus the week of February 10, 1816, seems to mark the end of a military
                    garrison at 
                        Vincennes
                    .86
            
            Fort 
                        Knox
                     II, however, has continued to play an important role in Indiana history. In 1815 a
                    traveler, David Thomas, noted that its site could be located only by excavations, remnants of old
                    chimneys, and hewn timber scattered over the ground. Still later the heirs of James Buckley, three
                    daughters and a son, appeared and asked for a retrocession of one hundred acres of land which
                    Toussaint Dubois had sold their father. They also asked for compensation in the amount of eight
                    hundred dollars for the destruction of timber. They presented Dubois' receipt for the full
                    amount of the purchase money and his deed to the 
                        United States
                    , requiring the government to compensate the heirs of Buckley and to keep harmless
                    Dubois and his heirs and assignees. A deposition from 
                  
                     84 Holman 
                                Hamilton
                            , "The 
                                Vincennes
                             of Zachary Taylor," Indiana Magazine of History, XXX
                            (March, 1941), 69–70.
                  
                            85
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     86 Esarey, Messages and Letters, II, 690; 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, Jan. 6, 13, 20, 27, Feb. 3, 10, 17, 24, Mar. 2, 9, 16, 23,
                            1816.
               
                     Robert Buntin, Jr., was submitted which stated that he was
                    commandant at Fort 
                        Knox
                     in the year 1812, that all the timber of any value was cut off and used for building
                    the fort, for firewood, and for rails used to fence ground to raise corn, vegetables, and other food
                    for the officers and soldiers, and that the buildings and timber were rafted down the river and used
                    to build another fort in 1813. A second deposition concerned the value of the timber, said to have
                    been worth about four hundred dollars.87
            
            Finally, on July 14, 1832, Congress passed an act for the relief of the heirs of Jeremiah Buckley,
                    confirming them to their title to one hundred arpents of land and requiring the Secretary of
                    Treasury to pay the heirs the sum of two hundred eighty dollars in compensation for the use of
                    timber and land. The Buckley's in turn must relinquish all claims against Dubois or the 
                        United States
                    . This relinquishment was dated February 27, 1833. The other heirs conveyed their title
                    to John Smith, husband of one of the daughters.88
            
            In 1835 Smith and his wife sold one hundred arpents of land to Henry M. Shaw, an Episcopal clergyman
                    and a colorful character of the time. His widow had possession for some years but finally sold the
                    land to W. B. Purcell in 1894. It was farmed by Purcell and his heirs until 1932, when it was
                    conveyed to the Public Service Company of Indiana, which corporation contemplated the building of a
                    power plant on the site. While the area was farmed, ploughing turned up various military items:
                    buttons, a small cannon ball, a gun barrel, and flints, as well as numerous Indian artifacts.
                    Interest in the site never flagged, and in 1963 the Indiana Historical Society sponsored an
                    excavation to discover, if possible, the exact location of the fort. A considerable part of its
                    outline was discovered that summer, and the next summer gave more information. On March 16, 1964,
                    the Public Service Company deeded to the Indiana Historical Society 41.5 acres of land valued at
                    forty thousand dollars, thus insuring the preservation of the fort site and making possible the
                    erection of a reproduction on the original location.
            
               
                  87 David Thomas, "Travels Through the Western Country in the
                        Summer of 1816," ed. Harlow Lindley, Indiana as Seen by Early
                        Travelers (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1916), 68; American State Papers, Public Lands, IV,
                        16–20.
               
                  88 This information is taken from the official abstract of the land on
                        which Fort 
                            Knox
                         II was located. The Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , holds a xerox copy of this abstract.
            
         
         
         
            Subscriptions to Indiana Magazine of History
            
            The increase in membership dues for the Indiana Historical Society makes necessary an explanatory
                    statement about subscriptions to the Indiana Magazine of History.
            
            Subscriptions to the Magazine remain available at $5.00 annually; and
                    check or money orders should be addressed to The Editor, Indiana Magazine of
                    History, Library 48, Indiana University, 
                  Bloomington, Indiana
                47401. Nevertheless,
                    prospective subscribers are reminded that membership in the Indiana Historical Society automatically
                    includes subscription to the Indiana Magazine of History as well as other
                    publications and benefits. Persons desiring the magazine through such membership should send their
                    checks or money orders to Hubert Hawkins, Executive Secretary, Indiana Historical Society, State
                    Library and Historical Building, 
                  Indianapolis,
                            Indiana
                46204. The accompanying statement from Mr.
                    Hawkins indicates the categories of membership available in the Society. The editor of the Indiana Magazine of History strongly recommends membership in the Indiana
                    Historical Society.
            Donald F. Carmony Editor
         
         
            Membership in Indiana Historical Society
            The expanding program (publications, promotion, markers, school services, etc.) of the Indiana
                    Historical Society and the rising cost of practically everything that the Society buys (paper,
                    printing, postage, and personnel) have made it necessary to raise the dues of the Society. By
                    constitutional amendment and action of the Board of Trustees the following schedule is in effect for
                    1966: 
                  
                     ANNUAL MEMBERSHIP
                     $10.00 per year
                  
                  
                     SUSTAINING MEMBERSHIP
                     $25.00 per year
                  
                  
                     CONTRIBUTING MEMBERSHIP
                     $50.00 per year
                  
                  
                     LIFE MEMBERSHIP
                     $200.00 per year
                  
               
            
            Please bear in mind that the Society is a private nonprofit corporation. The Society does not receive
                    an appropriation from the Indiana General Assembly. It could not do its  job without the support provided by membership dues. The Society has
                    established an enviable reputation among state historical societies for its publication program. The
                    manuscripts scheduled for publication in the next several years will, we believe, strengthen the
                    Society's claim to primacy in this area. You will continue to feel that you, as a member,
                    receive a great deal for every dollar invested in Society membership.
            The observance of the 150th anniversary of statehood in 1966 is placing a major challenge upon the
                    Society's resources. Requests for information, assistance, and materials have increased
                    substantially. We will greatly appreciate your continued support through membership of the
                    Society's work. If you can upgrade your membership in the "Birthday
                    Year," this will be most helpful.
            Hubert H. Hawkins Secretary
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Climax of Populism: The Election of 1896. By Robert F. Durden. ([
                        Lexington
                    ]: University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press, 1965. Pp. xii, 190. Notes, note on sources, index. $5.00.)
            
               Populists, Plungers, and Progressives: A Social History of Stock and Commodity
                        Speculation, 1890–1936. By Cedric B. Cowing. (
                        Princeton
                    , N.J.: 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1965. Pp. vi, 299. Notes, appendix, bibliography, index.
                    $6.50.)
            During the past two decades, Populism, its meaning and impact on national life, has received
                    increasing attention. Professor Durden's brief study, relying primarily upon the papers of 
                        North Carolina
                    's Senator 
                        Marion
                        Butler
                    , the party's national committee chairman, analyzes the problems of Populist
                    leadership. The author concludes that there was no "conspiratorial" manipulation
                    behind Bryan's nomination at the convention—at least he can find no evidence of
                    any scheme in the 
                        Butler
                     manuscripts. In reply to historians who support the position taken by H. D. Lloyd and
                    the Midroad Populists that the silver issue edged out other reforms because place-seeking
                    politicians sacrificed their party and its principles to win public office, Durden insists that
                    logic and ideology dictated Bryan's choice far more than did personal ambition. He tempers
                    this stand, however, by pointing out how important an even minor public office was to a politician
                    in the depression-ridden 1890's.
            Most of the book details the work of the national committee, especially 
                        Butler
                    's problems in dealing with the irrepressible Tom Watson. Watson was a
                    difficult man, and 
                        Butler
                     did yeoman work trying to harness him in tandem with Bryan, while the latter, engaged
                    in one of the liveliest campaigns in American history, tried to win with two vice-presidential
                    candidates. C. Vann Woodward's appraisal of Watson remains essentially unchanged, but
                    Durden does brighten 
                        Butler
                    's image by reviewing their campaign correspondence. Durden also stresses 
                        Butler
                    's role in organizing local fusion tickets.
            The author describes but does not emphasize 
                        Butler
                    's anomalous position after the election, when he seemed to be both the
                    party's defender and liquidator. Fusion had been so complete that preserving
                    Populism's identity proved hopeless, and 
                        Butler
                     became the target for criticism by angry Midroaders as well as fusionists who wanted to
                    become Democrats.
            Durden's work illustrates the need for a biography of 
                        Butler
                    , whose life—he became a Bepublican progressive by 1906—seems to
                    indicate that Populism's link with the Democrats was neither so logically nor ideologically
                    sound as it has appeared. The leaven of Populism had small impact on southern Democrats. Where its
                    heritage persisted, reform was so entrammeled by the states rights orthodoxy that its spokesmen,
                    even today, find a better hearing outside the South. A similar condition appears to hold in the
                    Middle and Mountain West
                     where Republican progressives seemed to reflect the Populist
                    demand for reform far more than the Democrats.
            In this context Cedric B. Cowing's well-written and splendidly research study is significant
                    because it relates the original and ideological responses of reformers to the behavior and practices
                    of the commodity and stock markets. Cowing demonstrates that in most instances the Populist
                    strongholds in the wheat and cotton states shared a distrust for the grain pit and Wall Street. Both
                    felt speculation was morally corrupt and a detriment to the economy, but, whereas the mid-westerners
                    and southwesterners attempted to end speculation by federal intervention, the cotton states balked
                    because of the constitutional issue of states rights.
            Cowing's work is multidimensional: a legislative history of the market as well as an
                    analysis of the groups that favored and opposed federal regulation of it. He catalogues the votes of
                    three generations of anti-speculation politicians, discusses the rhetoric of various factions both
                    in and out of government, and delineates three positions: the agrarian, the financial reformer, and
                    the progressive. The agrarians, their geographic base in the wheat and cotton states, denied that
                    future trading served a useful purpose and favored eliminating the exchanges. The financial
                    reformers, primarily situated in large eastern cities, believing the market to be both essential and
                    beyond government control, argued that only an internal mechanism could reduce the influence of
                    corrupt individuals who upset legitimate dealings. The progressives, whether urban or rural,
                    accepted the economic function of the market but sought to use government commissions to protect the
                    interests of the less knowledgeable and poorly financed investors who were being fleeced by
                    dishonest brokers, controlled investment monies, false representation of values, and market
                    manipulation.
            Unlike other businessmen after the turn of the century, market operators made almost no effort toward
                    self-regulation. That the market so long staved off control is directly attributable to the
                    divisions among agrarians and progressives and the almost continuously prosperous bull market until
                    1929. Cowing explains how each minor market panic produced agrarian sponsored legislative efforts at
                    both the state and federal level as well as progressive proposals for investigations and
                    commissions. Both groups gradually provided an ideological and practical basis for the regulatory
                    measures of the 1930's.
            From fetching title to thoughtful conclusion, Professor Cowing writes with insight and wit. His work
                    is a highly valuable contribution to the literature of the Progressive Era.
            
               
                  
                            San Diego
                         State College Martin Ridge
         
         
            
               The Forgotten Farmers: The Story of Sharecroppers in the New Deal. By David
                    Eugene Conrad. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1965. Pp. 223. Notes, tables, bibliographical note, index. $5.00.)
            Professor Conrad contributes to the abundant literature on New Deal agricultural policy as he
                    analyzes the effect it had on a single class of farmers—the sharecroppers of the Cotton
                    Belt. These "Forgotten  Farmers," numbering
                    nearly two million, "constituted one of the most perplexing problems facing the 
                        United States
                     in the 1930's" (p. 205). This pitiable group of farm families, filled
                    with the real life characters of Steinbeck and 
                        Caldwell
                    , was the debris cast up by the confluence of the onrushing stream of southern economic
                    evolution and the torrent of the Great Depression. The author contends that in the attempt to
                    fashion a program to raise farm income, the Braintrusters either overlooked or disregarded the
                    sharecroppers.
            The cotton programs, Conrad asserts, were designed to favor the landlords and offered motivation for
                    tenant eviction by reducing acreage. Payments went to the landlord who then divided the money with
                    his tenants according to their interest in the crop but kept the lion's share for himself.
                    This procedure, to the dismay of the author, tended to perpetuate the evils of tenancy at the very
                    time there was opportunity for reform. Payments made directly to the tenants, had this been
                    practical, would have given sharecroppers more independence and could have substantially modified
                    planter-tenant relations. It was the author's conclusion, unsupported by an adequate
                    evidential base, that during 1933–1934 "the landlords were desperate enough to
                    accept government aid no matter what strings were attached" (p. 206).
            Conrad relates the well-known story of the friction-ridden Agricultural Adjustment Administration
                    during its first three years. He emphasizes, however, the catalytic role played by the tenancy
                    controversy which ruptured the strained relations between agrarians and liberals (p. 105). Conrad
                    correctly points out that the fundamental difference lay in an ideological conflict between the
                    liberals who envisioned substantial socio-economic reforms and the agrarians who sought a workable
                    program for agriculture. He sympathizes with the liberals (p. 153). Readers may become confused by
                    Conrad's assessment of the liberals' motive in forcing the issue in 1935. Their
                    action, he states, was "well calculated to disrupt the entire cotton program, cause trouble
                    in the plantation areas, and tear AAA apart" (p. 109).
            The author set out to tell the story of the impact of the AAA on southern tenants but, in fact,
                    devoted only three of his ten substantive chapters to the tenants and the remainder to operations in 
                        Washington
                    . The nature of the sources perhaps dictated this. The official files of the AAA
                    provided the bulk of the documentation. The records of the Southern Tenant Farmers' Union
                    gave added perspective to events in one geographical area—northeastern 
                        Arkansas
                    , the trouble spot of southern tenancy during the depression. STFU attempts to get the
                    AAA to halt tenant evictions, the inaction of the AAA, and the violent reaction of 
                        Arkansas
                     planters constitute one of the most interesting parts of the book.
            This is a good and useful book. It could have been much better with a minimum of additional effort.
                    There are two obvious deficiencies in addition to the rather casual organization of chapters. First,
                    it lacks any preface or introduction. One must read well into the book to discover the
                    author's purpose because the opening chapter describing southern tenantry is immediately
                    succeeded by two chapters on the origin of the Agricultural Adjustment Act and the cotton programs
                    under it. Second, it has no bibliography. Good footnotes and a scant  page at the end discussing the manuscript collections consulted are
                    hardly substitutes.
            The merit of Conrad's contribution is indicated, however, by the fact that this book was the
                    1964 award winner of the Agricultural History Society.
            
               Purdue University Floyd J. Fithian
         
         
            
               The Antislavery Vanguard: New Essays on the Abolitionists. Edited by Martin
                    Duberman. (
                        Princeton
                    , N.J.: 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1965. Pp. x, 508. Notes, index. $10.00.)
            The emergence of the present civil rights movement has impelled historians to reexamine the findings
                    of previous antislavery research. New conclusions are being reached by men who are more familiar
                    with sit-ins and mass demonstrations and profess to see in today's reformers the
                    reincarnations of Garrison and Weld, Douglass and Birney. If we accept this view and admit to the
                    purity of heart of contemporary leaders, then similar considerations should be applied to the
                    abolitionists. We should perforce reappraise Sumner and Phillips (for examples) as rational men of
                    principle; the vituperative Garrison will emerge as a benevolent reformer who was right for all the
                    right reasons.
            Most historians agree on the broad outlines of the history of anti-slavery. Differences center about
                    causality and motivation. Many senior historians—who generally declined to contribute to
                    this collection—have been preoccupied with behaviorist and sociological explanations,
                    which argue Duberman, et. al., is at the expense of a more direct and
                    rationalistic approach. The editor's introduction gives perspective to this view with a
                    discussion of objectivity and presentism. Noting that some of his essayists wrote "explicit
                    defenses" of their subject, he yet reiterates the obligation of each generation to
                    reevaluate the relevant past. He concludes that the sympathy of holders of the "new
                    view" for civil rights is necessary and proper and in no way compromises the writing of
                    antislavery history.
            In assembling this laudable group of seventeen essays, Duberman has captured the essence of the new
                    scholarship. Larry Gara attempts to ascertain who was and was not an abolitionist and decides that
                    the evolutionary diversity of the movement makes this a highly relative question. Fawn M. Brodie
                    ponders the perennial unpopularity of the abolitionist and concludes that it stems largely from
                    "anxiety over contemporary racial problems …" (p. 67). Leon F. Litwack
                    emphasizes the central contention of his associates, that "the entire question of racial
                    equality was at issue, not merely the elimination of chattel slavery's (pp.
                    154–55). James M. McPherson ably reviews the last century's
                    "scientific" arguments against racial equality and demonstrates their rejection by
                    the abolitionists. Silvan S. Tomkins presents a challenging theory of social commitment to explain
                    the activities of four leading abolitionists with the supposition that it is generally applicable.
                    In his summary of Canadian abolitionism, Robin W. Winks records parallels and contrasts between the
                    two North American anti-slavery movements.
            
            Editor Duberman and Robert F. Durden separately examine the attitudes of the North toward slavery and
                    the Negro. Durden analyzes the early Republican party's inconsistent dislike of
                    slaveholders, slavery, and Negroes. Duberman demonstrates the failure of abolitionists to direct
                    northern public opinion, showing that the radical solution—such as abolitionism
                    presented—is usually rejected in this land of moderation. Instead,
                    "non-extension" was accepted by most as the sensible path which would presumably
                    result in the "natural" death of slavery in the Old South. Duberman also marshalls
                    evidence in defense of abolitionist leadership by demonstrating the stability and good sense shown
                    by most abolitionists. His rationalist point of view precludes behaviorist interpretations.
            Howard Zinn contributes the final essay, a zestful attack on past historical writings on
                    abolitionism. His muscular defenses of the neccessity of "extremism," personal
                    involvement, and emotionalism—which "intensifies the forms of already existent
                    behavior" (p. 426)—are quite provocative.
            By emphasizing the relevance of the crusade against slavery to the present crusade for civil liberty,
                    these essays will surely invoke endorsement and rebuttal from other historians. If a dialogue
                    results, centered on this historical relationship, then this collection will have served its avowed
                    purpose.
            
               Purdue University, Calumet Campus Norman L. Trusty
         
         
            
               The Polities of Reconstruction, 1863–1867. By David Donald. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1965. Pp. xviii, 105. Notes, tables, charts, appendices.
                    $4.00.)
            When so distinguished a student of Reconstruction as Professor Donald publishes even a small book on
                    the subject, any serious student in the field will be eager to discover its contents. The present
                    volume consists of the three lectures delivered in the annual series of Walter Lynwood Fleming
                    Lectures in Southern History at 
                        Louisiana
                     State University. This fact alone places the study in good company, for a long list of
                    outstanding contributors to an understanding of Southern history has formerly appeared as Fleming
                    lecturers. These essays are suggestive, informative, and quite possibly provocative of more detailed
                    investigation, although no pretensions are made to sweeping or revolutionary alterations of the
                    Reconstruction account.
            The central theme is that Radicals and Moderates in the Republican contingent in Congress between
                    1863 and 1867 probably cannot be distinguished from each other by sets of characteristics other than
                    political ones. It is suggested that they were much more alike than would be supposed from accounts
                    emphasizing their contests in Congress. The proposition is that all of the Republicans would very
                    probably have agreed on a somewhat Radical position regarding Reconstruction had they been free to
                    vote as they pleased. The difference between Radicals and Moderates is attributed largely to their
                    presumed desire to be reelected and hence to their calculations concerning how much Radicalism their
                    constituents could be persuaded to swallow. Closely contested 
                    congressional districts tended to send congressmen who had to be Moderates in order not to lose
                    their margins of victory, while safe Republican districts could release their representatives from
                    such constraint so that they could vote their true convictions.
            Appendices conveniently provide the roll-call tabulations used to distinguish Radicals from Moderates
                    or from other segments of the House of Representatives; similar roll-call data for ten key votes on
                    Reconstruction measures in 1866–1867 leading to the passage of the Military
                    Reconstruction Act of March 1867; and the percentages of the popular vote received by each
                    Republican congressman in the three elections of the period under study. The reader may, therefore,
                    pursue the author's path of analysis with the raw materials he employed.
            After laying this groundwork for estimating the practical difference between Republican factions in
                    the House, the author traces the progress of the Congressional Reconstruction plan through Congress
                    by employing a detailed and well-illustrated image of a pendulum, passing through several swings
                    before coming to rest on the precise legislation accepted by both House and Senate in March of 1867.
                    This he describes as the simple arithmetic of politics.
            It is freely admitted that no gross manipulation of the data produced a convincing behavioral-science
                    type proof of the general thesis and that correlation between Radicalism and safeness of seat is
                    about zero for the House taken as a whole. But by scrutinizing the local distinctions between states
                    and even districts, the author offers further evidence in support of his
                    thesis—employing, one might add, a fairly familiar type of traditional historical method.
            Even if a reader should find the approach or the conclusions limited or questionable, he will find
                    all of the cards on the table, face up. And it is difficult to read anything from David
                    Donald's pen without profiting from his perceptiveness, his adroitness in eluding
                    doctrinaire self-shackling, and above all his clarity and grace in presentation.
            
               University of 
                            Alabama
                        
                Thomas B. Alexander
         
         
            
               After Slavery: The Negro in 
                            South Carolina
                         During Reconstruction, 1861–1877. By Joel Williamson.
                        (Chapel Hill: The University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1965. Pp. ix, 442. Notes, bibliography, index. $7.50.)
            Many of the individual state studies of Reconstruction derive from the Dunning school, although there
                    have been important revisionist works, especially Francis 
                        Butler
                     Simkins' and Robert H. Woody's 
                  
                            South Carolina
                         During Reconstruction. Professor Williamson's work is, as he admits
                    in his preface, a revision of that "classic in revisionism"; but it is more than
                    simply that. It displays both the strengths and weaknesses of the revisionist approach. Williamson
                    believes that "it is possible that we have passed onto a new plateau … where
                    slavery and Reconstruction fall beneath the horizon … and perspective rises a measure
                    above personal passion" (p. vii). Thus the contemporary historian of Reconstruction
                    approaches his materials "with new viewpoints." He asks "new
                    questions" and ceases "to ask all of the old."
            
            Based on exhaustive research in the extensive manuscript sources—many of which had not
                    been fully utilized before—Williamson's book presents a detailed and complete
                    account of the role of the Negro in 
                        South Carolina
                     during Reconstruction. Indeed, in After Slavery Williamson has given
                    us a thorough reworking of the traditional story of the Negro in the Reconstruction history of 
                        South Carolina
                    . He presents massive factual evidence and persuasive arguments to support his
                    interpretation of the 
                        South Carolina
                     Negro as an intelligent, responsible voter (p. 341) and an effective, sensible
                    politician (pp. 345, 378), not simply an illiterate field hand raised by circumstances to political
                    prominence and power (p. 376). Moreover, Williamson produces considerable information to indicate
                    that the corruption of the radical government was not nearly so extravagant as many redeemers
                    maintained (p. 417). He also credits the Republicans with much of the reform work that effectively
                    put a stop to the worst corruption before the redeemers came to power (p. 397) and condemns the
                    redeemers for their failure to deal "viciously" with the corruptionists (p. 416).
            Not all of this is by any means new; but much of it tends to suggest that the experiences of the
                    Negro in 
                        South Carolina
                     during Reconstruction deviated, in many respects, from the traditional view of the role
                    of the Negro in the Reconstruction South. In at least one particular, however, Williamson seems to
                    press for a conclusion that is more, perhaps, than is warranted. He challenges the widespread notion
                    that the separation of the races and the establishment of a rigid code of segregation was a
                    development of the late nineteenth century. Williamson feels that the separation of the races
                    "was the most revolutionary change in relations between the whites and Negroes in 
                        South Carolina
                     during Reconstruction" (p. 274). He also asserts that "well before
                    the end of Reconstruction, this mental pattern was fixed; the heartland of racial exclusiveness
                    remained inviolate; and 
                        South Carolina
                     had become, in reality, two communities—one white and the other
                    Negro" (p. 299). While this argument is not without merit and is supported by numerous
                    examples which Williamson cites, it seemingly undervalues the rather obvious fact that
                    Reconstruction was a period of fluidity in race relations and that many elements, old as well as
                    new, were involved in the determination of the emerging pattern of race relations. One can doubt
                    that by the end of Reconstruction conditions were so settled, even in 
                        South Carolina
                    , as to produce two exclusive societies, one white and one black.
            Without question there is much that is substantial and stimulating in this solidly researched,
                    carefully written work. Not least among its virtues is its comprehensiveness and its integration of
                    the Negro into the general story of Reconstruction in 
                        South Carolina
                    . The period of Reconstruction remains one that is much debated among historians. There
                    are still wide areas of disagreement. Williamson has enriched the quality of this debate and has
                    increased the measure of our understanding not only of the 
                        South Carolina
                     Negro during Reconstruction; but, in many ways, of most Reconstruction developments.
            
               
                  
                            Colorado
                         State University John A. Jenkins
         
         
         
            
               Jim Crow's Defense: Anti-Negro Thought in America,
                    1900–1930. By I. A. Newby. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State Univeristy Press, 1965. Pp. xv, 230. Notes, bibliography, index.
                    $6.60.)
            I. A. Newby, who is a native of 
                        Georgia
                     with a Ph.D. degree from the University of 
                        California
                    , has written a good book, which is both a contribution to intellectual history and a
                    continuation of C. Vann Woodward's Strange Career of Jim Crow. In it he
                    explores anti-Negro thought, which he defines as "specifically, the body of ideas revolving
                    around belief in the Negro's innate racial inferiority" (p. viii), from 1900 to
                    1930. The first half of the book deals with the contributions which scientists, social scientists,
                    historians, novelists, and clergymen, wittingly or unwittingly, made to the development of this
                    thought. Perhaps the thing about the book which strikes the present-day reader most forcibly is the
                    volume of the racist literature and the large number of eminent scholars and public men who
                    subscribed to and perpetuated racist doctrines—usually not out of malice but simply
                    because they accepted certain assumptions without question.
            Science, reinforced by the social scientists, was the chief bulwark of racism. An enormous amount of
                    literature by eugenists, ethnologists, anthropologists, paleontologists, psychologists, and
                    sociologists substantiated popular beliefs that Negroes were innately inferior. Scientists relied
                    heavily upon the race-climate hypothesis to prove that evolution was the source of racial
                    inequality. Social scientists interpreted the results of "intelligence" tests as
                    evidence of innate racial inferiority. Respectable scholars accepted prevailing notions of
                    "biological law" and "racial instincts." Even a humanitarian
                    like Frank Lester Ward declared that Negro men raped white women because of the "biological
                    imperative" to improve their offspring. Nearly all of the leading American
                    historians—including Rhodes, Burgess, Dunning, Fleming, Phillips, and
                    Bowers—explicitly believed in the inferiority of Negroes. Reconstruction was interpreted
                    as a riot of "Africanism," and the Ku Klux Elan was defended. But historians were
                    less widely read and less influential than novelists. A host of literary figures ranging from Thomas
                    Nelson Page to Thomas Dixon pictured slavery as a benevolent institution and emancipation and its
                    aftermath as disasters.
            Much of the defense of slavery had been religious, and clergymen in the early years of the twentieth
                    century revived these arguments. A northern-born Episcopal bishop, residing in 
                        Arkansas
                    , in the book, The Crucial Race Question, sought to prove that Negroes
                    were inherently bestial and degenerate and that race prejudice was "God implanted"
                    (p. 88). In short, says Newby, "The Negro then was virtually friendless. Condemned by
                    science to a subordinate place in nature and disparaged by history for his alleged failure to
                    contribute anything to man's civilization, he now found himself abandoned, ignored, or
                    patronized by Christianity and the nation's religious community" (p. 109).
            In the second half of the book the author shows how the Vardamans and the Tillmans and other
                    extremists vulgarized and applied the racial theories of the intellectuals to defend segregation and
                    disfranchisement and other schemes for "solving" the race problem. Newby indicates
                    that by the middle of the 1920's changes were underway which eventually  eroded much anti-Negro thought. But in a final chapter on the
                    persistence of racism he deals briefly with the revival of extreme anti-Negro thought in the guise
                    of science which has developed as a reaction to the Supreme Court school decision of 1954 and the
                    current civil rights struggle. The "scientific" racism of Carleton 
                        Putnam
                     is a return to the kind of science which was prevalent in the early years of the
                    century.
            
               
                  
                            Butler
                         University Emma Lou Thornbrough
         
         
            
               The Theater in Colonial America. By Hugh F. Rankin. (Chapel
                    Hill: The University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1965. Pp. xiii, 239. Illustrations, notes, index. $6.00.)
            Struggle, as Hugh P. Rankin concludes, is perhaps the best word to describe a marked and pervasive
                    quality in the records of theatrical activity in colonial America. The managers of theatre companies
                    and actors, sometimes with shrewd tact and diplomacy, sometimes by means of subterfuge or downright
                    deceit, struggled first of all to entice appreciative audiences, so that theatre in America might
                    survive. Sometimes managers and players struggled with stubborn adherents of various religious sects
                    or with civil authorities merely to get permission to build a theatre and to present theatrical
                    entertainment. Rankin's fascinating and carefully documented account of the effort and
                    circumstance involved in planting a seedling theatre in American soil offers substantial new
                    information and insight about the activities of both the players and their antagonists.
            In his diligent search for new knowledge about colonial theatre, the author first investigates and
                    succinctly recounts the existing annals of early theatrical activity in America. He then considers
                    in particular the years from 1716, when the building of the first theatre in English America was
                    started at 
                  Williamsburg, Virginia
               , to 1774, when the Continental Congress passed a
                    resolution which discountenanced and discouraged theatrical activities. Chief attention is given to
                    the management policies, the personnel, the repertoire, and the artistic qualities of various
                    playing groups. Thus, with increased fullness of information and sometimes with new perspective, the
                    reader learns about the tours and the theatrical experiences of the early Murray-Kean Company, the
                    Hallam Company, and David Douglass' Company, first known as a "Company of
                    Comedians from 
                        London
                    ," later as the "New American Company." Such companies, and a
                    few lesser groups, are carefully observed and described as they performed in such cities as
                            
                  Williamsburg, Charleston, Annapolis, Philadelphia
               , and 
                        New York
                    . Readers are also offered fresh information about theatrical activities in some small
                    towns visited by various companies.
            In addition to his amplified account of the touring activities of theatre companies, the author gives
                    us new information about the architectural and productional features of some early theatre
                    buildings, as well as some vivid descriptions and evaluations of the qualities of certain actors.
                    Perhaps most important of all, this chronicle of the  colonial
                    theatre in America bespeaks the interests and intentions of a social historian. This means that
                    readers are sometimes given a chance to observe the colonial theatre as a cultural manifestation,
                    embroiled with social or political turbulences of eighteenth-century American society or forced to
                    contend with certain intellectual and religious forces of the time. Perhaps a significant indication
                    of the contrasting cultural interests espoused by citizens in the northern and southern sections of
                    colonial society was the warm welcome and support given to the actors in 
                  Williamsburg, Charleston
               , and 
                        Annapolis
                    .
            This excellent study is based on scrupulous research, contains much fresh material about its subject,
                    and is written in a clear, amiable style. It should prove of particular interest and value to
                    students of American theatre and drama but also can be recommended to observers of American cultural
                    history.
            
               Indiana University David S. Hawes
         
         
            
               The Lamp of Experience: Whig History and the Intellectual Origins of the American
                        Revolution. By H. Trevor Colbourn. (Chapel Hill: The University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, for the Institute of Early American History and Culture, 1965. Pp. viii, 247.
                    Notes, appendices, index. $7.50.)
            Although the intellectual history of the American Revolution has long received study, in the last few
                    years there has been renewed and fresh interest in it. In the twentieth century Carl Becker probably
                    contributed the most perceptive study of American political ideas of the Revolution in his The Declaration of Independence. Becker's work has been revised to some
                    extent by Edmund S. Morgan, most notably in The Stamp Act Crisis.
                    Becker's book placed American thought in the long tradition of natural rights;
                    Morgan's focused more closely on the American context. Recently another sort of
                    study—the outstanding example is Caroline Robbins The Eighteenth-Century
                        Commonwealthman—has offered yet another approach to American revolutionary
                    ideas. The Eighteenth-Century Commonwealthman demonstrated the persistence of a
                    seventeenth century revolutionary tradition, as expounded and amplified by the "Real
                    Whigs." Colbourn has chosen to follow up this second approach and has extended and
                    amplified suggestions made in Caroline Robbins' study. He has also done much more.
            In the early portions of his book Colbourn carefully reconstructs colonial tastes in
                    history—Americans read ancient and medieval history though they favored English above all
                    other—and shows how indebted Revolutionary thought was to the colonials' reading
                    of history. This must have been a difficult job demanding patience and energy, and the author has
                    done it well. Colbourn also tells how the early eighteenth-century colonials read their books, what
                    they found in them, and how they interpreted them. Here the evidence is flimsy, and readers may at
                    first be skeptical of Colbourn's reconstruction of colonial reactions. But to read further
                    is to become convinced by his views. The author's research has been so thorough, his
                    judgment so balanced,  and his craftmanship so excellent that one
                    is carried by his arguments. A good historian must say what he thinks after he has considered all
                    the evidence: Colbourn seems to be a good historian, and he has exhausted the sources.
            In the major part of this study, which shows the uses to which such Americans as John Adams, John
                    Dickinson, James Wilson, Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                    , Daniel Dulany, Richard Bland, George Mason, and Thomas Jefferson put history, it
                    becomes clear that American ideas were not derived from the past. Bather the past was used
                    selectively to illustrate American contentions about political principle and rights.
                    Americans' perceptions about their politics probably developed from their understanding of
                    their own experience. But to demonstrate the validity of their claims of rights—and
                    eventually their claim to independence—Americans invoked the English revolutionary past.
                    The English tradition, in turn, was seen in the context of nature. From this perspective the
                    American presented a series of arguments which proved unassailable.
            Like any good book this one raises many questions it cannot follow up. It is hoped that Colbourn will
                    some day turn to the view in America that eighteenth century 
                        England
                     was corrupt. He has chosen many quotations which suggest that American leaders detested
                    English corruption and feared that free institutions contained imperfections that would inevitably
                    lead to degeneration. In any case, one is grateful for this balanced and clear headed book.
            
               University of 
                     California,
                                Berkeley
                  
                Robert
                Middlekauff
         
         
            
               The University of 
                            Kentucky
                        : The Maturing Years. By Charles Gano Talbert. (
                        Lexington
                    : University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press, 1965. Pp. 208. Illustrations, notes, index. $5.00.)
            Charles Gano Talbert's The University of 
                            Kentucky
                        : The Maturing Years is yet another institutional study recording a
                    college's effort to transform itself from an undistinguished small institution to a
                    university meriting national or at least regional recognition. Talbert's subtitle,
                    "The Maturing Years," refers to the period 1911 to 1956; and the book is intended
                    to supplement James F. Hopkins' The University of 
                            Kentucky
                        : Origins and Early Years which concluded with the retirement of President
                    James K. Patterson in 1911 and Ezra L. Gillis's booklet, The University of 
                            Kentucky
                        : Its History and Development, 1862–1955. Talbert, who is associate
                    professor of history at Northern Community College, 
                        Covington
                    , and who received a Ph.D. in history from the University of 
                        Kentucky
                    , emphasizes administrative decisions, building programs, faculty appointments, and to a
                    lesser extent, student activities.
            Talbert has avoided one obvious pitfall of the institutional historian, reporting only those events
                    which do not embarrass the institution. One finds in Talbert's history accounts of
                    President Henry Sites Barker's deficiencies and difficulties and the bribery of several 
                        Kentucky
                     basketball players. The emphasis of the work, however, is upon 
                        Kentucky
                    's achievements.
            
            The Talbert study will be of interest chiefly to Kentuckians concerned with the development of their
                    state university. In this respect it is regrettably typical of many instutional histories, for its
                    concerns are distressingly parochial. One learns of the erection of new barns on the campus but
                    little of the developments affecting colleges and universities throughout the country during the
                    same period. No doubt one explanation is Talbert's nearly exclusive reliance, as indicated
                    by footnotes, upon 
                        Kentucky
                     archives and newspapers in preparing this study. He writes of the division between
                    retiring President Patterson and President Barker during the early years of this century concerning
                    vocational and classical curricula, but this dispute is not analyzed in the context of the
                    widespread controversy throughout the 
                        United States
                     on the same issue at that time. The concept of service to the state in Chapter III,
                    "Serving the Commonwealth," is developed without reference to Charles 
                        Van
                     Hise's "
                        Wisconsin
                     Idea," which established the principle of service among state universities.
                    Instead Clark Kerr's vastly different "multiversity" notion is cited as a
                    latter day equivalent of 
                        Kentucky
                    's earlier concern with service. A later discussion of economy in education (p.
                    34) omits reference to the popularity of Taylorism among educators of that period. Finally, the
                    report of litigation leading to the admission of Negroes to the university does not include any
                    report of comparable legal activity in other border states, particularly 
                        Texas
                     and 
                        Oklahoma
                    , at the same time.
            Talbert occasionally manages to whet the curiosity of his reader but repeatedly fails to satisfy him.
                    He recounts in one paragraph (p. 102) the appointment of German Jewish professors in the
                    mid-nineteen thirties, assisted by the Emergency Committee in Aid of Displaced German Scholars and
                    the Rockefeller Foundation; but he does not assess their influence at 
                        Kentucky
                    . His evaluation of Frank L. McVey, whose presidency lasted from 1917 to 1941, is
                    limited to one paragraph (p. 132). Another question which Talbert skirts is 
                        Kentucky
                    's apparent ambivalence in identifying itself with the titans of state
                    universities to the north, such as 
                  Wisconsin,
                            Illinois, Indiana
               , and 
                        Ohio
                     (p. 61) or with the small, regionally-oriented ones to the South. Talbert notes but
                    does not amplify President McVey's effort to establish a repository for infrequently-used
                    library books in 
                        Chicago
                     (p. 127), but the author does not define the relationship of this project to the
                    Midwest Inter-Library Center. In short, Talbert's work relies heavily on recapitulating
                    events and decisions without interpreting them.
            Hoosier readers of Talbert's book may be interested in following the 
                        Kentucky
                     career of the university's first Rhodes Scholar, Elvis J. Stahr, jr., who is
                    now president of Indiana University. After graduation from 
                        Kentucky
                    , Stahr returned to 
                        Lexington
                     twelve years later in 1947 as Dean of the College of Law and subsequently as Provost.
            
               Barnard College, 
                            Columbia
                         University Patricia Albjerg Graham
         
         
         
            
               The President Wore Spate: A Biography of Glenn Frank. By Lawrence H. Larsen. (
                        Madison
                    : The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1965. Pp. ix, 198. Illustrations, notes, sources, index. $4.50.)
            This addition to the growing body of studies of higher education by trained historians reflects a
                    variety of forces in American life in the first third of this century. The volume also contains
                    useful lessons for governing boards charged with relating the academic community to the general
                    citizenry through the selection of university presidents. Glenn Frank, a self-made man who deserted
                    a rural, evangelistic background, found fulfillment in eastern cities and on the campuses of
                    Northwestern and 
                        Wisconsin
                     universities. As a journalist and supremely popular speaker he responded to the
                    economic and international upheavals of the era of the First World War. As editor of Century Magazine he had to cope with changing financial and literary conditions which
                    affected the fortunes of national periodicals.
            As president of the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , Glenn Frank was caught up in the intensely competitive search for competent leaders of
                    educational enterprises and the exciting but frustrating innovations such as the Experimental
                    College. His sudden decline from popularity demonstrated that Wisconsin's powerful faculty
                    and deans had accorded their lay executive only grudging acceptance from the start. In the end,
                    Larsen holds, the problems brought by the depression exposed the president's previously
                    concealed weaknesses.
            Larsen has skillfully traced the main lines of Frank's career chronologically but with
                    proper emphasis on the 
                        Wisconsin
                     years. He conveys particularly well the dramatic climax in the Regents'
                    hearing in January, 1937, and concludes with a chapter on the subject's return to
                    journalism and his ultimate quest for the Republican nomination for the 
                        United States
                     Senate in 1940.
            This study rests to an impressive extent on correspondence and interviews, supplemented by
                    Frank's numerous writings and newspaper accounts. Larsen's reiteration of the many
                    "facets" of Frank's activities (pp. vii, 6, 88) suggests that some
                    interpretations lay beyond precise documentation. We read that "intuitively Frank had
                    sought to insure himself against the day when crisis threatened" (p. 104) and, in relation
                    to John Chappie's attacks on the university in the 1930's, that "it was
                    probably no coincidence that almost two decades later a 
                        United States
                     Senator from 
                        Wisconsin
                     hurled somewhat similar charges of communist infiltration at the 
                        United States
                     Department of State" (p. 117). Larsen's indictment of Frank as
                    shallow, a judgment apparently shared by much of the 
                        Wisconsin
                     faculty, is blurred by revelation of Frank's support of internationalism in
                    the interwar years, his disassociation from the racist Lothrop Stoddard "from principle
                    rather than expediency" (p. 33), and his willingness to instigate if not to support
                    consistently Meikeljohn's Experimental College.
            A legible text with excellent illustrations is marred by the use of tiny reference numbers and the
                    placement of source notes in the back of the book without running chapter identifications.
                    Nevertheless, readers will find this brief but searching biography an instructive guide  to personal characteristics which could earn for one man a place in the
                    Establishment in an earlier generation and a forecast of the greater stresses that may well
                    accompany the present endeavor to provide universal higher education.
            
               
                  
                            Wisconsin
                         State University, La Crosse Stanley R. Rolnick
         
         
            
               The Intemperate Professor and Other Cultural Splenetics. By Russell Kirk. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1965. Pp. xii, 163. Notes. $5.00.)
            This book consists of thirteen essays and "A Mordant Last Word," arranged in four
                    parts setting forth the author's view of the relation to culture of (1) colleges, (2)
                    religion and morals, (3) wealth, and (4) beauty and community. The essays depict the degradation of
                    culture in the West.
            This degradation is seen through the gloom of a bitter nostalgia which leads the author to advocate
                    the "restoration" of an educational system and a society that never existed. There
                    was good in the centuries before the Industrial Revolution, but Kirk dwells on it almost to the
                    exclusion of the abundant evil. He does not mention the plague, the Inquisition, the serfdom, or the
                    rigid conformity. He ignores the short, brutal, nasty life of the many in low places; and if he
                    notes the arrogant pride of the few in high places, he seems almost to approve of it. One must agree
                    that much evil has accompanied the Industrial Revolution and the development of democracy. But one
                    need not therefore condemn these movements or ignore the good that has come with them. The growth of
                    individual freedom and of consideration for others should not be left out of the account. Nor is the
                    amelioration of life for the physically and mentally afflicted, the child, and the aged valueless.
            It is clear that the author's values are not those of most Westerners: leaders or followers,
                    intemperate professors or temperate ones. He condemns humanitarianism (p. 113) and castigates both
                    private foundations and government for subsidizing "utilitarian" rather than
                    "humane" ventures ("Massive Subsidies and Academic Freedom"). He tells of a
                    father, a "drunken brute," who often "thrashed his daugter to fill her
                    with a holy terror." But, says Kirk, "Her upbringing, bad though it was, may have
                    been better than the formative years of the average American child nowadays,
                    ‘permissively’ reared." The father had painted on his silo roof,
                    "The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom" (pp. 73–74). Kirk
                    further declares, "To demand for mankind ‘freedom from fear,’ as
                    politically attainable, was a silly piece of demagogic sophistry" (p. 74).
                    "Freedom from fear, if I read St. John aright, is one of the planks in the platform of the
                    Antichrist" (p. 80).
            The opening sentences in the last essay might well have led the entire text: "This is my
                    case: there ought to be inequality of condition in the world. For without inequality, there is no
                    class; without class, no manners and no beauty: and then a people sink into public and private
                    ugliness" (p. 152).
            
            The book is, indeed, made up of "cultural splenetics." Yet, incredible as it may
                    seem, the term "intemperate professor" is not meant to apply to the author but to
                    his opponents in the debate. Perhaps it should be applied to both sides. The
                    "Academy" never was temperate, and to assert that it was (p. 6) is to ignore much
                    of its history. In the first part, Kirk asserts his belief that academic freedom protects the
                    radical professor more than it protects the conservative one. This reviewer does not believe that
                    such is or should be the case. Both, if competent, should be secure. It seems worth noting that the
                    book was published by the press of a state university, the kind of institution of higher learning
                    that its author condemns most stridently.
            
               Duke University William H. Cartwright
         
         
            
               Landmarks of 
                            Tennessee
                         History. Edited by William T. Alderson and Robert M. McBride. (
                        Nashville
                    : 
                        Tennessee
                     Historical Society and 
                        Tennessee
                     Historical Commission, 1965. Pp. x, 321. Illustrations, notes. $4.00.)
            
               
                        Tennessee
                     has numerous historic sites which annually attract many visitors. This book presents a
                    history of fifteen of these sites. In its preface the editors indicate that a companion volume
                    dealing with the remaining sites may be published several years hence.
            Certainly the publication of this book represents a commendable cooperation between the 
                        Tennessee
                     Historical Commission and the 
                        Tennessee
                     Historical Society. For the past several years each issue of the 
                  
                            Tennessee
                         Historical Quarterly, a publication of the latter organization, has contained
                    an article on a historical landmark. In addition to telling how a particular site was acquired and
                    restored, each article gives appropriate historical and biographical data. Fifteen of these articles
                    comprise this volume, which has been published jointly by the two historical organizations named
                    above.
            While the title suggests a book designed primarily for popular consumption, the content contains
                    information for the academician as well. Most of the articles are liberally footnoted giving ample
                    indication of scholarly research. Some of the articles contain data which have been garnered from
                    collections of private letters and from archival sources not readily available to the average
                    person. They not only give the work an aura of respectability but set it apart from the brochures
                    which inaccurately present the history of so many of our historic sites today.
            Numerous illustrations make the book especially attractive. In addition to sixty black and white
                    photographs there are fifteen artist's sketches which accompanied the articles when they
                    originally appeared in the 
                  
                            Tennessee
                         Historical Quarterly. The fact that the high cost of colored photographs
                    probably precluded their use does not prevent one from speculating upon the added attractiveness of
                    such a medium.
            Like most collections of articles this volume suffers from the un-evenness that inevitably
                    accompanies diverse literary styles. Even more disconcerting is the arrangement of the series in
                    alphabetical order. Having determined the specific historic sites to be presented in this  as well as its projected companion volume, the editors might have used
                    a chronological approach to greater advantage. Not only would this method have supplied a desirable
                    degree of continuity and cohesiveness to the various articles, but also it would have taken
                    cognizance of the fact that many readers who are not too well acquainted with the history of 
                        Tennessee
                     need some logical form of orientation.
            Although the book contains a table of contents, it is not sufficiently detailed to compensate for the
                    lack of an index. The listing of proper names in an index would have been most helpful to the casual
                    reader. Perhaps the editors felt that the illustrated map on the inside covers obviated the
                    necessity for such a tool.
            Despite these minor criticisms Landmarks of 
                            Tennessee
                         History represents a worthwhile contribution to historical literature. Anyone
                    contemplating a tour of the Volunteer State should find his visit greatly enhanced by a perusal of
                    this volume.
            
               Ball State University Richard H. Caldemeyer
         
         
            
               The American Automobile: A Brief History. By John B. Rae. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1965. Pp. xiv, 265. Illustrations, tables, maps, suggested reading, index.
                    $5.95.)
            The goal of the 
                        Chicago
                     History of American Civilization series is to provide brief but authoritative studies
                    of significant epochs and important topics in American history. Surely the story of the automobile
                    deserved a place in the series, and now, in Professor Rae, it has found a worthy chronicler.
                    Although less interpretative than other volumes in the same series, this one is thoughtfully
                    structured, well-balanced, concisely written, and highly readable. It is in short, the best one
                    volume history of the automotive industry available and a valuable addition to the 
                        Chicago
                     series.
            The words automotive industry, however, deserve to be emphasized. Connoisseurs of
                    vintage cars, racing enthusiasts, engineers, stylists, and automotive buffs in general will probably
                    find little here to interest them. Rae, who is professor of economic history at Harvey Mudd College,
                    is concerned with the business enterprise which grew up around the automobile. His book is primarily
                    the story of how and why the horseless carriage became the largest manufacturing industry in the
                    nation.
            In many ways this book is a sequel to the author's American Automobile
                        Manufacturers (
                        Philadelphia
                    , 1959), which traced the growth of the industry from its beginning to the
                    mid-1930's. The first one hundred twenty pages are a skillful condensation of the most
                    significant portions of the earlier book, the remaining one hundred fifteen pages a model survey of
                    the industry since the New Deal. Because the industry had solved most of its technological,
                    production, and distribution problems by the 1930's, there is less emphasis on these topics
                    in the latter half of the book and more emphasis upon the automobile's influence in
                    American life. The chapters on the rise of industrial unionism present  an exemplary synthesis of information available only in much longer,
                    more detailed, and less readable works. The discussion of federal assistance to highway construction
                    programs brings together in very brief fashion all the major pieces of federal legislation since
                    1916.
            According to the author the history of the automotive industry is divided into roughly three periods.
                    The first, from 1893 to 1921, was one of experimentation and growing sophistication in the garage,
                    and, despite Ford's dominance after 1915, one of reasonably healthy competition in the
                    marketplace. The major problems were those of technology and production; they were solved by the
                    invention of the electric starter which assured the triumph of the gasoline engine over its
                    competitors and the perfection of the assembly line which ushered in the age of mass production. The
                    second period, from 1921 to 1945, witnessed the maturing of the industry. The depression of
                    1920–1921 hit the leaders hard and forced many of the newer and smaller companies out of
                    the business. After the shake-up General Motors emerged stronger than ever, Chrysler Corporation
                    appeared as a strong contender, and the Ford Motor Company began its gradual decline. By 1929 the
                    trend toward oligopoly was evident; the great depression and World War II only strengthened the
                    tendency. Within the industry planned obsolescence was introduced to combat the competition from
                    used cars, techniques of distribution were greatly improved, and the rise of the UAW necessitated
                    far-ranging changes in management-labor relations. Since 1945 Rae finds few major innovations within
                    the industry. The outstanding features in the automotive world have been in highway construction and
                    design and the explosion of suburbia, both the results of increased automobile usage.
            The only unsatisfactory portion of this book is the discussion of social change engendered by the
                    automobile. Here, it seems to me, the author has been content merely to catalogue the obvious and
                    sometimes to overstate the role of the automobile in the sweeping social changes so obvious in our
                    times. Happily, this is a small failing in an otherwise informative and valuable book.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                Lawrence C. Kelly
         
         
            
               Idol of the West: The Fabulous Career of Rollin Mallory Daggett. by Francis
                    Phelps Weisenburger. (
                        Syracuse
                    , N.Y.: 
                        Syracuse
                     University Press, 1965. Pp. ix, 220. Illustrations, notes, selected bibliography,
                    index. $6.95.)
            Here is a good book and a fascinating yarn. Written by an eminent American historian, it offers in
                    about two hundred tightly packed pages a biography of a lesser figure worth our acquaintance, a
                    vivid experience in the Gold Rush to 
                        California
                    , an exciting record of mining-boom days in the mountain regions of 
                        California
                     and 
                        Nevada
                    , and a thrilling account of the lusty, reckless, swaggering, sensuous crew of artists
                    who built a literature out of the "magnificent, grand rocks" and the wild, rampant
                    urban frontier of the Far West.
            
            Rollin Daggett, the story's central figure, was born of New 
                        England
                     parents in northern 
                        New York
                    , not far from the Thousand Islands, in 1831. While a small lad, he continued with his
                    family the transmigration to northwestern 
                        Ohio
                    , where the Black Swamp frontier town of Defiance became home through the time of his
                    youth. Daggett's early exposure as a printer's devil at eighteen to the trade that
                    attracted him to a writing and editing career was interrupted by the cry of
                    "Gold!" in the West, and early in 1850 he hit the trail for 
                        California
                    .
            Two years in the gold fields apparently were rewarding and late in 1852, Daggett joined J. Macdonough
                    Foard in 
                        San Francisco
                     in founding and publishing for eight years the Golden Era, the
                    Pacific Coast's most important literary journal of the nineteenth century. Bret
                    Harte's earliest preserved works appeared in the Era during
                    Daggett's editorship. After two years of editing the 
                        San Francisco
                    
                    Daily Evening Mirror, 1860–1862, Daggett headed for 
                        Virginia City
                     and the Comstock Lode, "by, … to make money." After
                    establishing a brokerage firm there, he was soon writing for the Territorial
                    Enterprise, along with a brilliant, roistering coterie of youthful reporters that included
                    Joseph T. Goodman, the editor, Dennis E. McCarthy, along with Goodman a proprietor of the paper, Dan
                    De Quille (William Wright), Samuel L. Clemens (who became Mark Twain on this paper), and Charles
                    Carroll Goodwin. For a time, 1874–1875 and 1877–1878, Daggett edited the Enterprise.
            
            In 
                        Virginia City
                     he also gave part of his time to politics. In 1862 he was elected to the 
                        Nevada
                     Territorial Legislature, and between 1867 and 1876 he served as clerk of the 
                        United States
                     Circuit and District courts of 
                        Nevada
                    . In 1876 he was a Hayes elector, and two years later he was sent to Congress for a
                    term. Defeated for reelection, he was named by Arthur minister to 
                        Hawaii
                     in 1882 and served there until 1885.
            Meanwhile, his writing—prose and poetry—continued for newspapers and magazines.
                    A novel entitled Braxton's Bar appeared in 1882, and the materials were
                    gathered for a book on The Legends and Myths of 
                            Hawaii
                        
               , published in 1888 by Mark Twain.
            In Congress Daggett fought for the equalization of railroad freight rates, free coinage of silver,
                    and public land benefits for his adopted state; and at one point he worked for a copyright law that
                    would be advantageous to his old friend, Twain. As minister he strove to create and maintain a
                    situation and atmosphere favorable to ultimate annexation. Although he was a nationalist, he was,
                    above all, a westerner who fancied himself a frontiersman and perpetuated his view of the West in
                    voluminous writings. To him, air and space were the fortune of the West and the preservative of
                    American life, while "poverty and crime and discontent nurse schemes of disorder in the
                    narrow ways and crowded tenements of the great cities, and fill the air with threatened
                    violence" (p. 69).
            On a superb descriptive background of the early nineteenth-century towns of Richville, 
                        New York
                    , and Defiance, 
                        Ohio
                    , and of the gold fields, 
                        San Francisco
                    , and 
                        Virginia City
                    , Professor Weisenburger has painted  a rich portrait
                    of this ebullient figure. Daggett could carouse all night with Artemus Ward and reporters on the Enterprise, receive official guests with his galluses slapping his thighs while
                    minister to 
                        Hawaii
                    , enjoy the corrupt political fray of 
                        Nevada
                     in the 1870's and 1880's, stretch the truth in his mountain tales, or
                    write lines like these: 
                        And tardy Summer, garlanded with flowers,
                        Trips down the hillside like a wayward child,
                        Her garments fringed with frost; but in her smile
                        The valleys turn to green, and tender flowers
                        Woke from their slumber by the song of birds,
                        Reach up to kiss the dimpled mouth of May.
                    
            
            
               
                  
                            Kent
                         State University James H. Rodabaugh
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
