
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 18, Issue 4, pages 315-399. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:18+issue:4+year:1922&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            Tecumseh and Pushmataha
            J. WESLEY WHICKER, Attica
            Tecumseh, the celebrated Shawnee chief, was born in 1768 at the Shawnee village of Piqua in the state
                    of 
                        Ohio
                    . His father was killed in the battle of Point Pleasant in 1774. The Shawnee town of
                    Piqua was destroyed by the Kentuckians in 1780. After the death of his father Tecumseh was placed
                    under the care of his elder brother who in turn was killed in a battle with the whites on the 
                        Tennessee
                     frontier in 1788, and still another of his brothers was killed by his side at 
                        Wayne
                    's Victory in 1794.
            His mother was born in the state of 
                        Alabama
                     and was a Creek Indian by birth. The Creek Indians, Choctaws, Chick-asaws, Seminoles
                    and Cherokees were Muscogeans, while the Shawnees were Algonquins.
            In 1811 in making a speech at 
                  Tallassee, Alabama
                on the Tallapoosa
                    river, to five thousand Muscogean warriors, he said: 
                        O, Muscogeans, brethren of my mother, brush from your eyelids the sleep of slavery. Once more
                            strike for vengeance. Once more strike for your country. The spirits of the mighty dead
                            complain. Their tears drop from the weeping skies. Let the white race perish. Burn their
                            dwellings. Destroy their stock. Slay their wives and children. The red men own this country.
                            The pale face must never enjoy it.
                    
            
            Tecumseh was more fitted than any Indian chieftain to form a great confederacy of all the western and
                    southern tribes to oppose the advance of the white settlers of the 
                    
                        United States
                    . No one knew this better than the English, who at that time controlled the posts at
                    Macinac and 
                        Detroit
                    , although they had vacated these posts in 1796. The idea of a confederation of all the
                    tribes was not original with Tecumseh. It was the inspiration of King Philip, Brant, Red Jacket,
                    Pontiac and Little Turtle.
            These chieftains were all Algonquins and it was the desire of the English that the Indian confederacy
                    include both the great divisions of the Indian tribes and Tecumseh, being a cross between these two
                    great divisions, was the chieftain most suited to their purpose. Every speech made by Tecumseh,
                    every act of his, from 1807 until his death in 1813, was inspired by the English officials in 
                        Canada
                     and no one knew this better than William Henry Harrison, then governor of the territory
                    of Indiana.
            On the 27th of July, 1811, Tecumseh arrived at 
                        Vincennes
                    . At the close of his interview with the governor which took place at this time Tecumseh
                    declared it was not his intention to make war against the 
                        United States
                    ; that the northern tribes were united and he was going to visit the southern Indians
                    and would return to the Prophets' Town; on his return he would visit the president of the 
                        United States
                     and settle all causes of difficulty between the Indians and him and he hoped no attempt
                    would be made to make settlement on the lands which had been sold to the 
                        United States
                     at the treaty at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    .
            Soon after the close of this conference with Governor Harrison Tecumseh, attended by from twenty to
                    thirty Indian warriors, suddenly took his departure from 
                        Vincennes
                     and proceeded down the Wabash river on his way to the south for
                    the purpose of disseminating his views among the Creeks, Chickasaws, Choctaws and Seminoles. His
                    real object was to get those tribes of Indians to join with the Indian tribes of the northern states
                    and support 
                        England
                     in a war against the 
                        United States
                    . He would have accomplished his purpose had it not been for the fact that the Choctaws
                    had a chieftain as loyal to the 
                        United States
                     as Tecumseh was to 
                        England
                    , in Pushmataha, who was a Choctaw of unknown ancestry, born on the banks of 
                        Noxuba creek
                     in 
                  Noxubee county, Mississippi
               , in 1764. Before he was twenty years of age he
                    had distinguished himself in an expedition against  the Osage
                    Indians west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . The boy disappeared early in this conflict, which lasted all day and upon joining the
                    Choctaw warriors was jeered at and accused of cowardice whereupon Pushmataha replied "Let
                    those laugh who can show more scalps than I can." Therewith he produced five scalps which
                    he threw upon the ground, the result of a single-handed onslaught on the enemies' rear.
                    This incident gained for him the name Eagle and won for him a chieftaincy. Later he became Mingo of
                    the Olkahamnali or six districts of Choctaws and exercised much influence in promoting friendly
                    relations with the whites. He strongly opposed Tecumseh's movement and it was largely
                    through him that the Shawnee chieftain's mission among the Muscogeans failed.
            In the memorial exercises at the grave of Pushmataha on Decoration Day, May 29, 1921, the meeting of
                    these two great chieftains was brought out very plainly and published in the Congressional Record, June 13, 1921. Hon. Charles D. Carter (himself an Indian), senator
                    from 
                        Oklahoma
                    , was master of ceremonies and delivered the following address: 
                        When the busy closing hours of the Sixty-first congress were dragging along toward midnight,
                            a page came to me on the floor and told me that Mr. Adam Byrd, from 
                                Mississippi
                            , who was retiring from congress, was about to leave for home and desired to see
                            me for a few moments before departing. Mr. Byrd led me to a secluded spot in the Democratic
                            cloakroom and after a brief explanation enjoined on me two responsibilities, which he said
                            he felt it my duty to undertake. The first has no connection with this meeting today, but
                            after finishing that this fine old fellow said in a most serious way, 'Charley, you
                            are an Indian,' and I want to talk to you about another Indian. Old Chief
                            Pushmataha was by long odds the greatest Indian who ever lived. Our southland had many
                            brave, heroic pioneers–Dale, Claiborne, Andrew Jackson, and others–but
                            this primitive, unlettered Indian did as much during the early part of the nineteenth
                            century toward saving the white population and the things it stands for as any of these, not
                            even excepting his bosom friend, Old Hickory himself. Our American people may not be
                            ungrateful, but they are the most thoughtless, forgetful people in the world, for they have
                            woefully neglected giving anything like adequate credit for the valuable services Pushmataha
                            rendered the white people then living south of the Ohio river and their
                            descendants. While he had much to do with making my own state possible, I doubt if there is
                            one school teacher out of fifty in 
                                Mississippi
                             who knows anything about his history. I doubt if there are ten men in congress
                            who even know that his body rests out here in congressional  cemetery, and before I came here they did not even do his
                            memory the honor to put flowers on his grave on Decoration day. I visit his grave on every
                            Sunday when the weather will permit, and I see that it is properly decorated at the proper
                            time. Now, I know you are not going to visit his grave every Sunday as I have, but I do want
                            you to promise me that you will go out there occasionally and that you will see that the old
                            chief's grave is given proper attention on Decoration day. With 'Good bye,
                            and God bless you,' he went out of the cloakroom, and I never saw him again, for he
                            died shortly afterwards.
                        I have done my best to keep this pledge, and no Decoration day has passed since that time
                            without appropriate decorations being placed on Pushmataha's grave, but had Adam
                            Byrd failed to make that farewell call on me that night, we might not be here today doing
                            just honor to the memory of this truly great man. Adam Byrd was right. Pushmataha was a
                            great chief. He was one of the greatest Indians who ever lived. He was more than that. He
                            was one of the greatest characters of his generation. The old chief was a skillful hunter,
                            an intrepid warrior, a close student of nature, a powerful orator, and a persuasive debater
                            in the councils of his tribe. He had an acute sense of justice, not only between man and man
                            but between nations as well. By patient and sagacious statesmanship and wise, far-seeing
                            counsel, he successfully steered the Choctaw ship of state through the then turbulent
                            complications without, to use his own proud boast, never having found it necessary
                            'to raise the tomahawk against the 
                                Great White
                             Father at 
                                Washington
                             or his children.'
                        The absorbing ambition of Pushmataha was that his people might become the equal of the whites
                            in education and civilization and take their place beside the white man in a business way,
                            in a professional way, and in the councils of the nation. He was always an advocate of
                            education and industry among his people and contributed much, not only of his time, but of
                            his small income to that end. He was dearly beloved by both the Choctaws and Chickasaws, and
                            after his death one of the executive and judicial districts of his nation in Indian
                            Territory was named in his honor. When the forty-sixth star was added to the constellation
                            of Old Glory the 
                                Oklahoma
                             people gave evidence of their appreciation of the memory of this grand old man
                            by naming one of the largest and most beautiful counties of the state for him.
                        But I must not trespass too greatly upon your time. You are to have the privilege of hearing
                            this great man's life and character discussed by those much better informed and
                            equipped than myself. I will pause only long enough to tell you something of what I believe
                            his own people, the Choctaws, consider one of Pushmataha's greatest achievements.
                            This has to do with the part he took in saving the white man's civilization west of
                            the Alleghenies and specifically his reply to the wonderful address delivered before the
                            Choctaw council by the great Shawnee orator, Tecumseh. The War of 1812 was impending and the
                            British authorities were doing all in their power to stir up antagonism between the Indians
                            and the Americans. The astute Shawnee  chief, Tecumseh,
                            was sent on a tour by British agents to organize all Indians west of the Alleghenies with
                            the purpose to expel the white American beyond the mountains. One of the first tribes he
                            visited was the Choctaw. After his mission had been explained to Pushmataha, the wise old
                            chief advised Tecumseh that he was only one of the three chiefs of the Choctaw nation; that
                            the Choctaws could only take part in any war upon the decision of the general council of the
                            tribe; and that before this was done they would probably desire to consult their kindred
                            tribe and ally, the Chickasaws. Tecumseh then requested that both tribes be called together
                            in order that he might lay his plan before the council. After a consultation with the other
                            two Choctaw chiefs, Masholatubby and Apuckshinubby, and the principal chief of the
                            Chickasaws, a general council of the two tribes was called.
                        Tecumseh was classed by many of his contemporaries as the most powerful debater of his
                            generation, and this was saying much, for it was during the day of 
                                Clay
                            , Calhoun and Webster. Realizing the full power of his oratory, Tecumseh
                            surmised if he could get to speak to the Choctaw people in general council, they would not
                            be able to resist his magnetic eloquence. The council was assembled, and Tecumseh, with his
                            suite of thirty warriors bedecked in panoply of paint and feathers, filed in before the
                            council fire to deliver his address. We must bear in mind that the Shawnees spoke an
                            entirely different language from the Choctaws and Chickasaws, the Shawnees belonging to the
                            Algonquin stock and speaking their dialect, while the Choctaws and Chickasaws are of the
                            Muscogean stock and spoke the Muskogean dialect. Therefore it was necessary for each speech
                            to be translated by an interpreter so all might understand.
                        The great Shawnee chief was thoroughly familiar with past relations between all Indian tribes
                            and the whites, and he began by recounting all the wrongs perpetrated on the Indians by the
                            palefaces since the landing of 
                                Columbus
                            . He related how the white man had beguiled the Indians along the Atlantic coast
                            to part with their lands for a few trifling beads and a little fire water, leaving them
                            beggars, vagabonds, peons and strangers in their own land, to be scorned and despised by
                            their palefare neighbors. He told how the Shawnees and other northern tribes were being
                            stripped of their patrimony. He laid down the principle that the Great Spirit had given the
                            western hemisphere to all red people in common and that no particular tribe had anything
                            more than the right of possession to any lands, and therefore asserted any relinquishment of
                            title by one tribe to be null and void, because many of the owners had not joined in the
                            transfer. These wrongs he declared had been made possible by the ingenuity of the whites in
                            attacking only one tribe at a time, but if all Indians would join and combine their forces
                            in one attack at one time, the white man could be driven hack over the mountains whence he
                            came; that the golden opportunity was now at hand to join hands with the British and scourge
                            from their revered hunting grounds eternally the hated paleface. He closed his eloquent
                            address with a stirring appeal to the patriotism of the Choctaws  and Chickasaws, asking if they would await complete submission
                            or would they not join hands and fight beside the Shawnees and other tribes rather than
                            submit?
                        Evidently Tecumseh's purpose had been fully accomplished. His magnetic words seemed
                            to arouse every vindictive sentiment within the souls of the Choctaw and Chickasaw warriors;
                            their savage enthusiasm had been stirred to white heat when Pushmataha calmly strode before
                            the council fire and began his wonderful reply to Tecumseh's speech. What a pity
                            that no accurate account of this wonderful debate between these two giant primitive orators
                            was at that time preserved. Lince-cum, Pickett, Randall and other historians have left us
                            brief excerpts. Cushman undertakes to give Pushmataha's speech in full, but his
                            recital does not even do faint justice to the original and in no measure conforms to the
                            Choctaw's account of it. For many years it was handed down from generation to
                            generation by tradition to the Choc-taws and Chickasaws, but it can be easily understood how
                            that method might fail to preserve all the virile force and eloquence of this wonderful
                            address. I will undertake to give it to you in part as nearly as I remember hearing it told
                            by some of the old Indians many years ago. Pushmataha began his address as follows:
                        'Omiske, tushkahoma ho chukma hashche yumma! Anumpa tilo-fasih ish huklo.
                        (Attention, my good red warriors! Hear ye my brief remarks.) The great Shawnee orator has
                            portrayed in vivid picture the wrongs inflicted on his and other tribes by the ravages of
                            the paleface. The candor and fervor of his eloquent appeal breathe the conviction of truth
                            and sincerity, and, as kindred tribes, naturally we sympathize with the misfortunes of his
                            people. I do not come before you in any disputation either for or against these charges. It
                            is not my purpose to contradict any of these allegations against the white man, but neither
                            am I here to indulge in any indiscreet denunciation of him which might bring down upon my
                            people unnecessary difficulty and embarrassment.
                        The distinguished Shawnee sums up his eloquent appeal to us with this direct question:
                        Will you sit idly by, supinely awaiting complete and abject submission, or will you die
                            fighting beside your brethren, the Shawnees, rather than submit to such ignominy?
                        These are plain words and it is well they have been spoken, for they bring the issue squarely
                            before us. Mistake not, this language means war. And war with whom, pray? War with some band
                            of marauders who have committed these depredations against the Shawnees? War with some alien
                            host seeking the destruction of the Choctaws and Chickasaws? Nay, my fellow tribesmen. None
                            of these are the enemy we will be called on to meet. If we take up arms against the
                            Americans we must of necessity meet in deadly combat our daily neighbors and associates in
                            this part of the country near our homes.
                        If Tecumseh's words be true, and we doubt them not, then the Shawnees'
                            experience with the whites has not been the same as that  of the Choctaws. These white Americans buy our skins, our corn, our cotton, our surplus
                            game, our baskets, and other wares, and they give us in fair exchange their cloth, their
                            guns, their tools, implements, and other things which the Choctaws need but do not make. It
                            is true we have befriended them, but who will deny that we have been abundantly
                            reciprocated? They have given us cotton gins, which simplify the cleaning and sale of our
                            cotton; they have encouraged and helped us in the production of our crops; they have taken
                            many of our wives into their homes to teach them useful things, and pay them for their work
                            while learning; they are teaching our children to read and write from their books. You all
                            remember well the dreadful epidemic visited upon us last winter, and during its darkest
                            hours these neighbors whom we are now urged to attack responded generously to our needs.
                            They doctored our sick; they clothed our suffering; they fed our hungry, ad where is the
                            Choctaw or Chickasaw delegation who has ever gone to St. Stephens with a worthy cause and
                            been sent away empty handed? So in marked contrast with the experience of the Shawnees, it
                            will be seen that the whites and Indians in this section are living on friendly and mutually
                            beneficial terms.
                        Forget not, O Choctaws and Chickasaws, that we are bound in peace to the 
                                Great White
                             Father at 
                                Washington
                             by a sacred treaty and the Great Spirit will punish those who break their word.
                            The 
                                Great White
                             Father has never violated that treaty and the Choctaws have never yet been
                            driven to the necessity of taking up the tomahawk against him or his children. Therefore the
                            question before us tonight is not the avenging of any wrongs perpetrated against us by the
                            whites, for the Choctaws and Chickasaws have no such cause, either real or imaginary, but
                            rather it is a question of carrying on that record of fidelity and justice for which our
                            forefathers ever proudly stood, and doing that which is best calculated to promote the
                            welfare of our own people. Yea, my fellow tribesmen, we are a just people. We do not take up
                            the warpath without a just cause and honest purpose. Have we that just cause against our
                            white neighbors, who have taken nothing from us except by fair bargain and exchange? Is this
                            a just recompense for their assistance to us in our agricultural and other pursuits? Is this
                            to be their gracious reward for teaching our children from their books? Shall this be
                            considered the Choctaws' compensation for feeding our hungry, clothing our needy,
                            and administering to our sick? Have we, O Choctaws and Chickasaws, descended to the low
                            estate of ruthlessly breaking the faith of a sacred treaty? Shall our forefathers look back
                            from the happy hunting grounds only to see their unbroken record for justice, gratitude, and
                            fidelity thus rudely repudiated and abruptly abandoned by an unworthy offspring?
                        We Choctaws and Chickasaws are a peaceful people, making our subsistence by honest toil; but
                            mistake not, my Shawnee brethren, we are not afraid of war. Neither are we strangers to war,
                            as those who have undertaken to encroach upon our rights in the past may abundantly testify.
                            We are thoroughly familiar with war in all its details 
                            and we know full well all its horrible consequences. It is unnecessary for me to remind you,
                            O Choctaws and Chickasaws, veteran braves of many fierce conflicts in the past, that war is
                            an awful thing. If we go into this war against the Americans, we must be prepared to accept
                            its inevitable results. Not only will it foretoken deadly conflict with neighbors and death
                            to warriors, but it will mean suffering for our women, hunger and starvation for our
                            children, grief for our loved ones, and devastation of our homes. Notwithstanding these
                            difficulties, if the cause be just, we should not hesitate to defend our rights to the last
                            man, but before that fatal step is irrevocably taken, it is well that we fully understand
                            and seriously consider the full portent and consequences of the act.
                        Hear me, O Choctaws and Chicksaws, for I speak truly for your welfare. It is not the province
                            of your chiefs to settle these important questions. As a people, it is your prerogative to
                            have either peace or war, and as one of your chiefs, it is mine simply to advise. There
                            fore, let me admonish you that this critical period is no time to cast aside your wits and
                            let blind impulse sway; be not driven like dumb brutes by the frenzied harangue of this
                            wonderful Shawnee orator; let your good judgment rule and ponder seriously before breaking
                            bonds that have served you well and ere you change conditions which have brought peace and
                            happiness to your wives, your sisters, and your children. I would not undertake to dictate
                            the course of one single Choctaw warrior. Permit me to speak for the moment, not as your
                            chief but as a Choctaw warrior, weighing this question beside you. As such I shall exercise
                            my calm, deliberate judgment in behalf of those most dear to me and dependent on me, and I
                            shall not suffer my reason to be swept away by this eloquent recital of alleged wrongs which
                            I know naught of. I deplore this war,. I earnestly hope it may be averted, but if it be
                            forced upon us I shall take my stand with those who have stood by my people in the past and
                            will be found fighting beside our good friends of St. Stephens and surrounding country. I
                            have finished. I call on all Choctaws and Chickasaws indorsing my sentiments to cast their
                            tomahawks on this side of the council fire with me.'
                        The air resounded with the clash of tomahawks cast on the side of the Choctaw chief and only
                            a few warriors seemed still undecided. Tecumseh seeing the purpose of his mission thwarted
                            and thinking Pushmataha could not understand the Shawnee language, spoke to his warriors in
                            his native tongue, saying: 'Pushmataha is a coward and the Choctaw and Chicksaw
                            braves are squaws,' but Pushamataha had traveled much and knew a smattering of many
                            Indian dialects. He understood Tecumseh and turning upon the Shawnee with all the fire of
                            his eloquence, he clinched the argument and settled the decision of the few wavering Choctaw
                            braves by saying:
                        'Halt, Tecumseh! Listen to me. You have come here, as you have often gone elsewhere,
                            with a purpose to involve peaceful people in unnecessary trouble with their neighbors. Our
                            people have had no undue  friction with the whites. Why?
                            Because we have had no leaders stirring up strife to serve their selfish, personal
                            ambitions. You heard me say that our people are a peaceful people. They make their way, not
                            by ravages upon their neighbors but by honest toil. In that regard they have nothing in
                            common with you. I know your history well. You are a disturber. You have ever been a trouble
                            maker. When you have found yourself unable to pick a quarrel with the white man, you have
                            stirred up strife between different tribes of your own race. Not only that, you are a
                            monarch and unyielding tyrant within your own domain. Every Shawnee man, woman, and child,
                            must bow in humble submission to your imperious will. The Choc-taws and Chicasaws have no
                            monarchs. Their chieftains do not undertake the mastery of their people, but rather are they
                            the people's servants, elected to serve the will of the majority. The majority has
                            spoken on this question and it has spoken against your contention. Their decision has
                            therefore become the law of the Choctaws and Chick-asaws and Pushamataha will see that the
                            will of the majority so recently expressed is rigidly carried out to the letter. If, after
                            this decision, any Choctaw should be so foolish as to follow your imprudent advice and
                            enlist to fight against the Americans, thereby abandoning his own people and turning against
                            the decision of his own council, Pushmataha will see that proper punishment is meted out to
                            him, which is death. You have made your choice; you have elected to fight with the British.
                            The Americans have been our friends and we shall stand by them. We will furnish you safe
                            conduct to the boundaries of this nation as properly befits the dignity of your office.
                            Farewell, Tecumseh. You will see Pushmataha no more until we meet on the
                            fateful warpath.'
                    
            
            Obviously these two noble sons of the forest and their tribes has reached the point where the trail
                    divides. The Choctaws and Chickasaws were persuaded to refuse partiei pation in Tecumseh's
                    conspiracy against the Americans and the action of these two powerful tribes prevented many other
                    Indians from siding with the British. The Choctaws and Chickasaws finally joined; hands with the
                    Americans and fought from the early battles of the war to the Battle of 
                        New Orleans
                    , and Pushmataha arose to the rank of brigadier general in the American army.
            On his return Tecumseh stopped for a short time with the Creek Indians. He was disappointed in the
                    turn his mission had taken at the meeting with the Choctaws and started home with his bodyguard of
                    warriors. He crossed the Ohio river near Shawneetown and traveled along the
                    edge of the grand prairie to a point a little north of 
                  Danville, Illinois
               
                     where he turned east. When he crossed the Harrison trail it was
                    dark and he was in a hurry to get to the Prophet's Town and he did not notice that an army
                    had passed. He crossed the Wabash river near Covington and stayed over night
                    about two miles north of Covington.
            He and his party arose early in the morning and went to the 
                        Miami
                     Indian camp near where 
                        Tippecanoe county
                     and 
                        Montgomery county
                     corner at the 
                        Fountain county
                     line. He found this camp vacated and no signs of life. He thought perhaps the Prophet
                    had called in the scattered families but he had no idea of the great disaster that had befallen his
                    Indian followers, and he hurried on to the mouth of the Tippecanoe river. It
                    was dark when he reached the site of the Prophet's Town. He had not met a single soul to
                    give him any information. As he peered through the darkness there was no light and no sound, nor any
                    indication of life in the village that he had left on his southern trip. In the village he found one
                    lone inhabitant, an old Indian squaw who had been unable to travel with the rest of the Indians when
                    they left. She related to him the results of the battle of Tippecanoe and told him the Shawnees and
                    those who had survived the battle had gone to 
                        Canada
                    . He stayed over night at the camp and early the next morning he started on his journey
                    sad and broken-hearted to join the scattered remnants of the northern tribes that had gathered about
                    him.
            He allied himself immediately with the English in 
                        Canada
                     and by them was made a brigadier-general in the British service and commander-in-chief
                    of all the Indian allies of the War of 1812 in the British army.
            In the late spring or early summer of 1813 Tecumseh made a second trip to 
                        Alabama
                    , to see the Muscogean Indians. On this trip he appeared in an entirely different role.
                    His hope of a confederation of all the Indian tribes north and south had completely faded away with
                    the signal defeat of his brother, the Prophet, at the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , and now he was a brigadier-general in the English army and his object was to get his
                    mother's tribes, the Muscogean Indians, to cast their fortunes with himself and the English
                    in the war that was then a reality.
            
            
                    Lossing says in The First Century of the 
                            United States
                         Affairs in the extreme south assumed a serious aspect during the summer of 1813. In
                        the spring of that year Tecumseh (who was slain on the Thames a few months later) went among the
                        southern tribes to arouse them to wage war upon the white people and the powerful Creeks yielded
                        to his persuasions.
                
            Charles A. Goodrich says, in his History of the 
                            United States
                        :
                    
                        The discontentment of the warring spirit of the Creeks jhad been much increased and their
                            hostile spirit inflamed through the influence of the celebrated Tecumseh, who in 1813 had
                            made them a visit, at which time he passed through the region with a view to persuade them
                            to shake off the impressions of civilized life and return to their former more independent
                            and unshackled mode of living. By means of the eloquence of this savage Demosthenes the
                            party hostile to the 
                                United States
                             was much increased–a civil war commenced– and a vexatious
                            border warfare was begun upon the whites.
                        The Creeks received arms and presents from the British government, made with a view to
                            enlisting them against the 
                                United States
                             in the war in which the former were now engaged with the latter.
                        The commencement of hostilities by the Creeks in two months after Tecumseh's second
                            visit was an attack upon Fort Mims, on the 30th of August, 1813. About noon, the garrison of
                            the fort was surprised by about six hundred Indians. At first the American troops stood upon
                            their defense, and repulsed the savages; but on being harangued by their chief, Weatherford,
                            they returned with augmented fury, drove the besieged into the houses and set them on fire.
                            A shocking massacre ensued. Not one was spared by the savage monsters, and but a few
                            effected their escape. Only seventeen out of three hundred men, women and children, who had
                            taken refuge in the fort from adjoining settlements, were left to convey the melancholy
                            tidings to the surrounding inhabitants.
                        On the receipt of this disastrous intelligence, two thousand men from 
                                Tennessee
                            , under General Jackson, and five hundred under General Coffee, immediately
                            marched to the country of the Creeks. On the second of November, General Jackson detached
                            General Coffee, with nine hundred mounted cavalry and mounted riflemen, from his
                            headquarters, the Ten Islands, on the Coosa river, to attack a body of
                            Creeks at 
                                Tallushatches
                            . This attack was made on the morning of the third, and resulted in the repulse
                            of the Indians, who lost in killed two hundred, and eighty-four were taken prisoners. The
                            killed and wounded of the Americans were forty-six.
                    
            
            According to a distinguished historian of 
                        Mississippi
                    , Dr. Frank Riley, it was on the site of the town of Pushmataha, 
                    
                        Alabama
                    , in 1813, where the Creek Indians had invited the Choctaws to join them in a council,
                    that this Choctaw chief appealed to them for two long July days, from early morn to late evening
                    hours, urging the Creek warriors, with all the fervor, wisdom, and logic at his command, not to heed
                    the illconceived advice of the shrewd Tecumseh, but to remain neutral, and refuse to join in a war
                    upon the American flag.
            Chief of a nation that prided itself on never having shed the white man's blood, having won
                    that title by valorous deeds amongst his own race, so distinguished himself, battling in defense of
                    the white man's home that General Jackson commissioned him a brigadier general in the 
                        United States
                     army Pushmataha stands out singly and. alone the only man of his race who ever attained
                    so high a rank in our army.
            Pushmataha returning home by way of St. Stephens, assembled the Choctaw warriors at the council
                    grounds, near 
                  Meridian, Mississippi
               , and delivered to them a memorable oration. After
                    stating to his people that several hundred of his white friends had been killed at Fort Mims, and
                    many massacred in the Tombigbee settlements, and after stating that President Washington, whom he
                    had visited, had advised the Indians not to engage in war, one tribe with another said: 
                        Who that is a man and a warrior can be idle at home and hear of his friends being butchered
                            around him? I am a man and a warrior. I will not advise you to act contrary to the advice of
                            our good father, but I will go and help my friends.
                        If any of you think proper to follow me voluntarily, I will lead you to victory and to glory!
                            I, too, am a man and a warrior, and will follow the chief!
                     was shouted back by every one of his sturdy warriors. They followed their chief to victory
                    at the Holy Ground, Horse Shoe Bend, and many other historic battlefields, shedding their blood and
                    laying down their lives for their friends. If the spirit of this mighty chief could look from the
                    happy hunting grounds bepond the sun and view the civilization he saved, it might well declare,
                    "Pushmataha builded better than he knew."
            Tecumseh came back north and entered immediately into active service with the British army. He had
                    under his  command some two thousand Indian warriors,
                    representing seventeen allied northern tribes. He led them at French-town, the Raisin, Fort Meigs,
                    and Fort Stevenson, and covered Proctor's retreat after 
                        Perry
                    's decisive victory on Lake Erie, until he finally
                    declined to retreat further and compelled Proctor to make a stand on the river
                    Thames, near the present site of 
                  Chatham,
                            Ontario
               , where he, with many of his
                    warriors, were killed on October 5, 1813. The remaining northern Indians immediately deserted the
                    British army. Charles A. Goodrich, in his history, says of Tecumseh: 
                        He was in several respects the most celebrated Indian warrior which ever raised an arm
                            against the Americans. He had been in almost every engagement with the whites, since
                            Harmar's defeat, although at death he scarcely exceeded forty years of age.
                            Tecumseh has received the stamp of greatness from the hand of nature, and had his lot been
                            cast in a different state of society, he would have shone one of the most distinguished of
                            men. He was endowed with a powerful mind, with the soul of a hero. There was an uncommon
                            dignity in his countenance and manners. By the former he could easily be discovered, even
                            after death, among the rest of the slain, for he wore no insignia of distinction. When
                            girded with a silk sash, and told by General Proctor that he was made a brigadier in the
                            British service, for his conduct at 
                                Brownstown
                             and Magagua he returned the present with respectful contempt. Born with no
                            title to command, but his native greatness, every tribe yielded submission to him at once,
                            and no one ever disputed his precedence. Subtle and fierce in war, he was possessed of
                            uncommon eloquence–his speeches might bear a corn∗ parison with those
                            of the most celebrated orators of 
                                Greece
                             and Rome. His invective was terrible, as may be seen in the reproaches which he
                            applied to Proctor, a few days before his death, in a speech which was found among the
                            papers of the British officer. His form was uncommonly elegant, his stature about six feet,
                            his limbs perfectly proportioned. He was honorably interred by the victors, by whom he was
                            held in much respect, as an inveterate, but magnanimous enemy.
                    
            
            The Creek Indians, under their Prophet, Weatherford, continued in the war with the English.
            In January, 1814, General Jackson was reinfjorced by eight hundred volunteers, designed to supply the
                    place of the 
                        Tennessee
                     militia, whose term of service having expired had returned home. With this force he
                    successfully attacked and defeated the Creeks, during the month, at Emucfau and Enotachopco.
            Notwithstanding repeated defeats and serious losses, the  Creeks
                    remained unsubdued. Still determined not to yield, they commenced fortifying the bend of the
                        Tallapoosa river, called by them Tohopeka, but by the Americans,
                    Horse-Shoe-Bend. Their principal defense consisted of a breastwork, from five to eight feet high,
                    across the peninsula by means of which nearly one hundred acres of land were rendered admirably
                    secure. Through this breastwork a double row of port-holes were so artfully arranged that whoever
                    assailed it, must be exposed to a double and cross fire from the Indians, who lay behind, to the
                    number of one thousand.
            Against this fortified refuge of the infatuated Creeks, General Jackson, having gathered up his
                    forces, proceeded on the twenty-fourth of March. On the night of the twenty-sixth, he encamped
                    within six miles of the bend. On the twenty-seventh, he detached General Coffee, with a competent
                    number of men, to pass the river, at a ford three miles below the bend, for the purpose of
                    preventing the Indians effecting their escape, if inclined, by crossing the river.
            With the remainder of his force, General Jackson now advanced to the front of the breastwork, and at
                    half past ten planted his artillery on a small eminence, at only a moderate distance.
            Affairs being now arranged, the artillery opened a tremendous fire upon the breastwork, while General
                    Coffee, with his force below, continued to advance towards an Indian village, which stood at the
                    extremity of the peninsula. A well directed fire across the river, which here is but about one
                    hundred yards wide, drove the Indian inhabitants from their houses up to the fortifications.
            At length, finding all his arrangements complete, and the favorite moment arrived, General Jackson
                    led on his now animated troops to the charge. For a short time an obstinate contest was maintained
                    at the breastwork–muzzle to muzzle through the port-holes–when the Americans
                    succeeded in gaining the opposite side of the works. A mournful scene of slaughter ensued. In a
                    short time the Indians were routed, and the whole plain was strewed with the dead. Five hundred and
                    fifty-seven were found, and a large number were drowned in attempting to escape by the river. Three
                    hundred women and children were taken prisoners. The loss of the Americans was twenty-six killed,
                    and one hundred and  seven wounded. Eighteen friendly Cherokees
                    were killed, and thirty-six wounded, and five friendly Creeks were killed and eleven wounded.
            This signal defeat of the Creeks put an end to the war. Shortly after, the remnant of the nation sent
                    in their submission. Among these was the prophet and leader, Weather-ford. In bold and impressive
                    language, he said: 
                        I am in your power. Do with me what you please. I have done the white people all the harm I
                            could. I have fought them and fought them bravely. There was a time, when I had a choice. I
                            have none now –even hope is ended. Once, I could animate my warriors; but I
                            cannot animate the dead. They can no longer hear my voice, their bones are at 
                                Tallushatches
                            , Talladega, Emucfau, and Tohopeka. While there was a chance of success, I never
                            supplicated peace; but my people are gone, and I now ask it for my nation and myself.
                    
            
            On the ninth of August, a treaty was made with them by General Jackson. They agreed to yield a
                    portion of their territory as indemnity for the expenses of the war, to allow the opening of roads
                    through their lands, to admit the whites to the free navigation of their rivers, and to take no more
                    bribes from the British.
            All the Indian tribes, both north and south, who were persuaded by the eloquent Shawnee chieftain to
                    follow this forlorn hope and join the English army to drive the Americans from the western frontier,
                    had met with defeat, deserted by the English army, were captured and killed within a year from
                    Tecumseh's return from his second trip south; and when their Indian allies were all gone
                    and the English had to do their own fighting, they were ready to negotiate for terms of peace.
            Pushmataha was right. Tecumseh was ever a trouble∗ maker and a disturber. He was a
                    renegade from his own tribe. He never engaged in a successful warfare or battle, and was at all
                    times a hireling of the British government, using his influence and his relationship with the
                    various tribes of Indians to further his personal interests, and the most that can be said for him
                    is that "He was in several respects the most celebrated Indian warrior which ever raised an
                    arm against the Americans."
            Senator Carter is right. Pushmataha, the Choctaw chieftain, was the greatest Indian who ever lived.
                    He died in the  City of 
                        Washington
                    , of the croup, in the sixtieth year of his age, after returning from a visit to General
                    Lafayette, on the 24th day of December, 1824. When he was buried in the National cemetery at 
                        Arlington
                    , on ground contiguous to the place of interment there was an immense concourse of
                    citizens, a long train of carriages, cavalry, military, bands of music, the whole procession
                    extending at least a mile in length; and there were thousands lining the way and filling the doors
                    and windows along the line of his funeral train, and Andrew Jackson and General Lafayette stood by
                    with ancovered heads when his body was lowered into the grave.
            In the senate of the 
                        United States
                     a tribute was paid to this Choctaw chieftain by the celebrated John Randolph, who said:
                        
                        Sir, in a late visit to the public grave-yard, my attention was arrested by the simple
                            monument of the Choctaw chief, Pushmataha. He was, I have been told by those who knew him,
                            one of nature's nobility; a man who would have adorned any society. He lies quietly
                            by the side of our statesmen and high magistrates in the region– for there is one
                            such–where the red man and the white man are on a level. On the sides of the
                            plain shaft that marks his place of burial, I read these words: 'Pushamataha, a
                            Choctaw chief, lies here. This monument to his memory is erected by his brother chiefs, who
                            were associated with him in a delegation from their nation in the year 1824, to the
                            Government of the 
                                United States
                            . Pushmataha was a warrior of great distinction. He was wise in council,
                            eloquent in an extraordinary degree; and on all occasions, and under all circumstances, the
                            white man's friend. He died in 
                                Washington
                            , on the 24th day of December, 1824, of the croup, in the sixtieth year of his
                            age.'
                    
            
            Claiborne said of him, speaking of his funeral nearly ninety-seven years ago: 
                        The remains of Pushmataha were committed to the earth in the Congress burying ground amid the
                            roar of artillery and the music of muffled drums, and his last words were engraved upon his
                            tomb. Thus closed the career of one who in civilized life would have adorned the senate and
                            been regarded by posterity as we now regard the heroes of antiquity; a man of the noblest
                            attributes, who had it in his gower to depopulate our territories, but whose arm was always
                            extended for the protection of the whites.
                    
            
            Adam Byrd was right. Pushmataha was by long odds the greatest Indian who ever lived. In every battle
                    and every  war in which he took part he was victorious. He
                    always held the interests of the Indians and their various tribes above his personal interests. He
                    used his efforts to keep them from war, and that they might become intelligent, useful American
                    citizens.
            We of Indiana, 
                  Illinois, Michigan, Ohio, Wisconsin
                and 
                        Minnesota
                     are as deeply indebted to him for his opposition to Tecumseh and his confederacy as are
                    the states of 
                  Alabama, Mississippi
                and 
                        Oklahoma
                    . His efforts were not local in their effect, but extended to the entire government, and
                    we Americans should let honor fall where honor belongs; and as between Tecumseh, the Shawnee
                    chieftain and brigadier-general in the British army, and Pushmataha, the Choctaw chieftain and
                    brigadier-general in the American army, Tecumseh giving his service and his life to the British and
                    for them, Pushmataha giving his life to the 
                        United States
                     of America, and for it, after the passing of more than a century of years since these
                    chieftains lived and warred, we should extol the virtues of this worthy chieftain in all the states
                    of our union.
         
         
         
            Pioneer Life In 
                        Boone County
                    
            
            JANE GREGORY STEVENSON, 1900, Aged 68
            My Grandfather Gregory was born and raised in 
                        Scotland
                    . He, with two brothers, came to America a few years before the War of the Revolution.
                    Their names were Moses, my grandfather, Jeremiah, and Stephen. They settled and married somewhere in 
                        Connecticut
                    . When the war broke out, he like many others, thought it a great crime to rebel against
                    the king, but never took up arms on either side.
            When the war was over, he with others was banished to Newfoundland, at St. Johns, and there my
                    father, Peter Gregory was born, August 18th, 1789. After the limit of banishment was over, my
                    grandfather and family returned to the 
                        United States
                     and settled in the state of 
                        New York
                    . He lived to see his mistake and raised his boys to be true, loyal citizens to the new
                    government. They all voted the Whig ticket. He lived and held on true to his faith in his Savior to
                    the day of his death, which occurred in January, 1822. My Grandmother Gregory died about the same
                    time, only three days difference in their deaths. I do not know much of her history.
            Our mother's maiden name was Phoebe Carroll. She was the youngest daughter of William and
                    Phoebe Carroll. Our grandmother's maiden name was Phoebe Wortman. She was the daughter of a
                    German doctor. She was born in 
                        New Jersey
                    ; from there she came with her parents to the state of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , where she was married to our grandfather, William Carroll. He was a Revolutionary
                    soldier, fought both on land and sea, and part of the time directly under 
                        Washington
                    . He was in the service seven years and was never wounded.
            Our mother was born in 
                  Lycoming county, Pennsylvania
               , January 8th, 1801, and when quite
                    young removed with her parents to the state of 
                  New
                        York, Allegany county
               . There at the age
                    of twenty she was married to our father, Peter Gregory, aged thirty-two. To this union were born
                    twelve children, three of whom died in infancy. The other nine lived to maturity. One daughter, Mary
                    A. Gregory, died at the age of nineteen and is buried in Eagle Village cemetery,  the family burial place. Eight children lived to rear families. Their
                    names are James, Benjamin M., Lorena, Mary A., Jane, William Lewis, John P., Emily, Martha A.
            I was the fifth child, born in the state of 
                  New York,
                            Allegany county
               , December 5th, 1831. I came with
                    my parents to this state (Indiana) in the spring of 1834. We came all the way in a two-horse wagon;
                    were six weeks on the road. James, the oldest, was eleven, and Lewis, the youngest, six months old.
                    We first settled in 
                        Marion county
                    , ten miles north of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , which was then a mere village. The foundation of the first state house was just laid.
            About a year later my father bought a farm in the southeast corner of 
                        Boone county
                    , to which they soon moved. The family was there raised, until like birds in the nest
                    they had to scatter and flutter away, some to distant lands, some to the tomb. The same farm is now
                    owned by the heirs of my brother, B. M. Gregory, who died July 16, 1899.
            When my father moved to this farm there were only about fifteen acres of cleared land and a log cabin
                    made of round logs, the cracks chinked and daubed with clay mortar. It had a chimney made of blocks
                    of wood about four feet long, and at the top finished up with small sticks and daubed well inside
                    with clay mortar. About four feet from the fire was a pole, called the lug pole, to which were
                    attached two or three chains, with hooks on which to hang cooking vessels. My mother made great pots
                    of hominy, and hung them on these chains to cook.
            The next year my father built another room, with a space of about ten feet from the former one. It
                    was larger than the old one and built of hewed logs. It was a story and a half high, with a ladder
                    to go upstairs in the space between the two rooms. This entry was enclosed at the west end. On the
                    east side of the house, which fronted the 
                        Michigan
                     road, was a big porch the whole length of the houses. The roof was made of clapboards
                    about four feet long, nailed on nicely. There was a brick chimney and two good-sized windows. The
                    old house was also covered with clapboards, held down with weight poles. The weight poles were long,
                    heavy poles laid across the boards, and a square block about two feet long laid between, and so on
                    until the top was reached. The old house had only one small window and a puncheon floor, which  was a big log split in two or three pieces and hewed off with
                    an axe or adz; perhaps only an axe as tools were scarce in those early days. The house stood back
                    from the road perhaps five or six rods, on a hill sloping toward the road.
            At the foot of the hill was a spring from which we used water for several years. The spring was
                    walled up with big flat rocks, and we had a milk house built near it so the cool water passed
                    through it all the time. From the spring ran a brook which crossed the path to the big road, over
                    which was built a good plank bridge. The spring was shaded by beautiful walnut, willow and locust
                    trees. Below the bridge was a large calamus patch, which was always a delight to the children.
            In those early days the furniture was as rude as the houses. My father made his own bedsteads. The
                    beds were held up with ropes made for the purpose. Holes were bored through the bed rails and the
                    ropes stretched across each way very tightly. With a straw and feather bed on top it made a very
                    good bed to rest on. Chairs, if any, were splint bottom, and some had only stools.
            Our home was located about one-fourth of a mile south of a little village called Eagle Village, with
                    only a few houses and a postoffice. After a few years people of various trades moved in, and also a
                    dry goods store. We then could get a great many things in the furniture line we did not have before.
                    I remember distinctly a set of chairs my father had made by a man by the name of Bailey. They were
                    splint bottomed chairs painted green, and the backs curved a little. We also got better bedsteads.
                    Everything was paid for in some kind of trade, there being no home market for anything, and 
                        Indianapolis
                     was yet too small to afford much market. I have taken eggs to our village store and
                    only got three cents per dozen.
            When my parents first came here there were no grain mills closer than 
                        Indianapolis
                     or Broad Ripple, ten miles away. But it was not long till there were mills much closer,
                    as Eagle Creek afforded many good locations for mills. About the year 1839 a Mr. George Dye built a
                    grain and saw mill on Eagle Creek one mile west of our place and a quarter of a mile east of where
                    Zionsville now stands. It was built at the  bend of the creek.
                    It was a great blessing to our neighborhood.
            Everything at that date was in a rude and primitive condition. It had only been five years since the 
                        Michigan
                     or State road had been surveyed and cut out, and of course was very rough and
                    imperfect. I well remember the great log heaps left by the workmen in many places along the road on
                    either side, especially where the land was low and marshy. In the spring the frogs could be heard
                    for miles around those marshy places, and the forest trees on either side of the road looked like
                    great walls of nature's own make. But this under the sway of the white man's axe
                    rapidly passed away and gave room to the broad fields of waving grain. The road was then a hundred
                    feet wide. The streams of any size were all bridged by the government with good wooden bridges, but
                    no fine iron ones like we see now. In winter time the roads became impassible, except on horseback
                    or afoot.
            The mail for several years was carried on horseback, but there being so few people and postage so
                    high, there was very little writing done. I heard my mother say that when they first came here they
                    had to pay twenty-five cents postage for a letter from their home country, but they gave it as
                    freely as they would for food, so great was their anxiety to hear from their native home and loved
                    ones left behind. Later on in summer when roads were good the mail was carried in the stage coach,
                    drawn by four horses. In winter when roads were bad it was carried in a big wagon prepared for the
                    bad roads and was called the mud wagon. The stage coach was quite a nice affair. It was large and
                    strong, fixed on a swing so it would rock back and forth by the motion of the carriage, and was
                    large enough for nine persons to sit in comfortably, and sometimes there would be one or two outside
                    by the driver. The baggage was strapped on behind and sometimes thrown on top. The driver had a very
                    long horn which he would blow when approaching any stopping place. The coach was always full of
                    passengers. It used to be said there was always room for one more. They changed horses about every
                    twenty miles and always went on a fast trot.
            Public houses were plenty in those days, perhaps only one or two miles apart along the 
                        Michigan
                     road, and were  called taverns. All had plenty of
                    custom, so great was emigration. About the year 1836 or 1837 a family by the name of Larimore came
                    to our. village and built a tavern which was said to be the best and most commodious house between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Logansport
                    . Mr. Henry Nicholas, of North-field, was the contracting carpenter. It was a frame
                    building two stories high, and had a cupola and bell on top.
            The bell was a great attraction to children, as it was the only bell they had ever heard, there being
                    no school houses or churches with bells as we have nowadays. When the bell was ringing, I remember
                    the older children told us it said, "pigtail done! pigtail done!" which we verily
                    believed. The same bell is now on the old home place, owned by the grandson of my father, Peter
                    Gregory, and Larimore, Frank Gregory.
            Schoolhouses were scarce and most of them built of logs, like the dwelling houses, with a big
                    fireplace in one end which the pupils sat around. And while their faces would burn their backs would
                    chill. In many places the schoolhouse answered for both school and church. They also often held
                    religious services at private houses.
            The roads being so bad, the mode of travel, besides the coaches, was by horseback, or afoot,
                    especially in winter. It was no uncommon sight to see two or three men passing along with their
                    knapsacks on their backs. Nobody thought of calling them tramps as they do now. I remember once a
                    cousin from 
                        Michigan
                     visiting us, who came all the way afoot. It was in March. He stayed about three weeks
                    and brother James went home with him the same way.
            In the fall when the roads were good, emigration was so great that covered wagons might be seen
                    almost any time you might look out. My mother was an expert at making cheese and she always kept
                    light bread baked and a little sign out, "Bread and Cheese," by which she sold a
                    great deal to the passers-by and thus kept herself in pocket change. It was a common remark,
                    "There lives a Yankee woman, she knows how to make good cheese." She also sold a
                    great deal to our village people, especially to the tavern.
            As the country was sparsely settled, schools were scarce and teachers were ignorant and poorly
                    qualified for their business. I remember they were required to teach Reading, Spelling, Writing, and
                    Arithmetic as far as the rule of three.  Those qualifications
                    were written in an article of agreement, with the number of days to be taught and the price per
                    scholar. Sometimes they would state what kind of pay they would receive; if married they would take
                    some kind of produce or dry goods and groceries, etc.
            I well remember the first school I attended. It was at Eagle Village in a log house which had
                    formerly been a dwelling. The seats were benches, without any backs and sometimes too high for the
                    children's feet to touch the floor; no desk in front to lean upon. They bored holes in the
                    walls in which they put long, strong pins and placed a wide board on those pins, thus forming a
                    writing desk. In front was a bench to sit on, and while writing their backs were to the teacher.
            Our teacher was an old gray-headed man by the name of Boman. He was also a Methodist preacher. He
                    would let the pupils all study aloud, and when they studied their spelling lessons they could be
                    heard for a long distance. I remember very distinctly sitting by a girl by the name of Mary Beard,
                    much larger than myself. How much I was interested in hearing her repeat the alphabet! She would
                    say, "big A, little a, big B, little b," and so on to the end of the alphabet,
                    until she attracted the attention of the teacher, when he began to mimic her. She looked much
                    ashamed and then turned to her own lesson. I thought she was doing the right thing and that she was
                    a very wise girl to know all the alphabet, and I didn't know any of it. And this was a
                    sample of the schools and teacher we had for several years.
            A few years later an eastern man by the name of William Farlin came to our neighborhood, who was much
                    in advance of the former teachers. He first taught about a half a mile west of where Zionsville now
                    stands, and my older brothers and sisters went there all one winter and would almost freeze
                    sometimes. It was near two miles from home. I went there to summer schools. At one time it rained
                    too hard for us to go home and we scattered around among the children. I remember I and my older
                    sister went home with some little girls by the name of Rodman, all of whom have long since passed
                    on. I well remember how glad I was to get to go home with those little girls and what a jolly time
                    we had wading the branch that ran close by their house. We had 
                    to cross Eagle Creek going to and from school, and sometimes it got very high and dangerous to
                    cross. Mr. Farlin looked after us rainy times, that we crossed the creek safely. He afterwards moved
                    to Eagle Village and was our teacher for several years.
            Up to this date, 1841, all kinds or any kind of book that the parents happened to have were used.
                    Webster's Elementary Spelling Book was used for beginners for both spelling and reading.
                    Mr. Farlin first introduced a series of reading books called 
                        Worcester
                    's Readers. We used Webster's Speller, Kirkham's Grammar,
                    Fowler and Smiley's Arithmetic, and Olney's Geography. About the year 1848
                    Mc-Guffey's series were introduced, and 
                        Mitchell
                    's Geography, Butler's Grammar, and Ray's Arithmetic. Since
                    that time many changes have been made.
            The school government was then so different too. The teacher was termed the master, and as such he
                    posed, and generally kept two or three gads standing in the corner. Mr. Farlin first taught he was
                    the teacher and not the master. He also taught strict obedience.
            I will now tell you of the rise and fall of our village. Our village which first consisted of only a
                    few log houses and the postoffice soon increased in both population and business, until it became a
                    thriving little town. We had two taverns, one Odd Fellow's hall, two churches, a good
                    schoolhouse, three drygoods stores, one or two shoeshops, two blacksmith shops, several carpenter
                    shops, one tanyard, one sadlery, and other works of industry. Two doctors, and last but not least, a
                    salaratus factory. Salaratus was an alkali used as we now use soda. It was hard and lumpy and had to
                    be pulverized and dissolved in water before using.
            About the year 1846 a man by the name of James Armstrong came to our village and tried to run a
                    salaratus factory; but he knew better how to whip his wife than to make salaratus. The citizens got
                    tired of his wife-whipping and thought to put a stop to it. They collected together one night and
                    managed to get him out, when he discovered their intentions and became badly frightened and begged
                    piteously. They said his hair stood straight on his head. His wife finally came to his rescue. She
                    was Dutch, and talked very broken. She said, "Ments, if there be any ments among you, go to
                    your  homps, if you have any homps. Jamps is a gude and kint
                    husband. He directs me to the Bible in all I does." So of course they went to their homes
                    and left them to fight it out, but I don't think there was any more wife beating done while
                    they lived there.
            About the year 1849 a Mr. Gardner came to our village and succeded Mr. Armstrong in making salaratus.
                    He was from Buffalo, N. Y. He understood his busines and carried it on successfully for several
                    years, was a good citizen and had a nice family.
            About the year 1852 our present railroad known as the Big Four was built from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Lafayette
                    , and later, on to 
                        Chicago
                    , and Zionsville was laid out. As everybody wanted to go to the new railroad town, the
                    glory of our much loved village soon departed. The two taverns and churches were moved to
                    Zionsville, and also many of the dwelling houses. The ground on which they stood is now in
                    cultivated gardens.
            Our parents, like all pioneers, had to work very hard and taught their children to be industrious;
                    but with all their hardships and privations people enjoyed life then as much as they do now with all
                    their luxuries. They were always ready to lend a helping hand when needed and always ready to divide
                    any luxury they might chance to have, with their near neighbors. They would often go and spend an
                    evening with some neighbor and always take supper; and in turn, they would come to our house and
                    spend the evening and take supper; and thus they passed their long winter evenings. I have known my
                    parents to go three miles in a sled in the afternoon and stay till ten o'clock and then
                    return.
            Everybody had to wear homemade clothes, and you may be assured they did not wear out soon either.
                    They would spin the wool in summer to make clothes for winter, and spin flax in winter to make
                    clothes for summer. My older sister could always beat me spinning wool. She could spin sixteen cuts
                    a day, while I never could spin but twelve cuts; but I could always keep even with her spinning flax
                    or weaving.
            The people had gatherings of different kinds. The men had log-rollings, wood-dhoppings and
                    corn-huskings. The women had quiltings, apple-cuttings, and wool-pickings. Of course the opposite
                    sex were invited and they enjoyed a gala  day. The ladies of the
                    village always considered it a great treat to go to Mrs. Gregory's wool-pickings.
            It required a great deal of work to get the wool ready for the weaver. It was shorn from the sheep
                    sometime in May, then washed and picked by hand, then sent to the carding mill which was then at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , fourteen miles away. After carding into rolls, the process of spinning commenced. When
                    that was done, the yarn had to be all washed clean, then colored some color. For jeans, either blue
                    or brown. The brown was colored with walnut hulls. For dresses they used green, red, and blue, and
                    we thought we had very pretty dresses. Later on a man by the name of Lyons came to our vicinity and
                    built a carding mill a mile north of the village, but he did very poor work. He was succeeded by a
                    Mr. Lieb-hardt, who understood his business and did good work in carding, spinning, and weaving. The
                    same mill is now owned by his son, D. E. Liebhardt, who carries on his business very successfully
                    and keeps pace with the times.
            My father always kept a yoke of oxen and a cart. He sold a great deal of wood to the village people
                    and thus paid for store goods, shoe making, blacksmithing, etc. The oxen were so well trained that
                    when he wanted to yoke them, he would put the yoke on the off ox first, then with the bow in his
                    hand would motion to the other ox, calling him by name, and he would obediently walk under the yoke,
                    and that was all the harness they wore. The tongue of the cart was fastened to the yoke. The cart
                    bed was fastened by a pivot or hinge in the middle of the bed and when he wanted to unload the cart,
                    all he had to do was to unhook the cart bed from the tongue of the cart, when the bed would drop
                    back and the load would all go out at once.
            My father's barn, like the house, was made of logs. It had two apartments with a space
                    between, about twelve feet. This space had a good plank floor, made tight. There they threshed their
                    wheat and oats. This was done in winter, when cold and dry. My father always threshed his grain with
                    flails. Flails were two long sticks with the ends tied together with strong cord or rope. One would
                    stand at each end and pound away all day. How would men like that way of threshing wheat now?
            It was not much trouble to cook for the hands, as there  were
                    only two of then. Then it all had to be run through a wind mill. They did not often sow over five
                    acres, as that made enough for their bread. At a very early day the reap hook was used, but as far
                    back as I can remember the cradle was used.
            I well remember the first threshing machine I ever saw. It was in the year 1847. It was built on a
                    wagon, and was arranged so the motion of the wagon caused the machinery to work. They drove in a
                    circle and the straw dropped off while the wheat was caught in a large box below, which had to be
                    emptied about every round. Then it all had to be run through a fanning mill. Later on they got the
                    stationary machines, run by horse power, which both threshed and winnowed it.
            We always raised a patch of flax; about a half acre, sometimes more. It was a great deal of work to
                    take care of. It had to be all pulled up by the roots. Every child that had strength enough was
                    mustered in the service. Then the seed was threshed off and it was spread out in some grassy spot to
                    rot, which required about four weeks. Then it was taken up and put in a dry place, ready for the
                    flax break. After it was well broken it had to be dressed; that is, the woody part had to be beaten
                    off. This was done by holding the bundle, or as much as a man could hold in his hand, across an
                    upright board, prepared for the purpose, and beating with a wooden knife, made of some kind of hard
                    wood, generally hickory. It had to be beaten till all the woody part was gone, nothing left but the
                    fibre. Then it was finished by the hackle, ready for spinning. The hackle was made of smooth teeth
                    about four inches long and about as large around as an eight-penny nail. They were set in a board
                    about six inches square and about two feet long, to make it convenient to hold between the knees.
                    The flax was drawn through this hackle till it was all combed out nice and smooth, when it was ready
                    for the spinning wheel. The fibre that was combed out was called tow, and was sometimes spun to make
                    towels, bed-ticks, etc. The tow was also in great demand by the hunters, as they used it for wadding
                    in their guns. No hunter thought of starting out without his pocket full of tow.
            One may think that people did not have much time for sport, but the young folks always watched their
                    chances and occasionally took a day off for some kind of amusement. The  boys too were on the lookout for a day to hunt or fish. Wild game was
                    plentiful. Such as deer, 
                        turkey
                    , squirrel, coon, groundhogs and many other kinds. There was no end to the fish in Eagle
                    Creek. Fishing was their chief amusement. I remember at one time my two brothers, Benjamin and
                    Lewis, went fishing late in the afternoon. They had permission to stay a while after dark, as the
                    fish bite much better then, which they accordingly did. When they got ready to start for home, after
                    they had gone a short distance, their light, which was hickory bark torch, went out, and the night
                    being very dark and misting rain, they soon lost their way. After wandering around awhile, they
                    became discouraged and sat down in despair by a big oak tree, thinking they would have to stay there
                    all night, when to their joy they saw a light coming in the distance, which proved to be a man with
                    a lantern, on his way home from the village. They called to him and he readily went to them and took
                    them home, to the great joy of our parents who were becoming very anxious about them. At another
                    time when they went fishing, they were caught in a windstorm while passing through a deadening and
                    narrowly escaped being killed by falling timber.
            We also used to go root-digging, as there was ready sale for various kinds of roots, which were used
                    for medical purposes. Such as yellow root, snake root, lady slipper, ginseng, and many other kinds.
                    We dug the roots in the autumn. The woods would sometimes be full of women and children in pursuit
                    of these roots.
            I remember on one occasion, myself and two brothers, Benjamin and Lewis, went one afternoon to dig
                    roots. After hunting and playing around, our dog ran onto a blacksnake. I wanted to run and leave
                    Mister Snake to his freedom, but the boys and the dog were determined to kill him, which they did
                    after quite a combat. As we thought it quite a trophy to show at home, the boys tied a string around
                    its neck and started, as we thought, for home. But after wandering around a while we found that we
                    were lost. The woods then was a dense forest. Finally off at a distance we saw a clearing to which
                    we went and found a house, gladly dropping our snake in the forest, to learn our way home. We knew
                    the family that lived there and they put us on the right road home, which was two miles away.
            
            At that time orchards were scarce and apples hard to get. Sometimes a teamster would pass with apples
                    to sell. They came from some of the southern counties, which were settled much earlier than our
                    county, 
                        Boone
                    . They always had an apple on a stick at the front end of the wagon for a sign. Mother
                    bought some occasionally, but father soon set out an orchard and in a few years we had apples in
                    abundance. Wild fruit was plentiful, such as blackberries, much larger than we see now, plums,
                    grapes, and crabapples. Mother always kept preserves of some kind, nearly always crabapple
                    preserves. She dried blackberries and wild grapes, as that was all the way they knew for keeping
                    fruit at that time. She also made a good deal of pumpkin butter and dried pumpkin for pies. We
                    always made our own sugar and molasses from the sugar maples. Sugar making was a great treat to us
                    children, after being housed up with a cold winter.
            I have told you something of our hardships, privations, pleasures and amusements of our early pioneer
                    life. Now comes a more serious chapter. We worked on as I have told you through rough and smooth,
                    till the spring of 1847, when our father died with pneumonia. He was sick only three days, took his
                    bed Wednesday and died Friday at eleven o'clock. Sister Martha was then a little past two
                    years old and three others less than thirteen, so you can see our1 mother had a
                    great burden to bear. My brother James, then about twenty-four years of age, stayed at home and
                    settled up the business. He got permission of the court to sell some of the property at private
                    sale, and paid off what debts there were, and the farm was left undivided till the children were all
                    of age, and thus our mother was enabled to keep her home and also keep her family together and have
                    for them a comfortable living. We had all learned the value of industry and 
                        economy
                     and thus could help one another.
            The second year after my father's death, Brother Benjamin took charge of the farm, and was
                    more like a father than a brother. He was always kind and thoughtful. Mother still kept up her dairy
                    business and thus succeeded in rearing her children. Her greatest ambition was to raise her children
                    to be good and useful citizens, and she lived to see her prayers and efforts rewarded, as they were
                    all well situated and respected, and had good homes of their own before she died.  She died December 3rd, 1872, at the age of seventy-one. She joined the
                    Baptist church at the age of seventeen and remained a faithful member until her death. And through
                    her prayerful life and patience in afflictions she has gained the reward that awaits the righteous,
                    and passed through the Pearly Gates beyond the River.
            My father was also a member of the Baptist church, in politics a Whig. When quite a young man he was
                    under conviction and joined the Baptist church, and was making preparations to be baptized, when his
                    father (our grandfather), who was one of those most devout Scotch Methodists and would often stop by
                    the wayside to pray, wishing to lead his children in his own faith, and being decidedly opposed to
                    baptism by immersion, said to him, "Peter, think well before you take the step."
                    At this remark my father hesitated and became discouraged and remained out of the church until about
                    three years before his death. He was very industrious and would often work on the Sabbath, but never
                    required it of his children.
            One Sunday morning as was his custom, he took his axe on his shoulder and started for his clearing.
                    His way led past the garden, and while passing he heard the voice of prayer, and looking over among
                    the currant bushes, he saw his young daughter Mary, on her knees in her morning devotions. That
                    smote his conscience, so he went back, laid down his axe, and kept the Sabbath. The conviction never
                    left him and some time during that year he united with the Baptist church. Thus by the prayers of
                    his child was he led back to the Saviour.
            Notwithstanding the hardships of pioneer life, we all managed to get a moderately good education for
                    the times. James, my oldest brother, commenced teaching when about twenty years of age, and was a
                    very successful teacher for several years. Then he studied medicine and made quite a success in the
                    medical profession. Mary, my oldest sister, taught two terms of school, when failing health
                    prevented further work, and she died at the age of nineteen, in the year 1845. Brother Benjamin
                    taught several schools. Sister Martha also taught for several years. She taught one school year in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            At the age of seventeen I taught my first school at Eagle 
                    Village. I taught by subscription, received $1.25 per scholar. I afterward taught a good
                    many schools, some by subscription and some for public money. I never received over a dollar a day
                    for teaching a public school, and when by subscription $2.50 per scholar for a term of
                    sixty-five days. In early days the teacher had to make pens for the pupils out of goose quills. It
                    was quite an accomplishment to be a good pen-maker and good writer. Sometime before I quit teaching,
                    the steel pen was used, which was a great relief to teachers.
            My teaching was mostly summer work. I would commence about the first of April and close the last of
                    June. I continued teaching till the fall of 1861, when I was married, September 26th. To this union
                    were born five children, three boys and two girls. My girls died at the age of twenty-two each. God
                    who overrules all has received them, and I must not murmur or repine over my lot. I know that I have
                    much for which to be thankful, and leave these few pages for you to look over and when you think
                    your lot hard, think of the blessings you enjoy and the many good things you have which at your age
                    your ancestors never heard of.
            I have now nearly reached my three score years and ten. I have seen our beloved country in its
                    natural state of wild-ness and beauty as God's handiwork. He has given us a very beautiful
                    world to live in, but few of us appreciate it as we should, and like the Children of 
                        Israel
                     of old, are disposed to continualy murmur and find fault and fear we will not have
                    enough of this world's goods. But in all these long years we have never passed through one
                    in which we did not have enough of our needs.
            I have lived to see our beloved country bud and blossom as the rose. The pioneer cabin has passed
                    away and in its place stand good frame or brick buildings, some almost stately mansions. I have also
                    seen the mud and corduroy roads of previous years turned into nice, solid, gravel roads, and the
                    streams all spanned by good iron bridges. By our present mode of travel we can go hundreds of miles
                    in a few hours, when by the old mode described in the beginning of this sketch it would require as
                    many days, and perhaps more. Our daily mail is now delivered at our gate. Our ancestors thought it a
                    great blessing to get mail twice a week.
            We are told in God's word, "Trust in the Lord and do good  and verily thou shalt be fed." I now leave you this little
                    narrative, hoping God will bless you all, and that we may all meet around His Great White Throne,
                    and there be crowned heirs of His Kingdom.
         
         
         
            Pioneer Stories of the Calumet
            By J. WILLIAM LESTER, Historical Secretary, 
                        Lake County
                     Old Settlers' and Historical Society
            After years of neglect, the "ugly duckling" of the Calumet and Kankakee swamp
                    region has come into its own; 
                        Lake county
                     finally has gained a place in the foremost ranks of progressive counties of Indiana.
            Over a century had elapsed since the first military stations had been established on the present
                    sites of 
                        Vincennes
                     and 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    ; the State Historical society, with headquarters at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was starting on its career; and the population of the State had reached the
                    third-of-a-million mark, when the first permanent white settler, following the old Pottowatomie
                    trail through the wilderness, selected a spot on the banks of Deep river for
                    his future home.
            During the following year, 1834, Solon Robinson and others settled at what is now Crown Point; and
                    three years later, when the county was regularly organized, there were still but few inhabitants.
            Now that the rivers have been dredged, the swamps drained, and the dunes converted into popular
                    natural parks, early settlers, and they are numerous throughout the country, vie with one another in
                    relating their experience of early days, and their observations of remarkable changes wrought within
                    their memory. A number of their stories are given herein.
            MRS. ELINOR PHILLIPS (Recorded
                    July, 1922)
            I was born in 
                        Green county
                    , York state, ninety years ago the 28th day of last March. My father was a carpenter and
                    a jack of all trades, and he came west to work. I was probably about three years old when we started
                    for 
                        Chicago
                    . We came by boat as there were no railroads. We went from 
                        Chicago
                     to 
                        Michigan City
                     and were there probably two or three years. Then in 1835 or '36 we came to 
                        Lake county
                    . We started with ox teams for 
                        Illinois
                    , and followed the old Sauk trail, now called the Lincoln Highway, but the roads were so
                         bad that the oxen got mired, and we stopped at the prairie
                    about two miles southwest of Merrillville. Then we built a log cabin up in the woods.
            The first land cost ten shillings an acre. When my father made his first claim he got 150 acres;
                    afterwards he got other claims until we got about 500 acres altogether.
            We had plenty of wild berries, and we used salt meat, game and corn-bread. We used to take wheat, fan
                    and clean it, then cook it the way you do breakfast food now, and it made a good dish. We had to do
                    the best we could. At first we had no lights but a twisted rag that we burned in a dish of oil. I
                    helped my mother dip candles lots of times. We would heat the tallow and put it into some water then
                    dip the wick up and down until it got as big as we wanted it.
            In them days we had a loom and would spin the wool. We had to take our wool way down to LaPorte, and
                    they carded it at the mill, then we brought it back and wove it. I have sold more yarn than you
                    could shake a stick at.
            I have seen piles of Indians. They camped out near our home—the old log house where 
                        Rush
                     is, on the Erie railroad. They came to the house begging for things to eat. They traded
                    venison for pork and salt meat, and we gave them iron kettles, potatoes and meal. Sometimes we would
                    get leggings and other things trimmed in beads. I often saw the women carrying babies on their back.
                    We used to be afraid of them, and when they came to the house we got where mother was, but they
                    never hurt us. We were glad when they went away.
            There was lots of game, and when there was snow on the ground my brothers would go to the prairie
                    this side of Crown Point to hunt deer. My oldest brother would put a sheet or something white over
                    his head; the other would go up on a high hill near the prairie and make a lot of noise, then when
                    the deer came near enough my oldest brother would shoot them. They killed lots of deer every winter.
            I went to school about three different terms when I was fifteen or sixteen years old. There was a
                    private school where the Nicholson farm is. David Fowler owned the land, and they put three log
                    houses together and made a school house. We had no church, but I went to Sunday school at
                    Butts' in their log house.
            
            There were hardly any white people around here—Balls lived about a mile and a half
                    southwest of Merrillville, and there were a few scattered settlers. We used to get together and have
                    husking bees. The old settlers would cut their corn and set it up, then call on their neighbors to
                    help husk it. They would serve cider and a cup of tea, and sometimes Johnnie-cake pancakes. I tell
                    you honestly I believe people enjoyed themselves better in them days than they do now. When the old
                    settlers were together one was as good as the other and people took a good deal of comfort with you.
            My father could make most anything. He was a builder and a shoemaker, and I was married in the shoes
                    he made. My two sons are living here with me. Edwin, the oldest, will be 73 on October 23d. I help
                    them to keep house, and don't get away very much, but I like to attend the, old
                    settlers' meetings. I used to go to 
                        Chicago
                     with father when he drove over with his oxen to sell grain, but I ain't been
                    there for a long time—not since the World's Fair.
            ALFRED ANDERSON (Recorded August 12, 1922)
            I am the oldest living pioneer of Miller. I was born in 
                  Providence, Rhode Island
               , on the 8th of
                    November, 1855. I was two years old when we moved to Hobart; and we came here to Miller in the fall
                    of 1864. We moved with an ox team and wagon, and we had all our belongings in one load. We started
                    about ten o'clock in the forenoon and got here about sundown. There was only one bridge
                    across the marsh between Tolleston and Baillytown and we came over at Dock Siding, which is about
                    three miles east of here.
            There wasn't a house in Miller, with the exception of a boarding house, that the
                        Lake Shore railroad was building, and a little frame cottage a fellow by
                    the name of Alby was building. The cottage is still standing today and it is the only one of the old
                    buildings left. It stands east of the jail and right back of it. A fellow by the name of Green
                    bought it and shortly after sold it to Augusta Anderson. John Long had a shanty and ran a saloon;
                    Jim Tansy lived in a dugout in the sand hills, and Quinn lived in a box car. Both Tansy and Quinn
                    worked on the section. John Carleston went up  and stayed in the
                    hills. Peter Anderson came in the winter of the same year that we came.
            Father was a contractor, and we moved here to take up the timber for the Lake
                    Shore railroad, the only road that ran through here then. There were no coal-burners in
                    them days. He took out 4,000 cars of four-foot wood. We didn't expect to stay, but just as
                    father decided to go he noticed that there was an awful lot of long white moss growing on the marsh
                    south of the railroad. It was used to wrap around trees for shipping. They raked it up with potato
                    hooks and shipped some to a man named Hicks, at 
                  Dayton, Ohio
               , some to
                            
                  Bloomington, Illinois
               , and some as far as 
                        Florida
                    . He must have taken up at least 500 car loads. We pressed and crated it. He got
                    $50 a carload, $3 a crate, $2 a barrel, and 25 cents a sack for it.
                    A crate would weigh about 175 pounds. When we got into good patches we could get a carload a day,
                    but sometimes we could only get a carload in four or five days. Father was at that thirteen or
                    fourteen years. The moss grew along the edge of the banks and extended out into the water. I have
                    seen it grow ten inches long. We found it as far east as Baillytown. It takes seven years before it
                    grows back again. You would have to hunt to find any now, but I believe I could find you some.
            We had an awful lot of cattle and I have traveled as far as Pine Station to Baillytown gathering them
                    up. I got my first gun when I was thirteen years old; my father bought me a double-barrel shot gun.
                    I hunted, trapped and fished a good deal. There was lots of game—wolf, fox, deer, wild
                    turkeys and pigeons. I have shot pigeons until we were sick of them. I saw flights that would last
                    for three hours. And ducks; there was all kinds of ducks! Wolves were thick. Their runaway was along
                    the ridge just east of there where you go under the C. I. & S. tracks. I have seen as many
                    as twenty in a drove. They were smaller than the timber wolf but larger than the prairie wolf, and
                    seemed to be a cross between them. When I was about fifteen years of age I was corralled by wolves
                    between the Grand Calumet river and the lake. It was about nine
                    o'clock in the evening. I had my hunting dog, a mixed bird and shepherd. He would round up
                    game and bring it to me. I was in a little hollow, standing among a bunch of jack pines, and had a
                    little squirrel  riflle. The dog tracked the wolves and brought
                    the whole flock up to me. I was scared, but shot one, and the rest turned tail and fled. The next
                    day I was out on the south side of the river, and about a mile north of where Aetna is, when the dog
                    went down into a hollow and raised a wolf that had been among the vines. I shot the wolf in the hip
                    and it jumped into the river and swam across with the dog right after him, but he didn't
                    get far for the dog got him as he was climbing the opposite bank. We didn't bother with a
                    gun to hunt rabbits, for there would be as many as three rabbits at a time in a hollow log, and all
                    we had to do was to plug up one end of the log and take them out.
            I was coming home one night with a drove of cattle and as they were walking along the edge of the
                    slough right east of Peterson's Crossing I saw about fifty mallards. I had a small shot gun
                    and sneaked around and killed eight with one shot.
            There were quite a few Indians. They came down from 
                        Michigan
                     and were here every fall for about four years after we came. They belonged to the same
                    tribe as old lady Howe. They used to camp in the woods about a half mile north of Baillytown, at the
                    south edge of the dunes. The first Indians I saw was one day when father was cutting wood in front
                    of our log shanty. It was about a block northeast of where the Lake Shore depot
                    is. He was chopping away when all at once four Indians came up. They were all blanket Indians. One
                    of them wanted a chew of tobacco. In them days we had nothing but navy plug that came in long
                    pieces. Father had taken a chew off of his plug. He handed it to the buck, and the fellow pulled out
                    his hunting knife, cut two-thirds of the plug off, stuck it in his pocket and handed the rest back.
                    That made the old gent mad, so he says to him: "If you are that hungry for tobacco take the
                    other piece, but never come here again."
            The buck took it and only grunted, as they always do, and then they left. The next day they came back
                    and wanted something to eat, so mother gave them some bread, pork and two crocks of milk. They took
                    it but never said "Thank you." They came again the day after and wanted more to
                    eat. Some were in the doorway and some were right inside, but she took the broom and chased them all
                    out. She said: "Go to work! That's the way my husband has to do."  They never came back to the house, but we saw them often in the
                    woods. They used to hunt as far as Whiting, and if they were overtaken at night they would strike
                    camp anywhere. They would build a fire, roll up in their blankets and lay out in the open. They
                    camped all along the dunes. The men used rifles and shot guns for hunting, but the young boys had
                    bows and arrows. I remember between here and Baillytown the Lake Shore road had
                    a siding about four miles east of Miller, and the Indian boys there would shoot the lights out of
                    the cabooses. The Indians disappeared from here about 1869.
            The only bear I ever saw was a small black one. That was when I was about fifteen. A boy by the name
                    of Andrew Wall, of Hobart, was visiting us, and we went out to get wild grapes for wine. We were in
                    the hills about a mile and a half west of Miller and had climbed up in a big jack pine. We heard a
                    noise down in the hollow and then we saw him coming right towards the tree we were in. We got down
                    in a hurry and hiked for the beach. I don't know how far he followed us, but we never saw
                    him after that. In 1865 a half-breed, French and Indian, named Allen Dutcher shot a black bear right
                    down close to the river, just about a half a mile from where the Grand Calumet bridge is, and on
                    this side of the river. I have heard of wildcat, panther and lynx here but never saw any, and
                    don't believe there were any after we came.
            Our first school was in 1867, when a German by the name of Osterman came here from the head of Long
                    lake, 
                        Porter county
                    , and built a five-room house, with a saloon on one side and a school on the other. Mrs.
                    Davis, from 
                        Michigan
                    , was our first teacher. Her husband was captain of a boat on the lake. Sometimes when
                    we were in school thirty or forty wood-choppers would come to the saloon and start a fight. We could
                    hear them bumping against the walls, then the teacher would tell us all to get out and go home.
            There was all kinds of timber aand lots of big trees. I have seen pines up to 35 inches through. It
                    was cut down and sold to the farmers or shipped out. John Charleston, Pete Peterson and a fellow
                    named Bergstrom, were lumber contractors, and there was a big sawmill about three miles  east of here. It burned down about forty-two years ago. There was
                    another one at 
                        Chesterton
                     called the Blackwell mill. I started to fish with my father when he got his first
                    seine. It was a forty-rod seine. A fellow from Hobart had a 106-rod seine, and I saw him when he got
                    over 6,000 pounds of white fish in one haul. He got over a hundred sturgeon, and one weighed 180
                    pounds. It was the largest fish I ever saw caught in the lake. The best price we could get for fish
                    was one cent a pound, and we were glad to get rid of them for that.
            
                    Alfred Anderson, son of Magnes Anderson, is a carpenter and stationary engineer; he now builds
                        cabs for locomotives. He was married to Anna F. Norstrom, of Sweden. Their children are: Walter,
                        Harriet, Arthur, Frances, Cora, and Florence. Mr. Anderson resides in a picturesque hollow among
                        the dunes west of 
                            Lake
                         avenue.
                
            POTTAWATOMIE TRAILS OF LAKE
                        COUNTY By ARTHUR E. PATTERSON
            
            During the early part of our settlement at Lake Station, a small band of
                    Pottawatomie Indians paid semi-annual visits to their burying grounds on the old Stockwell and
                    Buddie places, only a short distance from where now stands the 
                        East Gary
                     town hall. I soon got to know them, especially Pokagon. I remember his telling Mrs.
                    Evenson, Mrs. Hurley and myself of the famous Pottawatomie trail coming from the east and northeast,
                    passing through Buchanan, 
                        Michigan
                    , striking 
                        Laporte county
                     near 
                        New Carlisle
                    , then running in a southwesterly direction through Laporte, 
                        Chesterton
                    , Baillytown and Crisman to old Lake Station, a division point
                    where there were workshops and dancing and burial grounds.
            From this division, or terminal point, two trails led westerly. One crossed the Little
                        Calumet river at Wolf's farm, passing through Aetna and Miller, until it
                    reached the Grand Calumet, which it crossed, then ran in a westerly direction, zigzagging between
                    the lake and the river until it reached 
                        Ft. Dearborn
                    . The other trail proceeded through the town of Liverpool, where there was a noted
                    dancing ground, crossed Deep river at this place and ran to Wiggins Point (now
                    Merrillville). Two trails led from Wiggins' Point: one passed through the sites of
                    Schererville and Dyer and crossed the state line and the other passed through Crown Point to Cedar
                        
                    
                        Lake
                     and entered 
                  Will county, Illinois
               , a short distance north of the 
                        Will
                     and 
                        Kankakee county
                     line.
            The Indian who visited Lake Station, and from whom the writer received the
                    information concerning the trails, was Simon Pokagon, chief of the tribe which long occupied the
                    region around the southern and eastern shores of 
                        Lake
                        Michigan
                    . At the age of fourteen he began the study of English, which he successfully mastered.
                    Possibly no full blooded Indian ever acquired a more thorough knowledge of the English language. It
                    seems proper at this moment to mention that in 1897 he wrote an article for a 
                        New York
                     magazine on The Future of the Red Man, in which he said: 
                        Oft in the stillness of the night, when all Nature seems asleep about me, there comes a
                            gentle rapping at the door of my heart. I open it, and a voice inquires, 'Pokagon,
                            what of your people? What will be their future?' My answer is, 'Mortal man
                            has not the power to draw aside the veil of unborn time to tell the future of his race. That
                            gift belongs to the Divine alone. But it is given to him to closely judge the future by the
                            present and the past.'
                    
            
            During his visit to Lake Station in 1873 Pokagon spoke of the practice of the
                    palefaces in plowing over and digging up the remains of his people and scattering their bones as
                    they would those of dogs. That practice, he said, had caused him to decide never to return to the
                    desecrated burial ground of his ancestors. That promise was kept, and he never was seen at
                        Lake Station thereafter. He died on January 28, 1899, at his home in
                            
                  Allegan county, Michigan
               , at the age of seventy, and was buried in Graceland cemetery, 
                        Chicago
                    .
            JOHN BROWN, SOLDIER, RANCHMAN, BANKER Crown Point, Indiana (October 14, 1922)
            I was born in a log cabin at Southeast Grove, on the 7th of October, 1840. My father, Alexander F.
                    Brown, was of Scotch ancestry and was a native of 
                        New York
                     state. He came to Eagle Creek township in 1837, and was killed in a runaway twelve
                    years later, leaving a family of five children, of which I was the oldest.
            As the country was new, I got very little education; in fact I attended school but three months a
                    year. My first  teacher was Miss Cynthia Wallace. The school was
                    conducted in a log building at Southeast Grove. The rough walls, puncheon floor and plain oak
                    benches looked quite different from the schools of today. There were wide cracks in the floor, and I
                    often saw bull snakes three to five feet long crawl through them and up and down the inside of the
                    walls. As the door sill was on a level with, the ground, frogs and toads would hop into the room.
                    One day I saw a toad under my bench. I took my quill pen and gave him a little tap and he made a
                    squeaking noise. The teacher caught me at it, took me up to the middle of the floor and gave me a
                    trouncing.
            There were a great many massassauga rattlers on the prairies. They were small, generally a foot or
                    two long, but were very poisonous. I often ran across them but was never bitten. My mother used to
                    tell about my brother, Barringer, crawling about in the yard and getting near a rattler. She was
                    badly frightened but managed to gather him up before the snake had a chance to strike.
            Game was plentiful; there were ducks, geese, sand hill cranes and deer. The deer kept together in the
                    winter, and I have seen as many as forty in a herd. I killed a few, but I generally hunted wild
                    fowl. I used to keep the game and cattle out of the wheat fields for father, and for that he would
                    take me to 
                        Chicago
                     where he sold his grain. I considered it a great treat to go there. It took us four
                    days to make the trip; two going and two returning. We generally stopped at the Halfway-House on
                    Ridge road, near Ross. 
                        Chicago
                     didn't seem much larger than Crown Point does now.
            In the summer I worked on the neighbor's farms, helped William and Thomas Fisher to gather
                    broom corn, and drove oxen. The first man I worked for was my uncle, William Brown. I drove oxen for
                    him at twenty-five cents a day, the regular wages for boys at that time. We broke the oxen by
                    hitching a well-trained team in the front, a fairly well-trained team in the rear and the unbroken
                    teams in the middle. It was a lively job but we managed it all right.
            On Sundays, before my father's death, the whole family went regularly to the Presbyterian
                    church at Indian Town, now Hebron. We would take our luncheon along and eat it in the wagon.
                    Reverend Blaine, our pastor, went to 
                        California
                     about the time gold was discovered there.
            
            Among the old settlers that I knew were: Solon Robinson, John G. Earle, Ely and Dan Sigler, Maria
                    Gibson and Reverend Timothy Ball. I often saw Robinson, but wasn't well acquainted with
                    him. About 1834 he built a log cabin near the place where the courthouse now stands. His cabin is
                    supposed to have been the first one built on the site of Crown Point. The Earles were pioneers of
                    Liverpool and Hobart. I knew George Earle well, as I did a good deal of business with him. In 1902
                    he gave me a gold watch which I am still carrying. We went through the Knight Templar lodge
                    together. He was a tall man, had lots of force and acquired considerable property around Liverpool
                    and Hobart. Ely and Dan Sigler kept a store at 
                        Hebron
                     at a very early date. I knew Mrs. Maria Gibson and often stopped at her tavern, which
                    was built on the present site of 
                        Gary
                    . She was a fine lady. The Ball family were early settlers of Cedar
                    lake. Timothy Ball was a preacher and writer. He wrote a History of 
                            Lake County
                        , The 
                            Lake
                         of the Recti Cedars and other books. He preached at a church in 
                        Shelby
                    , and I often saw him walking there from Crown Point, a distance of sixteen or seventeen
                    miles.
            When the Civil war broke out I enlisted in company I, Fifth Indiana cavalry, and served under General
                    Stoneman. I was captured and imprisoned at 
                        Andersonville
                    . There were thirty-six thousand prisoners there at one time and thirteen thousand seven
                    hundred and nineteen were buried there. It was seven months before we were liberated by General
                    Stone-man's command, and I was without a change of clothing during that entire time. After
                    three years at the front, during which time I marched with Sherman to the sea and took part in
                    several battles, I returned to Crown Point.
            Before the war our family had no buggies or carriages. I worked for low wages and got but little
                    schooling. What education I now have I got since I grew to manhood. Soon after my return from the
                    South, I was nominated for county treasurer. I ran against Honorable B. Woods, for the nomination,
                    and against J. S. Holton, for the election. I won by ninety votes over Holton, who was my
                    daughter-in-law's father. There was little opposition the second term and I was re-elected
                    without difficulty. When I first took the office I could hardly write a tax receipt, but after
                    serving two terms  as county treasurer, I served for the same
                    length of time as auditor.
            In 1874 some strangers came in from 
                        New Castle
                    , Indiana, and started The First National bank of Crown Point, which was the first bank
                    started in 
                        Lake county
                    . But they soon got into financial difficulties and sold out to a number of
                    stockholders, including myself, at sixty cents on the dollar. The first president was Judge David
                    Turner. He held the office for two or three years. Then I was elected and have been president ever
                    since. I frequently go to 
                        Gary
                    , as I am president of the Commercial Securities company which has its offices there. My
                    son Neil looks after my interests in the bank here at Crown Point and I spend a great deal of time
                    on my ranch near 
                        Shelby
                    . I have 6,000 acres along the Kankakee river. It was nearly all
                    under water until about twenty years ago when it was dredged. I paid a fair price for a part of it,
                    but some I got for almost nothing. The land is now worth from a hundred to a hundred and fifty
                    dollars an acre. I use it mostly for grazing purposes and my son and I have eight hundred and fifty
                    head of cattle on it now, but I get good crops of corn, oats and rye. I have tried several kinds of
                    hay but find that blue grass grows best.
            Scattered about on the ranch there are a few sand hills and wooded elevations known as
                    "islands." A few rods east of my home is what is called Curve
                    island, and on this island is the Indian Battle Ground. Until recently there were marks
                    of a very old fortification. It was circular in form and covered three or four acres. There were
                    what appeared to be pits, trenches and embankments. The trenches, when I first saw them., were about
                    one and a half feet deep. There must have been many battles fought there for the surface is littered
                    with flint chips and clam shells, and when I was a boy my boy friends and I would dig into the sand
                    mounds and find skeletons. We unearthed about a half dozen, all of which had been buried in an erect
                    position. They had their knees drawn up under their chin and their hands back of their head. There
                    were numerous arrow heads and stone hatchets in the sand, but none with the skeletons. Last week
                    while excavating for the foundation of a cattle shed on the island one of the workmen turned up a
                    stone hatchet which had been lying about two feet under the surface. It must have lain there a long
                         time. I have talked with some of our oldest pioneers and
                    none knows anything about the origin of the old fortification.
            Note. That Mr. Brown has foresight, is evidenced by an article he contributed thirty-eight years ago,
                    for a book entitled, 
                        
                            Lake County
                        , 188b. Under the caption, The Kankakee River, its
                    Pecularities, Marsh Lands, and Islands, he wrote: "It is only a question of time when these
                    lands will all be drained, as the Kankakee valley has a mean elevation of
                    ninety feet above 
                        Lake
                        Michigan
                     and 160 feet above the waters of the Wabash river; and lying as
                    they do at the very doors of 
                        Chicago
                    , the greatest stock and grain market in the world, it would be strange if they long
                    remain in their present almost worthless condition." J. W. L.
         
         
         
            Pennville
            IDA HELEN MCCARTY
            
            Pennville, an isolated farmer's town ten miles from nearest railroad, is located on a high
                    bluff on the east bank of the Salimonia river. It is justly proud of its sturdy
                    Hicksite Quaker founders, the Samuel Grisell family, and of the heritage left the town by the colony
                    of talented Quakers that came in to people the new settlement. Pennville is in remembrance of
                    William Penn. Since its origin, in 1836, a desire for learning has characterized the citizens of
                    Pennville. The early families were from 
                  Delaware,
                            Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia
                and 
                        Ohio
                    .
            In 1837 the first school was "kept" by Levi Johnson, in the log Hicksite church
                    which stood on the knoll, later occupied by the white 
                        Quaker
                     church, and today by the Arnold and Engler grain elevator. Across the road from this
                    knoll is the old Hicksite Quaker burying-ground.
            One year after the opening of this 
                        Quaker
                     school the enterprising Methodists founded a church in the new town–a church
                    destined to do great things for the town and for the country at large. In a few years men and women
                    from the settlement were making themselves heard in church and school affairs, lodge work and even
                    in the administration of business in the capitol. Isaac Underwood's name stands out
                    prominently in this last. Many times he held the offices of representative and senator from this
                    district. The bill making possible the Belt Line railroad at 
                        Indianapolis
                     was introduced by him.
            Pennville's second school was a log town where now stands the residence of Lee Gibble. Hiram
                    Gregg is best remembered of all the teachers of this school. Later he became a noted nurseryman, and
                    it was he who planted the trees along the long lane leading up to the Penn township school of today;
                    also the evergreens and the fruit orchard of the present school campus, and the great apple orchard
                    now owned by his son Warren Gregg, west of the school building. But the third school, the white
                    frame building that stood in the center of the town, was the foundation on which rests all later
                    history of the place.
            
            Living throughout Indiana, 
                  Ohio, Michigan, Illinois
                and other western states are white-haired men and women, once urchins
                    in this old frame school. Not one of these but remembers the home village of Pennville (sometimes
                    called "Camden" in those days) with a pride and a love bordering on reverence, and
                    it is a fact that nearly all of these old-time citizens, when dead, will be brought back home for
                    burial.
            Among the old Pedagogues who rang the hand bell here and (perhaps) wielded the hickory gad are:
                    Nelson Sawyer, Sherman McDaniel, Josiah V. Jones and his wife Elmira B. Jones, Joseph Boyd, William
                    Hiatt, Rebecca Boles, Decatur Barr, Margaret Grisell, Sarah Janny Bailey and Elizabeth McCoy. The
                    four last named teachers are still living in Pennville. All of them are active citizens, full of
                    hears and full of honors.
            In 1872 a two-story brick building replaced the white frame school. At that time this was considered
                    a fine structure. For thirty-nine years it was the glory of the town.
            Today, living throughout the 
                        United States
                    , are men noted in every honorable profession who, as boys, used to slide down the
                    balusters of this school, do their sums on the blackboards and play baseball and recess games in the
                    great, shady campus.
            This school operated from 1872 till 1894 without a commissioned high school, although many high
                    school subjects were taught. Students wishing to obtain higher education in those days attended
                    business schools at 
                  Richmond, Ft. Wayne, Muncie
               
                    arid 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Dozens of them went to 
                        Valparaiso
                     college, Holbrook Normal, 
                  Lebanon, Ohio
               . Occasionally a few went to the University
                    of 
                        Michigan
                    , Indiana university or Earlham college.
            The list of teachers of this famous school is a noble one; many of them still reside in Pennville; a
                    great many of them live in other Indiana towns. What the pupils of this school did and what they
                    passed on to the younger scholars is the basis of this article.
            For the excellency of the work done here, much credit must be given the superintendents who labored
                    so long to obtain a commission. Many of them have since won fame and fortune in various walks of
                    life. They are: Tom Acre, Will Sibray (now Commissioner of Immigration, Pittsburg, Pa.), Jimmie
                    Ferris (who became a noted preached of the North Indiana 
                    Methodist conference and later a missionary to Africa), L. C. Chamberlain, John Jan (a prominent
                    insurance man at 
                        Fortville
                    , Indiana), Daniel Boyd and Trueman Boyd (the latter a physician and the founder of the 
                        Twin Falls city
                     hospital, 
                  Twin Falls, Idaho
               ).
            The first graduating class of the new commissioned high school in 1894 consisted of five members:
                    Edward E. Emmons (now of 
                        Portland
                    , Indiana), 0. 0. Emmons Joi Tonopah, Nevada), Ashley Cash (of
                    Hoodriver, 
                        Oregon
                    ), Vannie Walton (of Kenty, 
                        Oregon
                    ), and Charles Underwood, son of Isaac Underwood mentioned above.
            Charles Underwood completed the course at 
                        Butler
                     college and then took post-graduate work at Yale, holding two degrees form each
                    university. He was ordained minister of the Church of Christ and later accepted the chair of Sacred
                    History at 
                        Butler
                     college, which position he held until his death a few years ago. As the Pied
                    Piper's melody led the children of Hamelin, so this thirst for knowledge kept drawing the
                    youth of Pennville to business school, to normal and to university. The perseverance and the success
                    of Charles Underwood intensified the ambition of his comrades in the "old red
                    brick" schoolhouse.
            The very remarkable statement concerning this little village is authentic, coming as it does from the
                    records of Indiana university: Pennville, Indiana, sends more students to schools of higher learning
                    than any other town of its size and population in the states of Indiana or 
                        Michigan
                    . Students from this town have registered in West Point, Yale, 
                  Columbia, Boston
               
                    Theological, State Normal of 
                        Virginia
                    , Carnegie Tech., Swarthmore, 
                        Ohio
                     State university, 
                        Wooster
                    , Oberlin, the Western, the Schuster- 
                        Martin
                     school of dramatic art, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , O., 
                        Oxford
                     for Women, 
                        Cincinnati
                     university, Ada university, University of 
                        Michigan
                    , Earlham, DePauw, Purdue, 
                        Hanover
                    , Taylor university, Indiana university, 
                        Chicago
                     university, Northwestern, University of 
                        Illinois
                    , Monmouth college, University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , University of 
                        Colorado
                    , University of 
                        Denver
                    , University of 
                  California, Idaho
                university, Lincoln Memorial university
                    and the academies of Culver and Sweetwater, 
                        Tennessee
                    .
            In 1911 the old red brick was torn down and many loads of its material found themselves
                    "linked with a new race, a  new age," as
                    Kipling would say, in the modern Penn township school on Hiram Griggs hill, in
                    the western part of town. Here, from the laboratory window, one may gaze eastward across the town
                    and see the rise of ground where once stood the first log meeting school nearly 87 years ago. What a
                    volume of history is folded back in those intervening years.
            The present school is not strictly consolidated, there being four rural schools in Penn township.
                    Eighty children are transported to Pennville by auto truck. The building is thoroughly modern in
                    every respect, and the departments of manual training, home economics and business are well
                    equipped. The school contains 17 class rooms.
            The township library on the first floor of the building contains nearly 1700 volumes, besides
                    reference works, supplementary books and magazines. This is in charge of three persons appointed by
                    the judge of 
                        Jay County
                     circuit court. A regular librarian who is a member of the Indiana State library board
                    opens the library to the public every afternoon of the school week. A large gymnasium and
                    basket-foall hall, built entirely by students under the direction of former Supt. 0. B. Carmichael,
                    stands a few rods south and west of the school. This building will seat 400 people.
            Everything in Pennville centers about the school. Here are held all the teacher's meetings,
                    entertainments, theatricals, debates and spelling bees, musicals, moving pictures, lectures,
                    speeches, basket dinners and many other occasions intended to bring patrons, pupils and teachers
                    together. There is an extensive playground with the school which in vacation is used for a picnic
                    ground.
            There have graduated from Pennville high school, since 1894, 273 students. Of this number, 146 have
                    taught school, 216 attended business schools, normals or universities, 53 graduated from
                    universities, 35 did post-graduate work, 9 are physicians, 5 are nurses, 28 moved away during high
                    school senior year, graduating elsewhere. Of this number 20 attended colleges; 12 students are at
                    present attending universities.
            The class of 1906 was the banner university class. Pauline Place, DePauw, spent five years in 
                        Japan
                    , taught in the Methodist girls' school at Naga Saki and graduated from the
                    Tokio  language school. She toured 
                        China
                     in company with her sister Olive Place, vocal teacher in the Kwassui school. During the
                    past summer Pauline Place delivered 59 addresses and lectures in as many Indiana cities in the
                    interests of foreign missionary work. She went to 
                        Boston
                     in February, 1922, where she will study for one year in the M. E. theological school.
                    She then expects to return to 
                        Japan
                     as teacher of languages. (2) Edgar Grisell, Indiana university, is in the insurance
                    business at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana. (3) Frank Sawyer, Clark college, is professor in that institution. (4)
                    Susannah Gregg, Swarthmore, is a farmer's wife, Pennville. (5) Walter Lewis, Indiana
                    university, is in the secret service, located at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . (6) Theodore Davis, Purdue, is a Pennville farmer. (7) Almeda Mason, Marion normal,
                    Earlham, is a farmer's wife, Pennville. (8) Fay Edmundson, The Western (
                            
                  Oxford, Ohio
               ) University of 
                        Illinois
                    , taught domestic science in Highland Park high school, and at 
                  Champaign, Illinois
               , was county agent at 
                  Kankakee, Illinois
               , now at
                            
                  Racine, Wisconsin
               . (9) Edgar Hiatt, Indiana university, Indiana medical,
                    practiced in 
                        Portland
                    , Ind., with Dr. Schwartz. Went with the 91st Division to 
                        France
                     and 
                        Germany
                     as surgeon. Is now located in the Provident hospital building in Pennville.
            Pennville boys who have chosen the medical profession are: W. C. Horn, of 
                        Cincinnati
                     medical college (retired); Trueman Boyd, of Twin Falls, 
                        Idaho
                    ; Roy De Weese, of 
                        Hartford City
                    , Indiana (these three were not Pennville high school graduates); Walter Place, Indiana
                    university, Indiana medical, now at 
                        Hartford City
                    ; Harvey W. Millery, Indiana university, now at Great Lakes naval training school; 
                        Howard
                     Jones, Indiana university, Indiana medical, now at 
                        Salimonia
                    ; Lee Heller, Indiana university, 
                        Rush
                     medical, now at 
                        Dunkirk
                    ; J. S. Hickman, University of 
                  Wisconsin, Rush
                medical, was physician for
                    the Studebaker corporation, 
                        South Bend
                    , with Dr. C. E. Caylor, of the 
                        Wells County
                     hospital, now with the 
                        United States
                     army (did not attend Pennville schools, but family resided here); Zell Walker, Indiana
                    university, Indiana medical, now with the Methodist hospital corps of physicians; Harry Gray,
                    Indiana university, Indiana medical, died in 
                        France
                    ; Harold Caylor, Indiana university, 
                        Rush
                     medical, Mayo Bros.  hospital,
                            
                  Rochester, Minn.
               , will locate in 
                        Bluffton
                    ; Trueman Caylor, Indiana university, 
                        Rush
                     medical; Russel Horn, University of 
                        Michigan
                    -Vet., at Fiatt, Ind.
            A partial list of Pennville students who are now wideawake citizens in various parts of the 
                        United States
                    : (1) Charles Jones, 
                        Valparaiso
                    , mayor of Sierra Madre, 
                        California
                    . (2) Prof. Elmer Jones, 
                        Valparaiso
                    , Earlham, Monmouth college, University of 
                  Colorado, Columbia
                university,
                    Leipsig, was professor of phycology at 
                        Virginia
                     State normal for 6 years; professor of philosophy at Indiana university for 6 years;
                    director of the school of education of Northwestern for past 7 years; was sent by the 
                        United States
                     government (in the interests of the M. E. Church) to the country of Albania to devise
                    for that nation a system of higher education. He is the author of several scientific works and is a
                    contributor to various research journals, and is now at Northwestern. (3) Lynn Grissell, Rose
                    Polytechnic, West Point, now major in the 
                        United States
                     army; was stationed in 
                        Arizona
                     2 years; Yellowstone Park, 2 years; in the Philippines, 4 years; at the Presidio, 
                        California
                    , 2 years; now resides at 
                  Burlingame,
                            California
               , and teaches military science
                    in the 
                        San Francisco
                     high schools. (4) Glade McClish, graduate of 
                        Angola
                     and of Taylor university; is Methodist Episcopal missionary to Honan district, 
                        China
                    , having charge of the Centenary food distribution station there. (5) Will Leamon
                    (DePauw) was consulting chemist at 
                  Wooster, Ohio
               . Is the originator of the new method of
                    producing gasoline from fuel oil. He now owns and operates a factory for this at
                            
                  Newark, Ohio
               . (6) Dwight "Tom" Leamon is in the 
                        United States
                     navy, on board the battleship 
                        Mississippi
                     at San Pedro. He has made four trips to South America. Plays the clarinet in the band.
                    (7) Thomas Darrel Foster, Indiana university, has been a successful high school principal in several
                    western states, at present with Monmouth, 
                        Illinois
                    , high school, as teacher of higher mathematics, and coach of the football team. (8)
                    Minnie Eberly, 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Tri-State normal, Indiana university, 
                        Columbia
                     university; now high school principal at 
                  Eaton, Pennsylvania
               . (9)
                    Leslie Johnson, graduate of Tecumseh, Mich., high school, is now at 
                        Chicago
                     art institute. Has become an illustrator of great ability. (10) Charles Gray,
                    University of 
                  Michigan, Columbia
                university; now a successful real estate broker in 
                    
                        Chicago
                    . (11) Lloyd Waltz, 
                        Indianapolis
                     school of pharmacy; owns and operates his own drug store in Pennville, being the
                    town's youngest business man. (12) Tom E. Miller, 
                        Irvington
                     pharmacy college, owns and operates his own drug store in 
                        Bluffton
                    . (13) Edward Harper, Purdue pharmacy, now manager of the Myers drug stores of 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    . He served with the Expeditionary forces in 
                        France
                     and 
                        Germany
                    . (14) Celeste Bloxsome Northwestern is a member of the 
                        Chicago
                     Mutual bureau and is reader and entertainer with the Ben-Hur singers and players. (15)
                    Hattie Listenfelt, Indiana university, 
                        Columbia
                     university, 
                        Chicago
                     university, now successful high school teacher of English. (16) Mary Mason, 
                        Angola
                     Normal, Earlham, Purdue, Indiana university, specialized in sciences, taught science in
                    the Lincoln Memorial university, was government expert in the chemical and bacteriological
                    department of the army camp at Ft. Sam Houston, 
                        Texas
                    . Is now chemist in the pathological laboratory of 
                        Marion
                    , Indiana, founded by Dr. Albert Davis–the only laboratory of this kind in 
                        Grant county
                    . (17) 
                        Chester
                     Teeter, Indiana university, naturalization examiner during the World war. Now
                    successful lawyer in 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    . (18) Whitney Smith, Indiana university, a successful lawyer of 
                        Los Angeles
                    , Cal. (19) Dan De Witte, 
                        United States
                     navy, has been around the world five times. (20) 
                        Chester
                     Davis, Indiana university, joint representative from 
                        Randolph
                     and 
                        Jay
                     counties; one of the framers of the Indiana blue sky law, now attorney for State fire
                    marshall, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . (21) Fay Horn, 
                        Terre Haute
                     normal, Indiana university, teacher at Sweet-ser; now teacher of Latin and Shakespeare
                    in Central Normal, Danville, Ind. (22) Jessie Horn, graduate Presbyterian hospital, 
                        Chicago
                    , post graduate 
                        Detroit
                    , Methodist Episcopal hospital, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Protestant Deaconess, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Hahana-mon hospital, 
                        Chicago
                    ; now superintendent Ryburn hospital, Ottowa, 
                        Illinois
                    . (23) Gene Starbuch, The Alfred Holbrook Normal, 
                        Lebanon
                    , O., Indiana university, taught in Central Normal; was treasurer of 
                        Jay county
                     for many years; now treasurer of the Haynes Automobile company, 
                        Kokomo
                    .
            This list omits many successful teachers and merchants, ranchers in 
                        Texas
                    , oil-promoters of 
                        Texas
                    , and 
                        Oklahoma
                    , farmers in 
                        Idaho
                     and 
                        Montana
                    , and lumbermen in 
                        Washington
                    
                     and 
                        Oregon
                    ; also investors in 
                        Canada
                    , and many prominent men and women of the Gulf states.
            The town of Pennville is somewhat over a mile long, north and south, and three-quarters of a mile
                    wide. The main street is the state highway ( 
                        Richmond
                    - 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    ) being cement paved through the town. South of Pennville, ten miles, is Redkey and
                    Dunkirk twelve miles. It is twelve miles east to the county seat, 
                        Portland
                    ; eighteen miles north to 
                        Bluffton
                    .
            There are twelve miles of paved side-walks in the town, good business houses of block and of brick,
                    electric lights, telephones, three garages, three gasoline fill-stations, 178 automobiles in and
                    near the town, besides those of the garages and there are two daily jitneys to 
                        Portland
                     and to Bluff ton.
            The population is near 850, at present. This has always been a farmer's town. The farm land
                    in this locality is unusually fertile, and there is still a good yield of oil, and a moderate supply
                    of gas. Out east of town are wonderful deposits of sand and gravel. All the farmers here raise pure
                    bred stock; as a proof of their progressiveness hundreds of farm magazines arrive at the Pennville
                    postoffice weekly.
            The Grange is one of the largest and busiest in the state. Farmers' institutes are held each
                    year, and are well attended, not only by farmers but by the citizens generally. The Grangers never
                    miss an opportunity of displaying their products at the 
                        Jay county
                     fair, and at those of neighboring counties, and especially the state fair.
            A stranger once asked "Are all the citizens of Pennville Quakers?" The Methodist
                    church has the largest congregation now and includes scores of families of 
                        Quaker
                     origin. There is a Church of Christ which prides itself on its beautifully kept lawn
                    and beds of flowers. There is the Friends church and the old Hicksite meeting-house which is seldom
                    used.
            All the Young People's societies and Women's auxiliaries are represented in these
                    churches; and the Saturday night chicken suppers and basement banquets call together hundreds of
                    people,–making Pennville a social center.
            There is but one Catholic lady in the town, a college bred woman who has lived in various cities and
                    she is authority for the statement: "I never lived in a place where people  worked so well together for the good of a town. The churches help one
                    another. I meet with such generous treatment from everyone, no matter what church he or she
                    claims." Mrs. A. C. Brown's estimate of the church life of the town may have some
                    bearing on the educational welfare.
            This is a lodge town. Besides the Grange, there are six large lodges, each one having a commodious
                    hall. The social activities, in connection with these lodges, draw people within a radius of ten
                    miles. And it is a town of many clubs. Besides the Latin club of high school, the sewing club and
                    the Goodtime club, there are the H.O.D.S. and the En Avant clubs. None of these are federated.
            The En Avant has been "doing something" for thirteen years. It is composed of 32
                    married ladies and the work done is literary and musical, with four social functions each year.
            The H.O.D.S. (domestic science) was composed originally of young unmarried ladies; but now at the
                    annual "homecoming" many states are represented and there are the merry faces of
                    numerous children. The latest social event of the H.O.D.S. was the noon wedding of Miss Nila
                    Edmundson, domestic science teacher, Manual Training school, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , to Mr. Howard Ervin, merchant of 
                        Hartford City
                    . This was the culmination of an Indiana university romance.
            If a town may be judged by its private libraries, then this one need not fear the most critical
                    inspection for Pennville citizens have taken much pride in the selection of books and home
                    magazines. This 
                        Quaker
                     habit of gleaning from the rarest and the finest flowers of literature, may account for
                    the fact that Pennville youth, brought up in this careful way, thrived and expanded, a university
                    course following as second nature.
            A visitor to the town once said: "Never anywhere, have I heard of or seen so many relics and
                    family heir-looms as are in Pennville." Its a veritable Old curiosity Shop. Here are pieces
                    of furniture, coverlids, china, pewter, colonial cooking utensils, needle-work, pictures, rare books
                    and documents, jewelry and souvenirs of many wars keepsakes from dozens of states. Money could not
                    purchase these.
            The drinking water is so cold and delicious that Old Immortal J. N. once told a lady here that he had
                    come straight from 
                  Columbus, Ohio
               , to Pennville, "just to get a
                    drink of  good water." There are yet a few of the old
                    springs along the river bank and in the cellars and hill-sides. Once the community abounded in them,
                    and there were frequently found bowers, or "spring-houses" over the springs, and a
                    gourd dipper inviting the thirsty traveler.
            There are many musicians here. The town enjoys an Epworth League lecture course, and a high school
                    lecture course each year; also a summer chautauqua, street fair or fall carnival. There is a first
                    class moving-picture house so that no one in this town need complain of dreariness.
            The first oil well in the state of Indiana was drilled in Pennville, (often called Camden in those
                    days.) Some of the weather-bleached timbers are still lying in the field southeast of town, marking
                    the site. These are ghostly relics of that great phase in Indiana's history, the oil boom.
            Pennville was along the renowned " 
                        Quaker
                     Trace" of early Hoosier history. It was also in the underground railway
                    district of pre-Civil war fame. The old Harris home, at Balbec, (Penn. township) once sheltered
                    "Eliza" of Uncle Tom's Cabin renown. In the last 50
                    years Pennville has come to be known as the cradle of Methodism.
            The vicinity's early history is intimately connected with that of the Godfrey Indians whose
                    home was then in the 4000 acre reserve in the corner of 
                        Blackford
                     and 
                        Jay
                    . Those Indians sold their land and moved up near 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . Two homes in Pennville are built of brick taken from the old Chief Godfrey's
                    house. These are the last houses in the western part of town, before one takes the drive around the
                    beautiful, shady, winding river road, one of the seven pikes leading out of Pennville.
            Near the beginning of this same road is one of the curious wire foot bridges across the Salimonie
                    which always interest visitors of the town. Ascent is made by steps into a tall tree where there is
                    a platform, from which one reaches the narrow bridge, (swinging twenty feet above the river) and
                    then crosses to the other side into a platform in another tree. It requires a level head to do the
                    trick.
            Close by this bridge, is the giant oak tree which marks the spot where a band of the Godfrey Indians
                    camped by night, while exploring along the river for a reputed buried  treasure, coming back for this long after the tribe had moved away.
                    This is the Godfrey oak much prized by the owner.
            Following the river road westward, one comes to the old Reserve now for a great part in farm lands.
                    It is worth a day's drive to explore this region. Other points of interest are, first: the
                    Lupton pony farm on the angling pike to 
                        Hartford City
                    , west of Pennville. This is the A. G. Lupton summer home on a farm of 400 acres, where
                    live 350 ponies, Mexican burros, goats and black belted cattle. There are three tenant houses, an
                    immense barn, hospital, blacksmith shops, race-track, corrals, etc. Mr. Lupton is a Pennville boy
                    though his address is 
                        Hartford City
                    , where he is a banker, and he delights in showing visitors through the grounds of his
                    elegant home and in displaying the ponies and droll little burros.
            East of Pennville are the three large, well kept cemeteries. These cemeteries are the especial care
                    of the citizens. Still eastward is the 160 acres of pure gravel, the Margrette farm with its gravel
                    pits (now small lagoons where the young folks go bathing in summer) and where the shade and the
                    diversity of the ground make of it a natural park site. Still on, are the famous Twin Hills, once
                    200 feet above level; now nearly all converted into sand piles. This was once a great terminal
                    moraine, and was the probable water shed between the Erie basin and the Ohio river
                    valley. Here in a glacial formation, last summer, the workmen unearthed dozens of
                    skeletons and parts of skeletons that may have been prehistoric men.
            In this neighborhood are the spooky little gingseng farm in Hoover's grove and the great
                    maple sugar camp of Mr. Walter Hartley one of the few such camps now in Indiana, and going north
                    brings one to the old Spiritualist church, grove and burying-ground. This once had a large following
                    and had state-wide reputation. This locality reminds one of some of Dicken's weird scenes
                    in Bleak House. South of Pennville, on the Redkey pike, is the large Dunkard
                    church in the midst of a prosperous Dunkard community. This church is a center for camp-meetings,
                    Bible lectures, and many other interesting functions. The students from this church attend school at
                    North 
                        Manchester
                     and camp in summer at 
                        Winona
                        Lake
                    .
            
            Pennville has a bird-man. This is the banker, H. H. Coffel, a home boy. His fine modern residence is
                    enhanced by many artistic bird-houses and feed-stations. He also maintains a small bird park. Mr.
                    Coffel lectures to school children all over the state on bird life, bird conservation, and our
                    native trees. His lectures are illustrated with original slides. He has awakened much interest in
                    this important subject among young people, and also adults; with the result that many homes in and
                    around Pennville are proudly displaying bird houses. Mr. Coffel is a member of the executive board
                    of the National Audubon society.
            Mrs. Nellie Place Chandler, president of the women's Foreign Missionary society, M. E.
                    church (the 
                        Richmond
                     district) was a member of the General Conference at Des Moines Iowa. She is a musician
                    of much ability and a composer of many Sunday school songs, hymns, cantatas, special day programs,
                    choir music and many popular piano selections.
            Aunt Mary (Shanks) McCoy is nearing the century mark. She is one of those rare, highly cultured 
                        Quaker
                     dames, D.A.R.F.F.V. one of those pioneers who came out of 
                        Virginia
                     to the Indiana wilderness in a covered wagon. She was connected with Indiana's
                    old Liber college, and her life has been a shining example of modesty, truth and the love of
                    learning. She is well known throughout Indiana. Her famous brother, General John P. C. Shanks, forms
                    a chapter in Indiana Civil war history and was once a noted figure in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., and in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Died at 
                        Portland
                    , Indiana.
            Ralph Yountz, local baker, was for two and a half years in 
                        Alaska
                    , in the service of the regular army. He is familiar with many existing conditions of
                    that country, climatic, geographic, social and political. He had many experiences in Bering Sea and
                    on the Pacific ocean.
         
         
         
            Pioneer Homesteads
            JULIA LE CLERC KNOX, 
                        Vevay
                    , Ind.
            Switzerland county and especially 
                        Vevay
                    , is rich in interesting old homesteads. Some of them have been brought up to date but
                    quite a number have been left almost entirely un-tampered with. A great similarity of architecture
                    prevails, one of the most striking characteristics of which is the exceedingly thick walls, and the
                    strong disregard of any attempt at convenience. Many of these old houses have no inside
                    communication between adjoining rooms. One must go outside to enter the next apartment. The outside
                    stairway leads to upper stories and then there is almost invariably the little squeezed-up portico,
                    like a bird's nest, over the front door, and the built-in cupboards on each side of the
                    open fireplace with its high, wooden mantel.
            One of the most interesting old landmarks and one that strikes the eye first, approaching 
                        Vevay
                     from the water front, is the old Ferry house. It was in process of building when the
                    first steamer passed down the 
                        Ohio
                     and the people who came from miles around to see this wonder of steam power, gathered
                    around the foundation of this building, erected by John Francis Dufour who laid out 
                        Vevay
                     and watched the workmen, who probably builded better than they knew for the old house
                    has stood the test of time and high water very successfully and still proudly holds up its head, as
                    one might say. During the annual floods of the 
                        Ohio
                    , the water often gets to the top of the mantel in the second story. It is built of
                    cement and looks like an adobe house. It is quaint and picturesque from both front and rear. The
                    side facing the river has the outside stair opening by a trap door on the upper porch. The lower
                    porch has the old time brick paved floor. The walls are three feet thick and the doors are heavy and
                    broad.
            Only the two families have lived in this house. Since the Dufours passed away, the Grahams have owned
                    it, and it owes its name of the "Ferry" house to the fact that the Grahams have
                    furnished several dynasties of owners of the ferry boat which has its landing at the foot of the
                    knoll on which it stands.
            
            It is so rambling, illogical and detached, one feels he almost needs a guide and compass to get
                    through it. The third story is reached by the conventional narrow, steep cupboard –like
                    attic stairs. Here in a tiny bedroom containing quaint old furniture, a man is said to have hanged
                    himself in the long ago. Why, no one seems to know. Tradition has it that Robert Dale Owen has
                    embalmed this old house as a haunted place in his Footsteps on the Boundary of Another
                        World.
            
                    
                        Vevay
                     proudly claims to be the birthplace of Edward Eggleston and the house in which he first
                    saw the light is in a very good state of preservation. It is a two-story brick situated on the main
                    street of the town. You enter a short but broad hall. On the right is a square sitting room with the
                    usual built-in cupboards flanking the old wood mantel. You step back into a long narrow room
                    evidently originally a porch, one end of which is partitioned off into a pantry. A window opening
                    off from the front room very clearly shows this to be an after thought. The kitchen is reached by a
                    raise-up-the-latch-and-walk-in door. Here is the corner cupboard of pioneer times with funny wooden
                    buttons and a back stair with closed-in stair way and eccentric triangular steps that threaten life
                    and limb of all but the most wary. Off the kitchen is an unexpected little room and under the front
                    stair is a queer little dark closet that piqued our imagination as children. One might fancy the
                    youthful Edward's earliest ideas of this. The front stair is easier of ascent than that of
                    most old houses. When you reach the landing you find yourself unable to decide which way you want to
                    go–on towards the front or to the back where an interesting vista through two low-browed
                    rooms ends in a vision of an old flower garden seen through two old small-paned windows that open
                    like doors, on hinges. As this way seems most uniquely promising, you are apt to take it. And one is
                    not disappointed. First, is the tiniest bed room imaginable with a high chest of drawers and a
                    cubby-hole window suggestive of all the fascinating mystery of years of attic accumulation. You pass
                    through an arched opening into a slightly more grown-up room, an ideal place to be lulled to sleep
                    by the patter of the rain upon the roof. Here is found the headwaters, as one might say, of the
                    queer crooked stairs. There is no protecting rail and one thinks with horror of what  might have happened if Mr. Eggleston had been addicted to sleep-walking
                    in his youth. The Hoosier School Master would have been an untold tale, and so
                    would Roxy and all the rest. The front upper room is large and pleasant with the
                    deep built-in presses flanking the mantel. The deep window seats show the thick walls. Just at the
                    side of the room is a tiny closet-like room that reminds one of an infant in comparison. This is
                    another characteristic of these old houses. The little squeezed up portico over the front door has
                    been torn away– wooden trellis and all–and the tangled old garden that
                    fascinated the childish fancy into imagining all sorts of Alice-in-Wonderland adventures that might
                    take place there has been combed up into modernity. This house is now owned and occupied by Mr. and
                    Mrs. James Miller.
            On the corner lot next the Eggleston place is the 
                        Knox
                     homestead, about a hundred years old. It is a low-browed two-story framed, feeble with
                    age. An odd narrow porch, hemmed in by an iron rail, runs across the front, the width of the two
                    heavy front doors. Scarcely two rooms in this house are on exactly the same level. You either step
                    up or step down perceptibly or imperceptibly. By deep, shaky steps you go from the little back entry
                    up a stair way that winds to the right and reaches a hall cut up by steps that lead into four rooms,
                    all on different levels. One of them a tiny one with the walls slanting down to the floor and you
                    can stand erect only in the middle of the room. You step from the trellised side porch into an
                    old-fashioned garden where coxcombs, zennias, petunias, etc., used to grow. Here is an Old well, now
                    robbed of windlass and sweep. The house is now occupied by a young couple, Mr. and Mrs. Carl
                    Cul-bertson, but in the lifetime of the last owner, it was filled with old fashioned furniture and
                    china. Heavy gilt framed mirrors and old portraits hung on the walls. A grandfather's clock
                    sat in state in the parlor and in fact everything savored strongly of the last century and made an
                    appropriate setting for the gentle mistress herself who in cap and modified hoop skirt, gladly
                    welcomed her guests.
            On lower Market street is an old brown frame, jutting out over the sidewalk. It is known as the
                    "Aunt Lucy Detraz" home. This old lady lived to be almost one hundred. She was the
                    daughter of Antoinette Dufour Morerod whose brothers  laid out
                    the town of 
                        Vevay
                    . From the little trellised porch at the side you step into a low-ceiled rambling house,
                    built in a detached illogical way with three-cornered closets here and there. It originally came to
                    a sort of climax down stairs here and down stairs there, until it landed below the bank. A closed
                    stair leads by a straight and narrow way to the upper rooms. There is a picturesque two story
                    veranda facing the river and it was from this place that "Rev. Whittaker" talked
                    to "Toinette" in Boxy. Mr. and Mrs. J. S. Shadday now occupy the
                    house. Mrs. S. is the only daughter of Aunt Lucy.
            The homestead known as the "Uncle Aime" Morerod place (Mr. Morerod was Aunt
                    Lucy's brother) is just on the outskirts of the city near the hills. It stands back some
                    distance from the gate and is reached by a winding path. Ascending the stone steps, sunken with age,
                    you pass through the great colonial doorway into a broad hall. There are fifteen rooms not counting
                    halls, entries or closets under the stair. The chair-boarded walls are very thick. The rooms with
                    old-fashioned disregard of convenience do not open into each other but preserve a rigid
                    individuality. You must go out into the hall and start over again. Conservation of energy counted
                    for nothing evidently in the days when this house was built. You descend a flight of steps, walk a
                    few paces and ascend an equal flight and as there is no especial gain to be had except exercise, one
                    feels this should be bridged over.
            General John Dumont built this house about a hundred years ago, and here Julia L. Dumont, the famous
                    pioneer school-mistress did her grand work. The historic schoolroom, now somewhat cut up into other
                    rooms, is on an upper floor and was reached by an outer stair, which is now torn away, yet the door
                    still remains at the rear of the building and testifies to the extreme thickness of the walls. In
                    the great room on the left of the hall on the grained floor are the brass window curtain trimmings.
                    The ceilings are extremely high and the rooms are cool as a cellar in summer and cold as Siberia in
                    winter. Everything is redolent of the past. There is flavor of sadness, of inevitableness,
                    suggestive of human destiny, old age and unfitness to keep up with present day demands, a sort of
                    air of "have-done-ness" and despondent waiting for the hand of the present to tear
                    it down. It is now owned by Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Leep who have 
                    spent a great deal of money in attempting to lengthen its days of usefulness.
            Another old Morerod homestead, built by the father of "Uncle Aime" and
                    "Aunt Lucy" is just a little outside of the corporation below 
                        Vevay
                     and faces the river. It stands back from the read and is surrounded by a well-kept lawn
                    sprinkled with cedar trees. The story goes, that when the house was built Mrs. Morerod journeyed to 
                        Cincinnati
                     to get these trees to set out and the dealer convinced her it would be best to take
                    tiny cuttings instead of young trees. Imagine the feelings of her husband when he hitched up a two
                    horse wagon to meet her at the boat landing and haul home the trees. The six of them now testify the
                    dealer's judgment was correct. Just this year an old frame addition to the brick nucleus
                    was torn away, this was known as the "ball room." Here, lighted by brass
                    candelabra on the walls, were enacted many lively scenes of pioneer days. One lady came to take a
                    last look at the place where her father and mother first met. The ball room was on the upper floor
                    and was reached by outside stairs. An old wine cellar below contained two mammoth wine casks, one
                    with the capacity of seven hundred gallons, the other of five hundred, and they had to be pulled to
                    pieces to remove them from the cellar. This was done only a few months ago. There was a brick
                    pavement in this cellar and it is said that old Jean Morerod, the builder, took his daughter there
                    and showed where he had dug up a part of the floor and buried his money, in case any unexpected
                    Indian raid should put a period to his existence before he could tell his family where his money
                    was. There was a square place in the floor that looked as if the bricks had been removed. This house
                    is now occupied by Mr. Julia Dupraz and family, descendants of Mrs. Julia L. Dumont.
            At the cross roads that lead to Vevay, Madison and Moore-field stands the old Heady home, built a
                    hundred years ago, by a Siebenthal who married one of the sisters of the Duf ours
                    who founded 
                        Vevay
                    . It is a large brick and has suffered the improvement of a broad cement front porch
                    which replaced the conventional little frame railed one now doing duty at the side. Again, the broad
                    roomy hall and the thick walls and old-time idea of convenience being no factor, shown in the
                    different floor levels. You go up a step or two here  and down a
                    step or two there. There is a great back porch screened into summer kitchen, hood and an unexpected
                    little milk room up a few steps. The stair leading to the upper story is the conventional one found
                    in old houses with a broad landing near the top. There is one great room filled with furniture,
                    breathing of the past, and three smaller ones. The stairs to the garret are so quaint one wonders if
                    the garret was meant to hide in, in pioneer days, it is so unexpected. You see a cupboard-like door
                    in the wall, led up to by two or three steps far apart. You open the door and peep in. There are
                    more steps wide apart, not straight in front but to the side, leading up up, to a mysteriously
                    fascinating darkness. Mr. and Mrs. Heady now own and occupy this interesting old place.
            Down the Madison road a short distance is the old Henry place. Through a clover field you come to a
                    tiny brick house, sixty years old and small of its age. It is extremely insignificant in outward
                    appearance; crouching down in an old-fashioned tangled garden, fragrant with roses, pinks and
                    honeysuckle, it gives no signs of the treasures it contains. The garden slopes to the river and a
                    good view of the passing steamers may be had from it. The house contains more rooms than one would
                    imagine; parlor, living room and kitchen stretch in a straight line from the front door and along
                    the side are three tiny bedrooms in a row with no communication with each other.
            The house was built by the father of the present occupants, two extremely interesting elderly maiden
                    ladies and their bachelor brother who reminds one of Thoreau. They all might have stepped out from
                    the pages of Cranford.
            
            Their father, an ink manufacturer came from 
                        England
                     and establishe dan ink manufactory just a step or two from the house. It still stands,
                    the great mixing pot, furnace and all the machinery scattered around rather illogically now,
                    although the old owner was always severely particular about everything being in its place, as those
                    could testify who found his manufactory and him as interesting as a wizard in his workshop whom they
                    watched "inviz." For instance when he used a pair of scissors, he hung them back
                    on their especial nail, immediately and nobody dared touch them. Many 
                    
                        Switzerland
                     county boys with inventive or mechanical turn haunted his place and bear testimony
                    today to his influence.
            In a sort of sanctum sanctorum, there is an old static machine and book binding apparatus. Here the
                    sprightly younger daughter carries on that part of her father's trade and binds books for
                    the county.
            A queer little ladder-like stair leads to a garret with trunks full of quilts worth going miles to
                    see. There is one sixty years old with eight thousand pieces. Think of it! In this day of club and
                    college for women, could such a thing be done? Such tiny intricate pieces and patterns! And
                    patience!
            There is an old chest from across seas, the oak rim of which was made from piles taken from the
                    Thames, and it is said to be four hundred years old. The old manufactory is wooden and has many
                    gables. It is said the owner might have made a fortune, but he confided the secret of his ink
                    mixture to others who cheated him of his patent.
            In the houses there are many fine old pieces of furniture –mahogany pedestal tables,
                    chests of drawers and beautiful four posted bedsteads. On a chest of drawers stands a wooden
                    treasure box that looks like one might imagine the ark of the covenant looked.
            Out of a tall secretary book case three stories high, they exhumed for us to see an old newspaper
                    published in 
                  Ulster county, New
                            York
               , in 1800. Wonder of wonders it was edged with black mourning
                    for G. Washington. It gave one quite a turn to read the account of his burial as follows: 
                        On Wednesday last, the mortal part of 
                                Washington
                            , the Great Father of his Country and Friend of Man, was consigned to the tomb
                            with solemn honors and funeral pomp.
                    
            
            Of minor interest of course was the advertisement for sale of a negro wench. Out of the chest of
                    drawers the dear old ladies brought two dolls, one eighty years old but still interesting and much
                    handsomer than one would think dolls were, so long ago. It had come from 
                        England
                     and was dressed in beautiful hand-embroidered baby clothesi. The other was sixty years
                    old and the china head was made to represent the style of hair dressing of that time–side
                    curls and back  curls topped by a tight chignon. The dress was
                    in keeping, pantalettes and all.
            Then they brought forth their mother's wedding gown, a flowered silk of a quaint old-time
                    color. It is hand-made with stitches so regular and small it is hard to believe they are not machine
                    made. The skirt and sleeves were full and the bodice whale-boned with a broad cape, all suggestive
                    of old family daguerrotypes.
            Then they showed us an old flint lock musket of 1814, and struck fire from the hammer. The old thing
                    was so heavy one wondered if there would be much fight left in a fellow who had carried it very far,
                    and thought it was just more proof that "There were giants in those days."
            When we stepped into the living room we could almost imagine we were in Whittier's home. Rag
                    carpet and oblong rag rugs covered the floor. An old clock seventy-six years old hangs on the wall,
                    beautiful in line and design. It looks strangely up to date because clocks now-a-days are being
                    built on those same lines. An old wooden settee that had once had rockers and done duty as a cradle,
                    occupied a conspicuous place. Wooden chairs and, a wooden rocker of picturesque quaintness and a
                    large heavily framed mirror attract attention as does also a loom for weaving. Old prints hang on
                    the walls, virgin to wall paper. Altogether one feels after a visit to this place as if the pages of
                    history had been turned back sixty years.
            A few miles above town is the house built by Judge Elisha Golay ninety-two years ago. It is now
                    occupied by Rev. L. E. Smith. It looks small from the outside but astonishes one at the amount of
                    space inside. There is a brick walk on each side as old as the house. A honeysuckle hedge borders
                    the lawn from which a fine view of the hill may be had. Unaccountable as it may seem, there is a
                    cistern in the cellar. Of all the old houses this one wears the belt for queer little closets and
                    three cornered cupboards. In one room a little door opens high in the wall and shows three drawers,
                    spoken of by old members of the family as the "secret" drawers. Here, it is said,
                    the old Judge kept his money before the day of banks. In the dining room a picture hangs over a
                    square hole in the wall, strongly suggestive of secret springs. Above the mantel in this same room
                    is another  little door now papered over, and a picture hung
                    above it. One couldn't help but think of the "House of Seven Gables."
            The doors are large and heavy and three-paneled, with brass knobs and hinges that run across like
                    bars over the outer doors as against pioneer foes. One of these doors has a latch like a coffee
                    grinder. The broad, cheerful front hall has a stairway inviting one to the upper story where three
                    airy rooms have any number of little closets, some opening into cubby holes.
            A short distance farther up the road, is the house built by Constant Golay (son of Judge Elisha) and
                    brother-in-law of "Uncle Aime" Morerod in 1843. The date is marked on the cellar
                    steps. This house has been modernized by the present owners, Mr. and Mrs. Waltz, and has been
                    converted into quite a handsome residence. The conventional small front portico has been removed and
                    a broad veranda with massive columns has taken its place. The great deep triangular-shaped back
                    porch has remained the same. From it a fine view of the 
                        Ohio
                     may be obtained. One of the chief attractions is the broad central hall, running the
                    length of the house, and having a beautiful polished floor. The doors are handsomely panelled with
                    brass knobs, the outer ones have hinges reaching entirely across like bars, as a protection against
                    outer force. The walls are nineteen inches thick.
            The house now owned by the parents of Will Stevens, and C. D. Stevens of University of 
                        Cincinnati
                     (coming into some fame as a landscape artist) is more than seventy years old, but is in
                    excellent repair, and like a well-preserved individual is all the more interesting on account of its
                    experiences, as it has lost all the crudeness of youth. It is situated in 
                        Vevay
                     on lower Market street on the site of the first bank. The front door, presided over by
                    a trim little portico, is reached by a flight of stone steps. Through this colonial door you enter a
                    broad hall running the length of the house and opening at the rear on a wide veranda, two stories in
                    height. From this veranda, with its great Doric columns, one has a fine view of the 
                        Ohio
                     and the distant Kentucky hills.
            It overlooks an artistically planned flower garden, which by terraces, slopes to the meadows that
                    border the river. There are phlox, sweet pinks and other old fashioned flowers,  and a rose bower with rustic seats. Then there is a sundial built of
                    the material of the first soda fountain in 
                        Vevay
                    .
            The house is furnished in exquisite keeping. The kitchen and dining room are in the basement. The
                    latter is especially attractive with its small-paned windows opening on hinges, its three cornered
                    cupboard built in the wall, and most charming of all–above the mantel a picturesque view
                    of the 
                        Ohio
                    , a wall decoration by the artist son of the owner. From the kitchen you have the novel
                    experience of going up three or four steps to the cellar which is cool and sweet-smelling.
            Another interesting old house is the Schenck house, also on Market street, with its back to the
                    river. It is a three story brick with the customary small front porch though the stone pillars are
                    large and massive. A broad hall runs the length of the house and opens on a broad veranda at the
                    rear overlooking the 
                        Ohio
                    . This veranda also has heavy stone pillars and is three stories in height. It can be
                    seen far away on the river and is an old landmark. Spacious double parlors are on each side of the
                    hall. The lofty ceilings give palatial proportions. Its crowning1 glory is the
                    beautiful spiral stair winding "up, up uppy" like the one in the fairy story but
                    instead of finding "Boo" at the top, there is a queer old attic with the most
                    interesting old hair-covered trunks and derelicts of all kinds.
            On the way to the attic where the old family "has beens" repose one reaches the
                    second story as one might naturally suppose. Here, again is the broad hall the entire length of the
                    house opening on a sort of Romeo and Juliet balcony in front and in the back on the broad veranda
                    before-mentioned, and great airy bedrooms on each side. By a closed stair the basement is reached.
                    Again the broad hall with the dining room on one side with itsi quaint Delft tiles and on the other
                    the big kitchen. Some interesting old furniture is found in this house, now owned and occupied by
                    Mr. and Mrs. Will Fry. There are at least half a dozen more old homesteads in and about 
                        Vevay
                     fully as interesting.
         
         
         
            Historical News
            By the INDIANA HISTORICAL COMMISSION
            
            Almost daily we see evidences of the growing interest throughout Indiana in state and local history.
                    No one, however, has characterized this phase of our work better than Mrs. Mindwell Crampton Wilson,
                    newly elected state regent of the Daughters of the American Revolution for Indiana. In speaking of
                    the historical consciousness she says: 
                        For months the state newspapers have contained a steadily increasing amount of material
                            concerning local history. Historical items and reminiscences seem to jump up at us from
                            every page. While much of the matter is a repetition, some rescue from the past facts worth
                            preserving, and the whole is worth-while as answering the reproach that we of Indiana care
                            nothing for our antecedents.
                        This movement–for by this time it has become a very perceptible
                            movement–may be traced back to our centennial year, 1916, and the organized
                            effort on the part of the state to promote an historical program. The observance of the
                            centennial was of itself of course a great stimulus in that direction, with the creation of
                            a special historical commission to take the business in hand. The appeals for local pageants
                            and other demonstrations reached pretty nearly every county in the state quickening the
                            historical sense as it never had been stirred before, while the celebrations staged by the
                            state itself on a spectacular scale helped much to the desired, end.
                        Our part in the World war stimulated our interest in collecting historical data. The state
                            historical commission insisted that we keep accurate account of our war activities. After
                            the war we were urged to organize a county historical society. We took an excursion through 
                                Adams
                             township and found we were rich in history–and the local society was
                            soon organized. We were fortunate in electing the right president and the right secretary to
                            carry on the work.
                        Finally, if we are listing all the evidence of an awakening historical activity, mention
                            should be made of the growing interest in historical markers, the latest of which was the
                            Old Town marker, recently erected near 
                                Logansport
                            , and the increasing number of pageants, most of them of an historical
                            character, which are daily chronicled in the newspapers.
                        
                     
                                
                                    Carroll County
                                 Citizen-Times, October 14, 1922.
                    
            
            One of the signs of the increasing interest in local history is seen by the growing number of markers
                    that are being erected on historical sites and spots over the state. Within the last few months a
                    dozen or more historical markers have  been erected in Indiana,
                    and the unveiling of each was the occasion of an historical gathering for the citizens of each
                    respective community, at which time historical papers and addresses were read.
            In 
                        Rush county
                     a bronze tablet has been erected to the memory of the Revolutionary soldiers buried in
                    that county. It contains 22 names, and has been placed in the corridor of the county court house in
                    Rushville.
            In 
                        Cass county
                     on August 6th a marker was placed at Old Town on the site where the charge across the
                    river against the Indians occurred on August 7, 1791. The Old Town chapter of the Daughters of the
                    American Revolution was responsible for this marker.
            In 
                        Lake county
                    , Ross township, a bronze tablet was unveiled on August 28th to the memory of Bartlett
                    Woods, 
                        Lake county
                     pioneer, state senator, and a man of affairs. The 
                        Lake County
                     historical and old settlers' association at their 46th annual meeting,
                    unveiled the marker and were responsible for its erection.
            In 
                        Elkhart county
                     a marker consisting of a slab embedded in a granite boulder marking the grave of
                    William Tuffs in 
                        Bonneyville
                     cemetery, was unveiled by the order of Red Men of 
                        Elkhart
                    . William Tuffs was a member of the 
                        Boston
                     Tea Party, and one of the founders of the order of Red Men.
            On September 17 at 
                  New Marion, Ripley county
               , a marker was dedicated marking the spot where the first
                    court was held in that county. The stone stands alongside the 
                        Michigan
                     road, and therefore serves as a marker for both the first seat-of justice, and this
                    historic highway. Joseph Hassmer, president of the 
                        Ripley County
                     historical society, donated the stone for the marker.
            On September 24 the 
                        Tipton County
                     historical society placed two bronze tablets, one marking a log cabin, and the other an
                    auditorium in the city park of 
                        Tipton
                    . The building of these two was begun in 1916, as centennial memorials, but due to the
                    interruption of the war the placing and dedication of the bronze tablets was delayed until this
                    year.
            In 
                        Grant county
                     a marker on the site of the Mississinewa battlefield was dedicated in May, 1922. This
                    marker was placed by the Marion high school, which, under the direction of Miss Cora M. Straughan,
                    has been greatly interested in  repairing the Indian burial
                    ground near 
                        Jalapa
                    , and preserving the cemetery as one of the landmarks in 
                        Grant county
                    .
            In July, 1922, a memorial to Julia V. Strauss, "Country Contributor," was unveiled
                    in 
                        Turkey
                     Run park, 
                        Parke county
                    . This memorial was the gift of the Women's press club of Indiana.
            In 
                        Wells county
                     a marker was dedicated early in October, on the site where the first schoolhouse was
                    built in 
                        Jackson
                     township, that county.
            In 
                        Decatur county
                     two markers have been erected within the last two months. A monument unveiled by the
                    Woman's Relief Corps September 8, 1922, in the court house yard was erected to the memory
                    of the soldiers from the county who lost their lives in the Civil war. On November 11, the Lone Tree
                    chapter of the D. A. R. dedicated a marker to Col. Thomas Hendricks, who made the first survey of
                    what is now 
                        Decatur county
                    . In the log cabin which he erected the first court was held in 
                        Decatur county
                    , and the name 
                        Greensburg
                     was selected for the county seat by Mrs. Thomas Hendricks in memory of her home town in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Mrs. Mary Stewart Carey, descendant of Col. Thomas Hendricks, donated the marker.
            The historical and patriotic societies of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Marion county
                    , aided by a special appropriation of the 
                        Indianapolis City
                     Park board, will mark the site on which the John McCormick cabin stood, the first cabin
                    built in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . A huge 
                        New Hampshire
                     granite boulder, mounted by a bronze tablet, showing a log cabin in relief, and with
                    appropriate inscription, has been adopted for this marker.
            On June 14, 1922, the Mary Penrose Wayne chapter of the D. A. R. in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     dedicated a marker on the site where the last French fort stood in 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    .
            County historical societies have recently been organized in 
                        Shelby
                     and 
                        Boone
                     counties, and township historical societies have been organized in 
                        Montgomery
                     and 
                        Tipton
                     counties. On August 3, 1922, the 
                        Shelby County
                     historical society, an outgrowth of the centennial celebration, was organized with the
                    following officers: R. W. Harrison, president; Lottie Tat-man, vice-president; Mrs. Catherine
                    Kennedy, secretary, and Clarence Crockett, treasurer. Dr. Samuel Kennedy, of 
                        Shelby
                    -ville, recently donated a valuable lot to be used as the home of the building for the 
                        Shelby County
                     historical society.
            
            The 
                        Boone County
                     historical society organized October 11 elected John Herr, president; Herschel
                    Richardson, vice-president; Ralph W. Stark, secretary, and Mrs. Mamie Clingler, treasurer. The 
                        Boone county
                     organization plans to do things. Township historical societies have been organized in
                    every township in the county and a thorough historical survey of the county is now under way.
            Early in August the Ladoga Township historical society was organized, consisting of 
                        Scott
                     and 
                        Clark
                     townships in 
                        Montgomery county
                    . This is reported as the first township organization in the state. The officers elected
                    are W. L. Anderson, president; Lydia Hostetter, secretary, and Hallie Side-ner, treasurer.
            In 
                        Tipton county
                     township historical societies have been organized in every township in the county.
                    Regular meetings are held and the archeological and historical survey planned by the Indiana
                    historical commission is being carried on in a thorough and vigorous manner.
            The annual fall meeting of the Southwestern Indiana historical society was held in 
                        Boonville
                    , Friday, September 29, 1922. A paper on the Wabash and Erie Canal, by Judge Edward
                    Gough of 
                        Boonville
                    ; Early Recollections of 
                        Evansville
                    , by Mary F. Reilley; Items of 
                        Warrick County
                     History, by Herman Collins, and talks by Judge John E. Iglehart and Senator Roscoe
                    Kiper were the chief features of the program. Judge Iglehart, president of the Southwestern Indiana
                    historical society, pronounced this meeting "the most successful ever held."
            
               Bulletin No. 16 of the Indiana, Historical Commission, published in October, 1922,
                    contains a complete copy of the proceedings of the meeting of the Southwestern Indiana historical
                    society held at 
                        Evansville
                    , January 31, 1922.
            The Society of Indiana Pioneers has made two historical pilgrimages during the last few months to
                    points of interest in Indiana. The first one was to 
                        Hamilton county
                     where the members visited the site of the Conner mill and other points of local
                    historical interest. The second pilgrimage was to 
                  New
                        Harmony, Posey county
               , for a
                    day's visit, viewing the many interesting historical sites in 
                        Posey county
                    .
            Increasing interest in centennial-historical celebrations has been noticed in several counties during
                    the past year. In 
                    
                        Madison county
                     early in September a centennial was held, featuring the historical development of the
                    county's growth during the past century. Historical floats and exhibits of historical
                    relics and a talk on the early history of 
                        Madison county
                     by Frank P. Foster were the chief features of the historical celebration.
            On October 12-13, 
                        Morgan county
                     celebrated its 100th anniversary with a splendid centennial program. Historical
                    pageants, parades, and an exhibit of old relics were the chief features emphasized in this
                    celebration. Pictures of the parade and the crowds that assembled were made, and later shown in the
                    movie houses in 
                        Martinsville
                    . The 
                        Morgan County
                     historical society brought the film and will show the pictures throughout the other
                    towns in 
                        Morgan county
                    .
            
                    
                        Montgomery county
                     in planning for its one hundredth anniversary by holding several meetings and
                    historical programs in 
                        Crawfordsville
                     and throughout the county. Clubs and other organizations are making special exhibits of
                    relics and pioneer displays, and a thorough centennial awakening is noted among the citizens of this
                    county. The centennial celebration will be held during the summer of 1923.
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notes
            
               Modern European History. By HUTTON J. WEBSTER, Professor in the University of 
                        Nebraska
                    . D. C. Heath & Co. Pp. 671.
            THE approach of the time for the adoption of textbooks for Indiana schools brings our interest more
                    sharply again to the subject of history. The last decade has brought quite a change both in the view
                    point of the subject and the subject matter of the text. The tendency for some time has been to
                    throw the emphasis more and more on the present and in European history on those topics which have a
                    direct bearing on American history. The Medieval period has lost its interest not only in the high
                    schools but in the colleges. Professor Webster's text begins with the French Revolution
                    though three brief preliminary chapters lead up to that point. Even in the restricted field there is
                    a decided change in perspective. Military and political history cease to monopolize the text.
                    Science, commerce, social struggle—not only among submerged classes but among submerged
                    nations,—art—including literature, philosophy and law—and
                    international politics receive almost as much emphasis. Development along these lines is the central
                    theme of this text. It is provided with suitable bibliographies, topics for detailed study,
                    illustrations and maps according to the latest demands of pedagogy.
         
         
            
               World History. By HUTTON WEBSTER. D. C.
                    Heath & Co. Pp. 759.
            This text is intended for high school classes devoting one year to history. It is
                    a brief survey of the progress of humanity from prehistoric times. Although the viewpoint here is
                    different, yet there is more attention given to the modern world—half the book being
                    devoted to the last century. Lack of space prevents any detailed review here further than to observe
                    that the book is well organized, well written, artistically illustrated and abundantly supplies with
                    aids to the teacher.
         
         
         
            
               The University of 
                            Michigan
                        . By WILFRED SHAW, Secretary of the Alumni Association and Editor of the 
                        
                            Michigan
                         Alumnus. Harcourt Brace & Co. Pp. 384.
            This is a brief survey of the development of the University of 
                        Michigan
                     and not a detailed history. The university was founded in 1837, though some shadowy
                    antecedents had existed twenty years earlier. In many respects 
                        Michigan
                     was the pioneer state university of the west, though not the oldest. Its struggles for
                    existence are not treated in detail, but rather its achievements. The volume is beautifully
                    illustrated and was doubtless intended partly as a combination annual for the old grads, a means of
                    starting their memories working.
         
         
            
               Why Wars Come or Forms of Government and Foreign Policies in Relation to the Causes
                        of Wans. By Rear Admiral A. P. NIBLACK, U. S. Navy. The Stratford Co.,
                    1922. Pp. 165.
            THE substance of this volume is two lectures delivered by Admiral Niblack, one to the U. S. Naval War
                    college, the other to the Grotius Society of 
                        England
                    . In general his cor elusion is that responsible government and popular control of the
                    foreign policy would at least avoid some wars. He has little hope that war is at an end.
                    "The country which is not prepared to fight for its existence had better make some other
                    arrangements." "Any one who believes that the world is not now storing up for
                    itself a lot of future wars is blind to the lack of disinterestedness which has governed many of the
                    settlements growing out of the recent World war." Admiral Niblack's home is 
                        Vincennes
                    , Ind.
         
         
            
               
                        
                            Michigan
                         Bibliography, A Partial Catalog of Books, Maps, and Manuscripts, Relating to 
                            Michigan
                        . Prepared by FLOYD BENJAMIN STREETER. Vol. I, Mich. Hist. Com. 1921. Pp. 753.
            THERE are listed here 7,072 books and pamphlets. Each is briefly described, if the
                    title itself is not sufficient, and the libraries indicated where it may be found. The items are
                    arranged alphabetically and each has a key nvamber. On account of the close relation between Indiana
                    and 
                        Michigan
                    , both territorially and historically, I have found it a most useful book to keep at
                    hand on the table. Volume II, 466  pages, contains a list of
                    maps, atlases and manuscripts, together with an index to the whole.
         
         
            
               Manchuria, Land of Opportunity, is a small volume of 113 pages tastefully printed
                    and bound and gorgeously illustrated. It is sent out by the South Manchuria railway to furnish
                    information to Americans of the transformation of Manchuria since the Russo-Japanese war. The
                    province contains 365,000 square miles and has a population of 15,000,000. It is being developed by
                    the Japanese.
         
         
            
               The New Frontier, A Study of the American Liberal Spirit; Its Frontier Origin and Its
                        Application to Modern Problems. By GUY EMEKSON. Henry
                    Holt & Co. Pp. 314.
            THE leading thesis of this book is liberalism. This characteristic was acquired by the Americans in
                    their contact with a new world and its new problems. Frontier conditions produced qualities of
                    leadership and fair play which still inhere in the citizenship of the country. Liberalism is defined
                    as a middle of the road course, a live and let live attitude. "The Liberal seeks the solid
                    and eternal middle ground." The author, however, is not always clear in stating his
                    position. Most liberals would hardly class the author as one.
         
         
            
               Publication of the 
                            North Carolina
                         Historical Commission, Bulletin 28, Proceedings of the 1920 and 1921 Annual
                    Sessions. Raleigh, 1921. Pp. 128.
            AMONG the articles are Vitality in State History, by J. G. de R. Hamilton; William
                    Richardson Davie by H. M. Wag-staff; An Eighteenth Century Circuit Rider (Judge James Iredell of the
                    U. S. Supreme Bench) by Frank Nash; an Old Time 
                        North Carolina
                     Election by Louise Irby.
         
         
            
               The Trend of History Origins of the Twentieth Century Problems. By WILLIAM KAY WALLACE. Macmillan, 1922. Pp.
                    372.
            THE problems treated are Constitutional Government, the Politico-Theistic State,
                    Nationalism, Rise of the Middle Class, the New Nationalism, Imperialism, the Super-State and the  Economic Question. The author discards the chronological
                    treatment of history and seeks in the mass of events the origin and development of those ideas and
                    policies which now engage the attention of politicians. The selections made and the adequacy and
                    accuracy of treatment are the questions most important in a review of this book, but such a lengthy
                    discussion would outrun the interests of this magazine. The field, however, is attractive and the
                    author has written clearly. How convincingly depends largely on the readers' viewpoint.
         
         
            Filson Club Publications No. 32, The Filson Club and Its Activities, 1884-1922.
                    By OTTO A. ROTHERT, Secretary of the club, John P. Morton, 
                        Louisville
                    , 1922. Pp. 64.
            THE title of this pamphlet sufficiently indicates its nature. A list of its 32 publications and a
                    roster of its members with the literary activities of each is included. Only a few of its valuable
                    historical papers have been published. The career and work of the club have been eminently
                    honorable. Its special field—early 
                        Kentucky
                     history—is not exceeded in interest or importance, by any section of the
                    country. The tragedy of the club came with the sale of the Durrett Collection to 
                        Chicago
                     university. Col. Reuben T. Durrett was the founder and had always been its president
                    and curator. As such he had accumulated about 30,000 books and pamphlets relating to the history of
                    the Ohio valley. This magnificent collection was equalled only by the Draper
                    collection of 
                  Madison, Wisconsin
               . On the death of Colonel Durrett in 1913, the
                    collection went to 
                        Chicago
                    . The Filson Club, however, still continues its valuable work. Otto A. Rothert is its
                    secretary and R. C. Ballard Thruston has given it a home in his own private library.
         
         
            
               The Register of the 
                            Kentucky
                         State Historical Society for May opens with a portrait and short biography of
                    Henry Watterson. Other items of interest for Indianians are correspondence between Governor Shelby
                    and General Harrison, Discovery of 
                        Kentucky
                    , and some new facts about Abraham Lincoln's parents.
         
         
         
            
               Publications of the 
                            Nebraska
                         Historical Society. Vol. XX. By ALBERT WATKINS. The Society, Lincoln, 1922. Pp. 400.
            PRECEDED by the Editor's preface and a list of the officers and directors
                    of the Society and followed by a general index, is a history, in short stories, of the valleys or
                    plains of the 
                        Missouri
                     and Arkansas rivers (comprehensively the 
                        Nebraska
                     Country) and of the contiguous mountain region, covering the first six decades of the
                    nineteenth century and compiled mainly from contemporaneous newspapers named in the preface.
            First are the stories of the traffic of the fur traders of 
                        St. Louis
                    —mainly French—with the Indians, along the 
                        Missouri
                    , the Platte and the Arkansas rivers, by means of rowboats, saddle
                    horses and pack mules. The progressive advance, from 1819, of steamboats up the 
                        Missouri
                    ; the movement at the same time for military protection of the Upper 
                        Missouri
                     traders from Indians and British trespassers; the later construction of military posts
                    along the 
                        Oregon
                     Trail, to protect fur traders of the middle mountain region and the emigrants to 
                        California
                     and 
                        Oregon
                    , and afterward along the cut-off road to 
                        Montana
                    ; the cholera scourge at 
                        St. Louis
                     and on the 
                        California
                     and 
                        Oregon
                     road, and of the smallpox among the Upper 
                        Missouri
                     Indians; management of the public lands, mismanagement of the Indians and their
                    segregation; political organization for the region thus opened for white settlers and the fierce
                    partisanship incident thereto, especially touching the slavery question; character of the pioneer
                    currency; origin of the Santa Fe trail, and its traffic; wars between gentile settlers and undesired
                    Mormons and the retirement of the saints to 
                        Utah
                     and the armed rebellion there; the continual hostilities between whites and Indians and
                    among the Indian tribes; the annexation of 
                        Texas
                    , and the part of it included in 
                        Nebraska
                    ; emigration to the Pacific coast and intervening territory; early mails; building of
                    the earliest railroads west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , are also a part of this varied, vivid and often flash-lit history.
            Ten full-page illustrations and a good map of the 
                        Nebraska
                     country add to the attractiveness and usefulness of the volume.  As a source history of this country from 1808 to 1861 it is one of the
                    best volumes available.
         
         
            
               The Wilderness Road to 
                            Kentucky
                        ; Its Location and Features. By WM. ALLEN PUSEY, A.M., M.D. George H. Doran
                    Company, 1921.
            THE author in this book has achieved what he states in his preface was his
                    aim—"the location of the famous Wilderness Road to 
                        Kentucky
                    , along with its characteristic features." The location is given in a clear,
                    concise manner, intermingled with stirring, romantic scenes vividly depicted, which keeps
                    one's interest always alert.
            Mr. Pusey qualified for this work by gleaning his material from notes made by old pioneers who
                    traversed this road and by then traveling over the road himself, in order to confirm these accounts.
                    The printing is of heavy type, which makes the book easy to read. The binding is of excellent
                    quality. The book is profusely illustrated, being literally filled with picturesque scenes along the
                    Wilderness Road. It also contains nine maps. The 131 large pages constitute a wealth of information
                    concerning the road, arranged in readable order.
            BARNEY G. CROWE
            
         
         
            
               Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the Year 1918. Vol. I. 
                        Washington
                    , 1921. Pp. 487.
            IN this first volume the secretary of the association summarizes the business
                    transactions of the executive council, the president's address, and a group of papers
                    relating to American agricultural history. For instance, among these documents, he gives first, the
                    Proceedings of American Historical Association in 1918; second, Vagaries of Historians; third, Brief
                    History of the Sheep Industry in the 
                        United States
                    . On this particular subject there are many illustrative maps showing the rate of
                    progress from 1840 to 1915. There are also a number of valuable tables. Fourth, Dr. John Mitchell,
                    Naturalist, Cartographer, and Historian. Fifth, Historical Aspects of the Surplus Food Production of
                    the 
                        United States
                    , 1862-1902. Sixth, Early Days of the Albemarle Agricultural Society. Seventh, Minute
                    Book of The  Albemarle Agricultural Society and the eighth,
                    which is the final part of this volume, contains a directory of the American Historical association,
                    which is at the same time to all intents and purposes a directory of the historical profession in
                    America.
            HELEN M. SNODDY
            
         
         
            
               History of the 
                            United States
                        . By CHARLES A. BEARD, and MARY R. BEARD. Macmillan Company, 1921.
            FROM time to time marked changes appear in the style and texture of histories.
                    These changes are chiefly noticed in advanced histories and only indirectly affect elementary
                    histories. This book, however, designed for the seventh and eighth grades, follows out the new civic
                    style of history text. The authors have interpreted a study of American history to mean a study in
                    American civics and economics. It is divided into seven parts each of which carries out this idea.
                    The first deals with colonial development, eliminating the accounts of discovery and exploration
                    and, beginning with a discussion of colonization, with causes and effects on each colony, especially
                    as to economic, social, and political phases. The second division takes up the Revolution, omitting
                    the military history and emphasizing the causes and effects. The third period, "Foundations
                    of 
                        Union
                     and national politics," bridging the period between the "making of
                    the constitution," and the "Presidency of 
                        Jackson
                    ," continues in the same manner with principles, rather than events, receiving
                    the greatest emphasis.
            "The West and Jacksonian Democracy," however, begins a new study. This is the
                    tendency toward 
                        Union
                     with the financial measures stressed and slavery assuming more importance. The
                    "Sectional Conflict" which follows is treated like the
                    "Revolution" with little or no military history. Statesmen rather than soldiers
                    are responsible for the Civil war.
            The last portion of the book is pure civics, taking up great movements such as industrial expansion,
                    reconstruction, and labor and their effects upon politics. Most stress is laid on contemporary
                    history ending with the election of President Harding.
            On the whole, this history is worthy of commendation. It carries out its plan of institutional
                    development consistently  throughout. If civics is to be the
                    history of the future this book can be considered a worthy text. Its illustrations are good; its
                    style is excellent, and its discussions accurate. It does not dwell on chronology nor on military
                    history.
            On the other hand it contains little historical narrative nor does it advance with the mathematical
                    procedure of events common in such texts. Whether or not it will make a good text depends upon the
                    light in which history is regarded and the advancement of historical thinking.
            H. M. B.
         
         
            
               The Land of the Miamis. By ELMORE BARCE, Fowler, Indiana. The Benton Review
                    Shop, 1922. Pp. 422.
            A book of this nature will appeal to those who are interested in a readable, historically accurate
                    account of the early struggles for supremacy in the Old Northwest, from the end of the Revolution to
                    the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    .
            The author is a historian, writing in an attractive style and securing his material from a wide
                    variety of sources. The greater part of the book is based on the letters written to the war
                    department by Gov. Wm. H. Harrison. References are also made to a bibliography of practically one
                    hundred volumes.
            The English contrary to the provisions of the treaty of 1783 refused to give up their posts in the
                    Northwest. They attempted to maintain possession of the fur trade by inciting the Indians to war
                    against the Americans who were crowding in from the south and east. Within this territory was one of
                    the most important tribes of the middle west. These Miamis could not help but resist when they found
                    themselves being crowded farther away from the rich hunting grounds of southern Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                    . To share their hunting grounds with the Shawnees coming from the south; the Wyandots
                    from the east; and the Pottawatomies from the northwest, earlier, had been enough to try their
                    patience to the breaking point. But now to see the grazing land of the buffalo and the home of the
                    beaver completely destroyed was too great a blow. The pelts of these animals when carried to the
                    northern British posts meant a wealth of comfort and pleasure for the Indian. The loss of these was
                    undoubt edly  due cause for the Shawnee brothers, Tecumseh and
                    the Prophet to attempt a coalition of the tribes in an effort to drive the early settlers back
                    across the 
                        Ohio
                    . On the other hand the author is correct in attempting to justify the acts of the early
                    Kentuckians and others who matched their wits against the treachery of the red man in an effort to
                    gain control of the rich unutilized prairie lands beyond the 
                        Wabash
                    . This narrative, interesting as a novel, but yet a sound piece of historical
                    information, enriched by extracts on the wild animals, such as the beaver and the buffalo, a clear
                    topographical description of the country, a close-up view of the life of the Indian, and the early
                    pioneers who won this domain, comes to a climax with the breaking of the Indian power in the
                    northwest and the ascendancy of American control in an account of the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    .
            V. O. PINKERTON
            
         
         
            
               Northern Ute Music. Bureau of American Ethnology, 1922. By FRANCES DINSMORE, 1918, 
                        Washington
                    , Gov. Printing office. Pp. 213.
            THIS book is interesting and useful to students and others interested in folk
                    lore, music or Indian history. It deals with the Ute Indians and their customs of living. In the
                    account are included a history of the Ute Indians, origin of their name, tribal organization,
                    descriptions of their homes, temper, language, food, industries and general customs.
            The author, by careful investigation and research compiled a very fine collection of facts and
                    interesting data on the Utesi.
            MARY E. CREIGMILE
            
         
         
            
               Lincoln, An Accsunt of His Personal Life, Especially of Its Springs of Action as
                        Revealed and Deepened by the Ordeal of War. By NATHANIEL WRIGHT STEPHENSON. Bobbs-Merrill Co., 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1922. Pp. 474.
            THE author has evidently made some effort to add something to our knowledge of
                    Lincoln, although the result is doubtful. He has neither understanding nor appreciation of pioneer
                    life and his indulgence in mysticism is entirely uncalled for in treating of so simple a character.
                    Speaking of Thomas Lincoln: "An incurable vagrant he came at last to  the psychological moment when he could no longer impose himself on his
                    community." "Somehow he obtained a rattletrap wagon and two horses."
                    "Vagrants, or little better than vagrants, were Thomas Lincoln and his family making their
                    way to Indiana." "It is said he (Lincoln) astounded his father by refusing to own
                    a gun. He earned terrible whippings by releasing animals caught in traps." "In
                    central 
                        Kentucky
                    , a poor village was Elizabethtown, unkempt, chokingly dusty in the dry weather, with
                    muddy streams instead of streets during the rains, a stench of pig-sties at the back of its
                    cabins." "In the rough and nondescript community of Pigeon Creek, a world of weedy
                    farms, of miserable mud roads, of log farm houses." "Thomas Lincoln the next year
                    journeyed back to 
                        Kentucky
                     and returned in triumph to Indiana bringing as his wife an old flame of his who had
                    married, had been widowed, and was of a mind for further adventures." "Yet she was
                    a kind stepmother to Abraham who became strongly attached to her." It is generally assumed
                    that a biographer knows something of the times, of the people, and manners among which his victim
                    flourished, but perhaps it is not necessary. No great harm can come from such writing about Abraham
                    Lincoln, but the libel on Thomas Lincoln and his wives is vicious.
         
         
            
               A History of 
                            Minnesota
                        . By WILLIAM WATTS FOLWELL, President Emeritus of 
                        Minnesota
                     University. Vol. I, 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society, Saint Paul, 1921. Pp. 533.
            IT is a pleasure to turn from the deluge of historical trash thrown on the market at present to the
                    work of an honest historian. Dr. Folwell has at his elbow the collections of the 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical society. He was president of 
                        Minnesota
                     university from 1869 to 1884, was a soldier in the Civil war, and has been actively
                    employed in governmental duties for near a half century. Besides thus understanding his state and
                    his people and besides having a personal acquaintance with the geography of his state, he writes in
                    a pleasing style. The volume under review covers the territorial period, from the appearance of
                    Radisson and Groseilliers, about 1660, down to the constitutional convention in 1857.
            
            A large part of the story is concerned with the Indians and their management by the government. The
                    reviewer was especially interested in this, having waded through a corresponding chapter of Indiana
                    history. There was so much peculation in Indiana, engaged in by such prominent characters, that it
                    seemed wrong to tell the whole truth but the story told by Dr. Folwell relieves one of all
                    apprehension. The Indian agents of early Indiana were mere kindergartners and what is more
                    interesting a number of the same men who learned the rudiments of the game in Indiana became masters
                    in 
                        Minnesota
                    . Soldiers like Josiah Snelling, Amos Stoddard, Zebulon Pike, Stephen Long, Henry
                    Leavenworth, and others also remind us of the close connection of the two states. Among the early
                    governors was Col. Willis A. Gorman, a hero of the Mexican war and a congressman from Indiana
                    previous to his appointment as governor. The struggle for cheap lands, the tribulations of the
                    squatters, the building of railroads and the political strife all remind us in Indiana that our
                    experiences were not unique—not even the contest with the British fur traders. It is an
                    attractive story and one wonders why a sane person who can get such material will read any other
                    kind. It is to be hoped Dr. Folwell will be able to continue the work, for it hardly seems probable
                    a better author can be found.
         
         
            
               Problems in American Democracy. By THOMAS ROSS WIJliamson, Smith College. D. C. Heath & Co., 1922. Pp. 567.
            THIS, I presume, is intended as a high school text in civics. First, as to two or
                    three very minor matters. It seems the author has exceeded the limit in his acknowledgments. There
                    is quite a little space wasted in the text telling what has been done or what is to be done. The
                    "helps" at the end of the chapters are rather elaborate. These are not serious and
                    are not offered as serious criticisms. The plan of the text is, first to present the concrete needs
                    for government, that is, the problems confronting us, here and now; then the explanation of the
                    government which must meet these problems. The problems are classified as economical, social and
                    political. Rather each problem has three phases, economical, social and political. The discussions
                    are clear and reasonably impartial.  The problems are well
                    stated. It might in most cases have been better to reserve judgment, leaving conclusions to teacher
                    and class. Aside from class room use the book contains a fine, clear resume of our situation for the
                    average citizen.
         
         
            
               Messages and Letters of William Henry Harrison, Volume I, 1800-1811. Edited by
                        LOGAN ESAREY, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana Historical Commission, 1922. Pp. XXXIV, 744
            This volume is the seventh of the Indiana Historical Collections, and the first in a series of
                    Governors' Messages and Letters to be publshed by the Indiana Historical Commission. The
                    second volume in the series will appear soon. It will complete the Harrison papers.
            In the volume under review, the editor has brought together much matter in addition to messages and
                    letters of Governor Harrison. Speeches, military orders, resolutions of the territorial assembly,
                    proclamations, and various other official notices and instructions are included. The volume also
                    includes many letters from the war department, and several from President Jefferson. The collection
                    is a valuable one which will prove helpful to all students of the history of Indiana territory, and
                    indeed to all who are interested in the history of the west, at that period.
            The beginnings of a colony west of the Alleghanies are no less interesting than the beginnings of a
                    colony along the Atlantic coast. Problems of government confronting the governor of a territory, the
                    agent of the American federal government, were no less important than those that had confronted
                    governors sent from Great Britain to the old thirteen colonies. The pioneers of early Indiana had to
                    solve problems very similar to those solved by the early settlers of the seaboard communities.
                    Often, the questions and tasks that faced the western colonists were more perplexing and difficult.
                    The contributions to American ideals and institutions by those pioneers who established civilization
                    in western areas where none had existed before were no less valuable than those of colonists of the
                    older areas to the east of the mountains.
            The Ordinance of 1787 provided a scheme of dealing with colonies that was new to colonial history,
                    and Governor Harrison  in carrying out this scheme was applying
                    a political program without precedents to guide him except those furnished by recent experience in
                    the older portion of the Northwest territory. In addition to the source matter presented in the
                    Harrison papers throwing light on the Indian history of the time, on the life and customs of the
                    pioneers, on the public lands question, and on the slavery issue, we have evidence of how well the
                    scheme of colonial government operated. The people rejoiced in the opportunity to pass from the
                    first stage to the second, and were inspired when they looked forward to the time when statehood
                    would be conferred.
            In his address to the new General Assembly on July 29, 1805, Governor Harrison said: 
                        By a compact which is coeval with the establishment of government northwest of the 
                                Ohio
                            , the right of being admitted, as soon as our population will justify, into the
                            great family which composes the American Union, is firmly secured to us. Let us unite Our
                            exertions, fellow citizens, to hasten a consummation which is to restore to us all our
                            political rights, and to place us in the elevated station of a free, sovereign, and
                            independent State, equal to our sister States in dignity and rights. (P. 158.)
                    
            
            How many governors of colonies in the history of the world to that time had been privileged to utter
                    such inspiring words. In the reply of the house of representatives we have the following: 
                        We look forward with peculiar satisfaction to the period when our population will enable us
                            to assume the dignity of a stable government …; and we will readily concur in any
                            measure that will have a tendency to promote our political emancipation. (P. 160.)
                    
            
            The response of the Legislative Council is even more eloquent of the capacity of the western pioneer
                    leaders to appreciate the political significance of the fundamental provision of the Ordinance of
                    1787: 
                        Although we are not as completely independent in our legislative capacity as we would wish to
                            be, yet we are sensible that we must wait with patience for that period of time when our
                            population will burst the trammels of a territorial government, and we shall assume a
                            character more consonant to republicanism, and which alone will secure to the inhabitants of
                            the territory a full participation of the rights now enjoyed  by the citizens of the 
                                United States
                            . That period we hope is not far distant. (P. 160.)
                    
            
            The publication of this volume is an event in Indiana. The thanks of all interested in the
                    preservation of the sources of our history are due to the Historical Commission and to the editor,
                    who has done his work so well. Our General Assembly should have made possible years ago the
                    undertaking of which the publication of this volume is a beginning. May no future session of the
                    Indiana legislature fail to give adequate support to the work of the Indiana Historical Commission.
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
            
         
      
      
         
      
   
