
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 32, Issue 2, pages 95-188. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:32+issue:2+year:1936&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Hugh McCulloch Moves West∗
            
            By RAYMOND J. REECE
            
            
               
                  
                     
                        What then shall I speak of? The West? Aye, the West—the growing, prosperous
                  West—the land of broad rivers and rich prairies; and, as some say, of knaves and
                  pickpockets—of visionaries dreaming of eminence and fortune, and bankrupts who have removed
                  thither, to get rid of the impolite calls of their creditors.
                        Between you and me, my friend, I have almost concluded to make this same west the place of my future
                  abode. You know also that it is not a characteristic of mine to be visionary. I have weighed the
                  advantages and disadvantages of a removal in opposite and equally poised scales. I have considered the
                  matter dispassionately, deliberately, seriously, and have come to the conclusion that it will be
                  decidedly for my interest to bid adieu to 
                              New England
                           , and to the mournful ditty of "over the hills and far away," set my
                  face toward the setting sun. The prospects of Lawyers in 
                              New England
                            are by no means cheering enough to satisfy me. The profession, even
                  now, groans with the number of its supernumerary incumbents. The people here are becoming more and
                  more enlightened, and, as I think, less and less fond of litigation. I can make a living in my
                  profession in 
                              Boston
                           —I can do the same in 
                              Maine
                           . But this is not enough. I shall never be satisfied with it, until I am confident that I
                  can do no better. I have no strong desire to be rich, but I am determined not to die poor if it can possibly be avoided. The western states are increasing with almost unparalleled
                  rapidity.
                        The expenses of living there are much less than in 
                              Massachusetts
                           . The people are more ignorant, and consequently are more inclined to litigation, and are
                  more apt to get entangled in the intricacies of the law. Professional men are more scarce, and are
                  looked upon as persons of some considerable importance.—These are some of the reasons which
                  induce me to think of bidding adieu to the land of my birth. I would not be misunderstood. I do not
                  expect that a young man can there obtain legal or political elevation without the possession of
                  uncommon powers of mind, or vigorous untiring labor. But I do think that his prospects as a Lawyer or
                  a Politician (if he enter into political life) would be better there than in 
                              New England
                           .
                        Have you concluded to remain in Kennebunk? I hope not. It is no place for a man of any degree of
                  energy. You can live there it is 
                              
                                 ∗ This paper was read before one of the sessions of the Annual
                      Indiana History Conference, held at 
                                    Indianapolis
                                  on Dec. 13–14, 1935.
                           
                            true. But are you contented, satisfied, happy? Are you willing to
                  say here I am settled for life—here I must stay, rust, die. No, my friend, quit Kennebunk
                  and go with me to the west.1
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            The young man, who penned the above letter to his friend, Robert Smith, had nothing in common with the
          knaves, pickpockets, visionaries, or bankrupts that were said to be migrating to the West. The self-analysis,
          the study of facts, the calmness in reaching important decisions, the impatience with prejudices, revealed in
          that letter, were prominent characteristics of Hugh McCulloch. Even in this friendly and confidential letter,
          he did not suggest that his physician had advised that he go West for the benefit of his health. In that
          respect, the West proved to be a suitable place of residence, as he said in December, 1837, that he enjoyed
          better health than ever before.2
            
            This young man would deserve much from the growing West, because he was fitted by native ability and training
          for leadership. He was descended from a highly respected Scotch family, that settled in Kennebunk Port, 
                  Maine
               , about 1765. His father was one of the largest ship owners of 
                  New England
                until his fortune was greatly reduced by the War of 1812.3 His brother
          Thomas, who had died early in his senior year (1817) at 
                  Harvard
               , was "the best man and the best scholar" of his class.4
          Hugh McCulloch was educated in Kennebunk, at Saco Academy, and at Bowdoin College,5 whence
          he withdrew in less than two years on account of ill health. He had good teachers, among
          them being William Emerson, a man of many admirable qualities, simple manners, and ripe scholarship; and a Mr.
          Pratt at Saco. His health having improved, he taught until 1829. In the meantime he began reading law in
            Kennebunk.6 Then he became a student at 
                  Boston
                in the law office of Joseph Dane, a nephew of Nathan Dane, reputed author of the anti-slavery
          clause of the Northwest Ordinance.7 Hugh McCulloch seemed never to have subscribed to the
          theory of 
                  
                     1 Hugh McCulloch to Robert Smith, 
                        Boston
                     , Nov. 11, 1831. The McCulloch Papers are in the possession of Mr. Ross McCulloch of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     , Indiana, who has placed them on deposit in the Library of the Lincoln National Life
              Foundation of that city. The writer was kindly permitted to use these manuscript sources, and the letters
              referred to in this paper are included in that collection.
                  
                     2 McCulloch to Susan Man, 
                        Fort Wayne
                     , Nov. 26, 1837. Miss Man, who became the wife of McCulloch in 1838, spelled her name Man, not Mann.
                  
                  
                     3
                     National Cyclopaedia of American Biography.
                  
                  
                     4 Hugh McCulloch, Men and Measures of Half a Century (
                        New York
                     , 1888), 25.
                  
                     5
                     National Cyclopaedia of American Biography.
                  
                  
                     6 McCulloch, Men and Measures, 10, 35.
                  
                     7
                     Ibid., 16–17.
               
                painless education, as he worked hard, and followed a rigid program. He
          continually and consciously learned by giving careful attention to conversations, sermons, debates in
          legislative halls, public addresses and concerts. His reading was ever varied, including such subjects as law,
          sermons, letters, speeches and Shakespeare.8 He weighed, organized, and judged all that he
          heard or read with deliberation and independence, and not infrequently expressed his own convictions in
          letters, speeches and newspaper articles. He was devoted to law and business, but they alone were too
          narrowing for his eager intellect. Through his devotion to education, the arts and sciences, religion, and
          public questions, he became a cultured gentleman, who numbered among his friends men such as the Beechers,
          Prof. Benjamin Pence of 
                  Harvard
               , Prof. Joseph Henry and Dr. Frederick A. P. Barnard of 
                  Columbia
               .9
            
            In order to better appreciate the character and ability of this newcomer to Indiana, it may be appropriate to
          notice briefly his continuing interest in such fields of human thought as education, the arts and sciences,
          religion, and politics. In numerous ways from his boyhood days in Kennebunk throughout a long life he revealed
          his devotion to education. He was always a student, who manifested real interest in the welfare of others. He
          saw the beginning of free schools in 
                  Fort Wayne
               , serving as a board member when the city had only $330.7.2 with which to operate the
          school during its first year, 1853.10 Seven years before the coming of free schools,
          McCulloch participated in the meeting at which the Methodist College (now Taylor University at Upland,
          Indiana) was organized.11 In 1858 Lyman C. Draper notified him of his election to a
          corresponding membership in the State Historical Society of 
                  Wisconsin
               .12 He enjoyed membership in the Scientific Club of 
                  Washington
               , where he associated with such men as Alexander D. Bache, great grandson of Benjamin 
                  Franklin
               , Simon Newcomb, A. A. Humphreys, Dr. Barnard, soon to become the President of 
                  Columbia
                University, and Prof. Joseph Henry of the Smithsonian Institute, with whom there grew up a very
            
                  
                     8
                     Ibid., 36; McCulloch to Susan Man, 
                        Fort Wayne
                     , Nov. 26, 1837.
                  
                     9 McCulloch, Men and Measures, 140–160,
              259–263; McCulloch to Charles Beecher, 
                        Indianapolis
                     , Feb. 9, 1852; Benj. Pence to McCulloch, 
                        Cambridge
                     , Oct. 18, 1870; Joseph Henry to McCulloch, 
                        Washington
                     , Nov. 8, 1870.
                  
                     10 Bert J. Griswold, The Pictorial History of 
                           Fort Wayne
                        
                      (
                        Chicago
                     , 1917), 419.
                  
                     11
                     Ibid., 389–390.
                  
                     12 Draper to McCulloch, 
                        Madison
                     , June 26, 1858.
               
                close friendship.13 The fact that old and proud
          eastern universities (
                  Harvard
                and 
                  Princeton
               ) conferred upon him the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws is evidence of his continuing
          intellectual interests and recognition.
            From the arts, Hugh McCulloch probably derived more pleasure and stimulation than from the sciences. The
          beautiful in nature and the arts seem never to have escaped his attention. Among many evidences of this may be
          mentioned his interest in the City Hall, 
                  St. Paul
               's, and 
                  LaFayette
                Place in 
                  New York
               ,14 the charming parks of 
                  Philadelphia
               , the fine monuments of 
                  Baltimore
               , the scenic 
                  Delaware
               , the beautiful 
                  Ohio
               , the sparkling waters of the 
                  Wabash
               , and the rolling prairies of such "great natural and artistic beauty."15 In 1852 he encouraged Mrs. McCulloch to continue her art lessons in 
                  New York
               .16
            
            Not only did he enjoy the beauties of art and literature, but his lifelong interest in music was almost a
            passion.17 As a boy he attended the services of the Methodist church, because, as he
          said, the circuit rider "excelled in singing, and the boys always hailed his coming to Kennebunk with
          the greatest delight."18 In 
                  Cincinnati
                while attending a Methodist revival meeting, he confessed that he had difficulty to keep from
          singing and shouting with the rest when they began to sing one of their favorite revival hymns.19 In his letter of the twenty-fifth of January, 1837, he mentioned to Miss Man his uncontrollable
          love of music and the enjoyment just derived from a musical program rendered by the music teacher of the
          Female Academy in 
                  Indianapolis
               .20 Miss Man hereupon decided that she must learn music. She practiced three
          hours every day, though she had to go to her Uncle Bailey's home for the use of a piano. She was also
          given voice lessons by Mrs. Newton, who thought she learned fast.21 By October she had
          learned to play and sing such numbers as "The Mistletoe Bough," "Those Evening
          Bells," and "Oh No, We Never Mention 
                  
                     13 McCulloch, Men and Measures, 261–267.
                  
                     14
                     Ibid., 35.
                  
                     15
                     Ibid., 36, 85, 91.
                  
                     16 Susan McCulloch to McCulloch, 
                        New York
                     , Apr. 13, 1852.
                  
                     17 McCulloch to Susan Man, 
                        Indianapolis
                     , Jan. 25, 1837.
                  
                     18 McCulloch, Men and Measures, 55.
                  
                     19
                     Ibid., 55.
                  
                     20 McCulloch to Susan Man, 
                        Indianapolis
                     , Jan. 25, 1837.
                  
                     21 Susan Man to McCulloch, Plattsburg, Sept. 15, Oct. 13, 1837.
               
                Him."22 Miss Man wrote: "I think of
          you when I am learning my music and study the harder."23 McCulloch's
          letter to his daughter Louise on August 1, 1875, containing a long and an enthusiastic account of a great
          concert in 
                  London
               , proved that his interest in music continued into a late period of his life.24
            
            How difficult it would have been to be indifferent toward religion in the years during which Hugh McCulloch
          grew to manhood! During his boyhood and youth, "The Westminster Catechism was the standard of
          religious faith" in Congregational 
                  New England
               . When Unitarianism became its rival, almost all of the congregation at Kennebunk, the parents of
          Hugh McCulloch included, went with the Unitarians. Young McCulloch, like others of this era, gave considerable
          thought to questions of theology, without yielding to narrow sectarianism. He heard Methodist circuit riders,
          orthodox preachers and Unitarian pastors. He listened to the powerful, non-denominational, sailor-preacher of 
                  Boston
               , Father Taylor. The great Unitarian pulpit leaders were his favorites—Channing,
          Gannett, Pierpont, 
                  Lowell
               , Ware, Palfrey, 
                  Putnam
               , and Frothingham—while Blagden and Beecher were the leaders of the orthodox clergy
          about 
                  Boston
               .25 "Distinguished as 
                  Boston
                was in 1832 by its lawyers and literary men," McCulloch wrote, "it was still
          more distinguished by its clergy."26 In 1835 he corresponded with Elder Hargrave
          of 
                  Fort Wayne
                to ascertain whether those of other denominations, Unitarians, especially, were admitted to
          communion in the Methodist Church.27
            
            His interest in religion was sincere and deep—an interest that he never neglected in a long and
          busy life—yet he could never be a sectarian. After noting changes in both orthodoxy and
          Unitarianism, he said: "There has been evolution in religion and there will continue to be as long as
          mankind advance in culture and humanity."28 To McCulloch, her future brother-
            
                  
                     22 Susan Man to McCulloch, Plattsburg, Oct. 13, 1837.
                  
                     23 Susan Man to McCulloch, Plattsburg, Sept. 15, Oct. 13, 1837.
                  
                     24 Hugh McCulloch to Louise McCulloch, 
                        London
                     , Aug. 1, 1875.
                  
                     25 McCulloch, Men and Measures, 10–15, 27.
                  
                     26
                     Ibid., 27.
                  
                     27 R. Hargrave to McCulloch, 
                        Fort Wayne
                     , Apr. 12, 1835.
                  
                     28 McCulloch, Men and Measures, 15.
               
                in-law, capable of such sentiments, Mrs. Hankins addressed a long letter
          entreating him to "become a Christian."29
            
            A few months after this, he wrote to Miss Man, his bride-to-be, that Mr. Kankin, "our settled
          preacher … is a great favorite of mine and decidedly the best preacher I have heard in the
          West," having "a mind deeply imbued with the great principles of natural equality and civil
            liberty."30 Rev. Rankin was a "great favorite" because of his
          strong attachment to "the great principles of natural equality and civil liberty."31 McCulloch heard Lucy Stone's lectures and approved of them because her work
          helped to produce a public sentiment which resulted in a change of the laws on women's rights in
            property.32 Hugh McCulloch was years ahead of most of his contemporaries, being far more
          interested in the essence of faith than in dogma.
            In both Europe and America, events of great magnitude were shaping the future during Hugh
          McCulloch's youth and early manhood. He was attracted to the study of many public questions and
          theories, including liberalism, natural rights, and abolition.
            In the middle of the nineteenth century, McCulloch was much interested in the cause of liberalism in Europe.
          He wished that his government would protest "against the violations of the great international
          code," but he considered it absurd to think that the 
                  United States
                must back her opinion with the bayonet should her protest be disregarded. He had great faith in
          the power of public sentiment. In a letter to Charles Beecher in which he discussed these matters, he said
          that he was returning home via
               
                  Cincinnati
                with the hope of seeing Kossuth, whom he considered "one of the most remarkable men of
          the age."33
            
            In the period of the abolition crusade, Hugh McCulloch, ever favorable to natural equality and civil liberty,
          appeared to hold broad humanitarian views, but he could not approve of the methods of the Garrisonians. He
          migrated to the free soil of Indiana. En route down the 
                  Ohio
               , he read the letters of Thomas F. Marshall advocating the gradual abolition of 
                  
                     29 Mary A. Hankins to McCulloch, 
                        New York
                     , March 8, 1837.
                  
                     30 McCulloch to Susan Man, 
                        Fort Wayne
                     , Nov. 26, 1837.
                  
                     31
                     Ibid.
                  
                  
                     32 McCulloch, Men and Measures, 52.
                  
                     33 McCulloch to Chas. Beecher, Feb. 9, 1852.
               
                slavery in 
                  Kentucky
               .34 He approved of Rev. Rankin's Thanksgiving Day sermon in which the
          latter favored the cause of the slaves, without uttering anything to which a moderate slaveholder could
            object.35 His friendship with the Beechers was very genuine and sincere, although he and
          Charles, at least, seldom completely agreed on any topic.36
            
            His great interest in public questions resulted in his always having strong political convictions.37 Yet he was not regarded as a politician. His political opinions were no doubt partially
          directed and clarified in Joseph Dane's office, which was the meeting place of the leading National
          Republicans of 
                  Boston
               . He remembered especially the occasion on which they read Hayne's speech in the great
          and sensational debate of 1830. It bewildered and discouraged all except Mr. Dane, who suggested that they
          take hope and await Mr. Webster's reactions to the speech. Two days later, a speech that Mr.
          McCulloch thought was the greatest ever heard in the 
                  United States
                was delivered. His letter of introduction to western lawyers was penned by Daniel Webster who
          became a leading Whig.38 On November 26, 1837, McCulloch, a loyal member of the new Whig
          party, wrote to Miss Man: "Hurra for 
                  New York
               . She has at last it seems shaken off the yoke of her 
                  Van
                Buren leaders [and] asserted her independence. Hurra I say again to the Whigs of 
                  New York
               —They have bearded the Lion in his den [and] shorn him of his strength."39 Soon a letter from Miss Man brought news to "dear brother Hugh"40 of the Whig rejoicings at Plattsburg.41
            
            After mature deliberation, Hugh McCulloch departed from 
                  Boston
               , bound for the "growing, prosperous West." He has left the following account of
          his journey to 
                  Cincinnati
               : 
                  In April, 1833, I started for the great and unsettled West, by railroad from 
                        Boston
                      to 
                        Providence
                     , thence by steamboat to 
                        New York
                     , where I remained for a couple of days to see something of what was rapidly becoming the
              great commercial city of the Union. Here I renewed 
                        
                           34
                           Ibid., 36.
                        
                           35 McCulloch to Susan Man, 
                              Fort Wayne
                           , Nov. 26, 1837.
                        
                           36 McCulloch to Rev. Chas. Beecher, 
                              Indianapolis
                           , Feb. 9, 1852.
                        
                           37 McCulloch to George Ellery, 
                              Philadelphia
                           , Sept. 12, 1874.
                        
                           38 McCulloch, Men and Measures, 16–17, 46.
                        
                           39 McCulloch to Susan Man, 
                              Fort Wayne
                           , Nov. 26, 1837.
                        
                           40 Susan Man to McCulloch, Plattsburg, Dec. 16, 1837.
                        
                           41 In due season, Mr. McCulloch became a Republican and was present at the
                  national convention in 
                              Chicago
                            to advise that Lincoln be nominated. Allen Thorndike Rice, ed., Reminiscences of Abraham Lincoln by Distinguished Men of His Time (
                              New York
                           , 1886), 410–411.
                     
                      my acquaintance with William Emerson [brother of Ralph Waldo], who,
              some years before, had been my teacher in Kennebunk…. My visit to 
                        New York
                      was very agreeable—made so chiefly by the kindness of Mr. Emerson….
              From 
                        New York
                      I went by steamboat to Amboy, by railroad to Bordentown, and from Bordentown to 
                        Philadelphia
                      by steamboat. The only thing in this part of my journey that I especially recollect was the
              beauty of the 
                        Delaware
                     . The journey from 
                        Philadelphia
                      to 
                        Baltimore
                      was made by railroad and steamboat. I spent but a single day in either city, but long enough
              to see the charming parks in the former, and the monuments—the finest I have ever
              seen—in the latter. From 
                        Baltimore
                      I went by rail to Frederick in 
                        Maryland
                     , and thence by stage-coach, two days and one night, over the Cumberland [National] Road to
              Wheeling.
                  The 
                        Ohio
                      was in good boating condition; and the journey down the river was charming. It then deserved
              the reputation it had, of being one of the most beautiful rivers in the world, for magnificent forests,
              scarcely touched by the woodman's axe, stretched away from each bank.42
                  
               
            
            Letters from the Rev. John Pierpont to William Starr and William Green, important business men of 
                  Cincinnati
               , introduced this young traveler "to the best of its society." The Queen city
          seemed to be a second edition of 
                  Boston
                for the population was strongly American and many indeed were New Englanders. Here he met Mr. E.
          M. Huntington, later to become a 
                  United States
                circuit judge, who spoke "so highly of the prospects of Indiana" that McCulloch
          abandoned the thought of going to 
                  Illinois
               , where lived a cousin, the only person in the West whom he had known back East.43
            
            Hugh McCulloch shortly arrived at 
                  Madison
               , "one of the largest and most thriving of the Indiana towns." Of his stay here
          he said: 
                  I had a favorable letter of recommendation from Mr. Webster, which I exhibited to Jeremiah Sullivan, one
              of the leading lawyers of the State, with the request that I might be permitted to spend some time in his
              office, to become acquainted with the laws of the State and learn something of Western practice. My
              request was readily granted, and I spent four or five weeks very pleasantly in 
                        Madison
                     , devoting six hours to study, and spending the rest of the day in roaming over the
              picturesque hills which surround the city, and about the adjoining country, which was then being rapidly
              settled, chiefly by farmers from 
                        Kentucky
                     .44
                  
               
            
            Having decided to become a Hoosier, he was admitted to the practice of law in Indiana after being examined by
          Judge 
                  
                     42 McCulloch, Men and Measures, 36–36.
                  
                     43
                     Ibid., 40, 46.
                  
                     44
                     Ibid., 46–47.
               
                Eggleston of 
                  Madison
                and Judge Charles Dewey at 
                  Salem
               . By the end of May he had met most of the prominent lawyers of the state and, after an
          examination at 
                  Indianapolis
               , had been admitted to practice before the Supreme Court.45
            
            
               
                  Indianapolis
               , then only a hamlet, did not appeal very favorably to McCulloch, who at that time expected to
          open an office in southern Indiana. General Tilghman A. Howard, the 
                  United States
                District Attorney for Indiana, referred to northern Indiana as "the most inviting
          country I have ever seen, and it will soon be filled by people from 
                  New York
                and 
                  New England
               ."46 He advised the young New Englander to investigate that region.
          This advice caused McCulloch to exchange his trunk for saddle bags, to purchase a horse, saddle, and bridle,
          that he might more deliberately select a proper location. He experienced the hospitality of a real pioneer inn
          after a short day's ride to Eagle Village. His journey led through very sparsely settled country,
          over very poor wagon roads and Indian trails to 
                  Frankfort
               , Delphi, and 
                  Logansport
               . He passed a whole day at 
                  Logansport
               , spending an hour with General John Tipton, to whom he bore a letter of introduction. During the
          next two days he travelled almost alone, sighting but two cabins between 
                  Logansport
                and 
                  South Bend
               . Court having adjourned here, he rode to LaPorte. The "Wet" prairie west of 
                  South Bend
               , the sparse population in that area, and the kind invitation of Dr. Lewis G. Thompson to visit
          the doctor's city, 
                  Fort Wayne
               , caused McCulloch to turn about and ride toward the head-waters of the Maumee, where he arrived
          after three days, on June 26. While en route, he delayed to defend a client at 
                  Goshen
               . 
                  Fort Wayne
                proved to be the end of his "long and solitary, but by no means lonesome or
          tedious" journey.47
            
            While delivering the Fourth of July address at 
                  Fort Wayne
                in the summer of 1833, McCulloch suffered a chill, the beginning of a long and well-nigh fatal
          illness, from which he did not recover sufficiently to work until October. His illness, the emptiness of his
          purse by October, and the increase of business incident to the commencement of work on the 
                  Wabash
                and Erie Canal at 
                  Fort Wayne
                induced him to open an office there in October in a little building constructed for him by Dr.
            
                  
                     45
                     Ibid., 48, 70.
                  
                     46
                     Ibid., 78.
                  
                     47
                     Ibid., 79–95.
               
                Thompson. He had a good business, which enabled him to make expenses by
          the end of the year and to face the future with prospects for a successful practice.48 In
          the summer of 1834, H. O. Watts of 
                  Boston
                opened a correspondence with McCulloch about western lands. During the following winter,
          February, 1835, Watts reopened the correspondence, referring to the valuable information previously received
          and telling of a land company formed the previous year and capitalized at $100,000 to operate in 
                  Illinois
               . Watts informed McCulloch that a similar company was being planned to deal in Indiana and 
                  Michigan
                lands and asked him to become the agent for the proposed company. He wrote at length on the
          matter of salary, and the high profits that might be paid, but McCulloch did not become a land agent.49
            
            In 1835 the eleventh branch of the year-old State Bank of Indiana was being planned for 
                  Fort Wayne
               . The directors believed that Hugh McCulloch was the best qualified man available to assist in its
          organization, although he rightly disclaimed any knowledge of banking. In October he became cashier and
          manager of the Branch Bank, with the understanding that his resignation should be received after the
          organization and successful opening of the enterprise. His intention was to resume his legal practice, but he
          liked banking so much that he never sought release from it. In 1836 he was made a director in the State
            Bank.50 McCulloch was now rather definitely settled in the business world, but he had
          during the early months in 
                  Fort Wayne
                lived in a room, whose only furnishings were a bed, two splint-bottom chairs, and a dry goods
            box.51 That could not be satisfactory to one who had been accustomed to a home of
          comfort and refinement.
            Before the close of 1837, he suggested that Miss Man of Plattsburg, 
                  New York
               , decide whether their marriage should be in the spring or the summer of 1838. He asked her to
          consider the "difficulty in returning to 
                  Fort Wayne
                before the opening of the Lake," and also stated that "a summer trip up the
          Maumee during the warmest and most unhealthy season of the year" was not a pleasant prospect.52 Miss Man, who had recently taught in 
                  Fort Wayne
               , revealed her womanly interest 
                  
                     48
                     Ibid., 111–112.
                  
                     49 H. O. Watts to McCulloch, 
                        Boston
                     , Feb. 23, 1835.
                  
                     50 McCulloch, Men and Measures, 113.
                  
                     51
                     Ibid., 111.
                  
                     52 McCulloch to Susan Man, 
                        Fort Wayne
                     , Dec. 7, 1837.
               
                in home-making when she suggested that "if you expect to occupy
          the dwelling house, do speak a good word in season about closets, clothes presses, etc. If you do not advise
          the Hoosiers, they will make nothing but square rooms without halls, closets, or anything of the
            sort."53 When this charming and intelligent young lady gave up her splendid
          home, with its inspiring view across the lake and the bay towards the Green Mountains of 
                  Vermont
               
               54 to come as a bride to a frontier village of Indiana, another bond attached
          Hugh McCulloch to 
                  Fort Wayne
               . As head of a Hoosier household, where efficiency, economy, culture, ambition, and contentment
          were ever nicely intermingled, the prominent young banker—only five years away from the 
                  Boston
                law office—was well established in 
                  Fort Wayne
               , his home city until the middle of the Civil War. He retained his connections with the Bank until
          the expiration of its charter in 1857. Thereupon he became the president of the newly created Bank of the
          State of Indiana from which post he reluctantly retired only because his services were in demand at 
                  Washington
               .55 As the first Comptroller of the Currency, he organized the system of
          National Banks for our country, and as Secretary of the Treasury made an enviable reputation in solving the
          financial problems incident to demobilization of the army and to the funding of the tremendously agumented
          national debt.
            
               
                  53 Susan Man to McCulloch, Plattsburg, Dec. 16, 1837.
               
                  54 Susan Man to McCulloch, Plattsburg, Sept. 15, 1837. Fine appreciation of the
            beauty of her surroundings is found in this letter.
               
                  55 McCulloch, Men and Measures, 127–135,
            163–165.
            
         
         
         
            A History of The Indiana Internal Improvement Bonds
            By LEE NEWCOMER
            
            In 1839, the whole program of internal improvements in Indiana collapsed. Work was stopped in that year on
          all of the state projects with the exception of the 
                  Wabash
                and Erie Canal. Much of the blame for this breakdown must be laid, not on the undertaking, but on
          the business methods followed. The works contemplated were rather extensive considering the sparse population
          of the state at the time, nevertheless the internal improvement program would have had a fair chance of
          success if it had been properly managed, in spite of the great depression that followed the panic of 1837.
          However, the business methods followed by the state were anything but good.
            Since the sales of public lands granted to Indiana by Congress were disappointing about five-sixth of the
          funds necessary for the proposed work on roads, canals, and railroads had to be raised by bond issues. The
          "System" orators had promised no higher taxation, and consequently the Assembly had made no
          provision for payment of the interest on the bonds. It was necessary therefore to pay interest charges out of
          the receipts from the sale of bonds.1 The entire business of the Commissioners who handled
          the funds was poorly conducted. No records were kept. Their reports were incomplete or inconsistent and it
          seems that the bonds were signed and delivered to the members of the board to sell as best they could. The
          annual report of the Canal Fund Commissioners in 1837 is revealing. It contains the statement: "The
          Board in the contracts which were made during the present year on the sale of the state bonds, made no
          stipulations as to the kind of funds to be received…."2
            
            Agents selling the bonds seem to have taken advantage of provisions such as this. Many of the bonds were sold
          on credit or exchanged for other securities in the face of a law to the contrary. In several instances, the
          purchaser lost through speculations and could not pay. In some cases, the agent of the state was at the same
          time a member of the firm 
                  
                     1
                     House Documents (Indiana), 1887, No. 18, "Report of the Canal Fund
              Commissioners," 2.
                  
                     2
                     Ibid.
                  
               
                of brokers who took the bonds, sold them, and then failed to pay the
          proceeds. The cost to the state in negotiating the sale amounted to a fourth of the face value of the bonds.
          From a total bond issue of almost $15,000,000, the State realized $8,593,000 in cash,
          $4,000,000 in worthless securities, while about $2,000,000 was embezzled or
          misappropriated by its officers and agents.3 Much of this loss resulting from the sale of
          the bonds might have been avoided if the authorities had not been in such a hurry to complete the works
          projected. They yielded to pressure from interested citizens and indulged in the most precipitate haste in
          letting contracts.4
            
            The state government paid little attention to all these irregularities until the money began to fail after
          1839. A resolution offered in the Senate at that time referred to "notorious" current rumors
          of fraud, gross negligence, mismanagement, and wasteful, and unlawful expenditures by the Board of Internal
          Improvements. In his message of December, 1841, the Governor asserted: "Every fair and impartial mind
          must receive the impression, that Indiana has been in many cases the victim of preconcerted imposition and
            fraud."5
            
            By 1839, the state could find no more purchasers for its bonds, and, consequently, the entire system
          collapsed. Fortunately, the credit of the state failed before all the indebtedness contemplated under the
          Mammoth Bill of 1836 had been incurred. As it was, the state was bankrupt. Its income was not sufficient to
          cover interest payments. Additional money could not be raised through taxation because of the stagnation in
          business and fall in the appraisal value of all property since the panic of 1837.6
            
            The Indiana General Assembly of 1839 seemed bewildered by the state of affairs. The stealing of public funds
          went on before the eyes of the members while they tried to investigate. Petty party politics engaged the
          attention of the legislators and prevented the adoption of any measures to meet the interest payments.7 Treasury notes were issued to meet some of the state's obligations. These notes
          further upset the currency system, and then, to make the financial confusion 
                  
                     3 Logan Esarey, A History of Indiana (
                        Indianapolis
                     , 1918), I, 376–377.
                  
                     4 Elbert J. Benton, "The 
                        Wabash
                      Trade Route in the Old Northwest," Johns Hopkins Studies in History and
                Political Science, Series 21, 69.
                  
                     5
                     Senate Journal (Indiana), 1841, 19–20.
                  
                     6
                     General Laws of the State of Indiana, 1840, 228.
                  
                     7
                     Indiana Journal (
                        Indianapolis
                     ), March 14, 1840.
               
                worse, land scrip was issued and made receivable for tolls and duties on
          the 
                  Wabash
                and Erie Canal. This scrip depreciated greatly and caused contractors working on the canal to
          find it almost impossible to obtain materials and labor at a fair price owing to the inconvertibility of the
          scrip into good money. As a consequence, the work on the canal was not pushed.8
            
            A large part of the Indiana Internal Improvement bonds had been sold to the Rothschilds, Barings, and Lloyds
          of 
                  London
                and 
                  Paris
               . These creditors kept making insistent appeals for the payment of their interest.9 The 
                  London
                firms and the big 
                  New York
                banking houses had bought the bonds in the first place, but they no longer held them. They were
          interested in payment because they had sold the bonds as good securities to private individuals of small
          property and of moderate income. By this time, the bonds had depreciated to thirty cents on the dollar, but
          speculators had not acquired many of them. Most of them were still in the hands of the original purchasers.10
            
            In the hope of getting some action out of the Indiana Legislature, the bondholders hired Charles 
                  Butler
                of 
                  New York
                to look after their interests. After visiting 
                  Michigan
                on a similar mission, he reached Indiana in 1845. He gave a series of addresses over the State
          for the purpose of rallying the anti-repudiation sentiment, but no sweeping opinion for full payment could be
          aroused. Many persons believed that the State should not pay the bonds since it had been swindled out of so
          much of the money.11 Others saw no way of raising the money with which to meet the
            obligations.12
            
            The most important project included in Indiana's internal improvement program was the 
                  Wabash
                and Erie Canal. This canal had already been completed from the Maumee River to 
                  Terre Haute
                on the 
                  Wabash
               . In 1844 Congress had made a liberal land grant for its continuation to the 
                  Ohio
                River.13 A convention was assembled at 
                  Terre Haute
                during the summer of 1845 for the purpose of uniting public opinion in favor of 
                  
                     8
                     Report of the Superintendent of the 
                           Wabash
                         and Erie Canal, 1845, 144.
                  
                     9 Extra State Sentinel (
                        Indianapolis
                     ), June 17, 1842.
                  
                     10
                     Proceedings of the Canal Convention Assembled at 
                           Terre Haute
                        
                      (May 22, 1845), 15–16.
                  
                     11 Esarey, op. cit., I, 380–381.
                  
                     12
                     House Journal (Indiana), 1845, 380.
                  
                     13
                     U.S. Senate Documents, 28 Cong., 2 Sess., V. No. 11, 8–9.
               
                this extension to 
                  Evansville
               . In his opening speech, the president of the convention declared that the canal was an enterprise
          presenting "the most practicable and feasible" plan of enabling the State to liquidate the
          public debt. It was said that the federal land grant along the proposed route would be nearly enough to pay
          for the canal's construction, and, judging by the receipts of the 
                  Ohio
                canals, the extension to 
                  Evansville
                would be highly successful as a financial proposition.14 The completion of
          the canal was regarded favorably by political leaders, scientific men, business men, and farmers. Competent
          engineers estimated in 1845 that the 
                  Wabash
                and Erie Canal, if completed, would be yielding revenues of $400,000 a year by 1850
          and $500,000 a year by 1855.15 Mr. Butler was convinced of the wisdom of
          extending the canal. He told the convention: 
                  I have carefully compared the prospective profits of this canal with the certain profits of the 
                        Ohio
                      Canal … and such is the confidence of your bondholders in the revenue to be
              derived from this canal that I think they would even be willing to come forward and say to you,
              "Pay us by your State tax and otherwise, a portion of the interest on your public debt, and we
              shall be willing to look to the revenues of this canal for the balance."16
                  
               
            
            The convention earnestly recommended this plan to the people of the state.17
               
                  Butler
                went to 
                  Indianapolis
                to urge the legislators to take action but he found that the prospects there were none too
          bright. Politicians on both sides were afraid to move. The governor, who was a candidate for senator in the
          ensuing election, was afraid to commit himself. He dared not use the words "pay" or
            "tax."18
            
            In December, 
                  Butler
                spoke before the Legislature. His address urging payment was generally received with favor, and
          so he went to work with a committee to draft a plan of settlement. 
                  Butler
               's first proposal to the committee was that the state pay by taxation the whole of the
          deft and three per cent of the interest, but for the remaining two per cent the bondholders were to rely on
          the canal tolls. The creditors were 
                  
                     14
                     Proceedings of the Canal Convention at 
                           Terre Haute
                        
                      (May 22, 1845), S ff.
                  
                     15
                     Memorial of the Holders of Certificates of Stock in the 
                           Wabash
                         and Erie Canal, 1857, 3–30, passim.
                  
                  
                     16
                     Proceedings of Canal Convention at 
                           Terre Haute
                        
                      (May 22, 1845), 19.
                  
                     17
                     Address to the Citizens of Indiana (
                        Terre Haute
                     , 1845), 8.
                  
                     18 Charles 
                        Butler
                      to his wife, Nov. 29, 1845, and Dec. 7, 1846. These letters and others by 
                        Butler
                      are found in G. L. Prentiss, The Union Theological Seminary (Asbury Park,
              N. J., 1899), 454–456.
               
                also to supply one third of the necessary capital for completing the
          canal to 
                  Evansville
               . 
                  Butler
                compromised when the committee regarded this proposition as beyond the ability of the state to
          pay, and submitted a second proposition. According to this proposal, the bondholders would practically release
          the state from the payment of one-half of the entire funded debt and would make that half a charge against the
            canal.19
            
            This proposal by 
                  Butler
                was reported on favorably by the committee and its recommendation was introduced in the
          Legislature in the form of a bill. The measure was thoroughly discussed and encountered stiff opposition in
          some of the newspapers as well as in the capitol building. Heated speeches and numerous political threats were
          made during the debate. One man claimed that it sold the people out, land and all to the British.20 However, country newspapers, ministers, and numerous other groups supported the bill. One
          Sunday, the young Henry Ward Beecher preached a strong sermon in favor of the 
                  Butler
                plan to a full church containing many members of the Legislature.21 Attempts
          were made to delay action on the bill until after the elections but the measure finally came to a vote and was
          passed in January, 1846.22
            
            According to the terms of the 
                  Butler
                Bill, the old bonds were to be surrendered and new bonds issued to the holders. The principal and
          half the interest of these new securities were to be paid by the state and the other half of the interest was
          to be paid by the revenues of the canal. The state, put the canal and all lands in trust for its creditors.
          Three trustees were to be appointed, two by the bondholders and one by the state, to administer the trust. The
          bondholders were to advance $2,225,000 to complete the canal to 
                  Evansville
               . When this subscription had been made and when one-half of the old bonds had been turned in and
          cancelled, the act was to go into effect. An important provision reserved the right to the state to take over
          the canal after the creditors had secured full payment from its revenues. An option contained in the act gave
          the state the right, if it preferred to do so, to make one-half of the principal in addition to one-half the
          interest a charge against the canal. Under this option two certificates could 
                  
                     19
                     Documentary Journal (Indiana), 1845, Part II, 232 ff., "Report of Joint Select
              Committee … in Relation to the Public Debt."
                  
                     20
                     Indiana Democrat (
                        Indianapolis
                     ), Jan. 23, 1846.
                  
                     21
                     
                        Butler
                      to his wife, Jan. 4, 1846, Prentiss, op. cit., 481.
                  
                     22
                     
                        Butler
                      to his wife, Jan. 18, 1846, ibid., 489.
               
                be issued for each old bond turned into the State. One-half of these new
          certificates would be payable through taxation and the other half by the canal revenues. After the state
          should call in the old bonds "its faith and revenues shall be only responsible for the payment of
          one-half of said principal and interest … for the other half … the holders shall look
          solely and exclusively to said canal….23 It was understood by all parties that
          the state would follow this option in carrying out the bill.24
            
            The bondholders met in 
                  London
                in May, 1846, to consider the act of the Indiana Legislature. They assented to the principle of
          the payment of half of the debt from the canal revenues, but certain changes were suggested. Accordingly, 
                  Butler
                came back to Indiana in December, 1846, to present the amendments to the Legislature. A bill
          incorporating these modifications was passed on January 27, 1847. In the new act the amount to be advanced by
          the stockholders for the completion of the canal was reduced from $2,225,000 to
          $800,000. The new bill also definitely put into force the option contained in the former law.25
            
            The bondholders agreed to the new bill and soon surrendered most of their bonds. In July, the governor
          transferred the canal and the lands involved to trustees representing the bondholders in full payment and
          discharge of one-half the debt. The state levied a property tax of twenty-five cents per hundred dollars and a
          seventy-five cent poll tax to pay the other half of the debt.26
            
            A committee of the 
                  United States
                Senate later endorsed the settlement as the best that could be had under the circumstances.27 Indiana has been accused of repudiation, but the settlement of 1847 was not of that
          nature. Instead it was a settlement in which the debtor surrendered the entire property mortgaged to the
          creditor and in addition agreed
               
                  
                     23
                     State of Indiana, An Act to Provide for the Funded Debt, Passed 19th January, 1846, and an
                Act Supplementary thereto, Passed 17th January, 1847 (
                        New York
                     , 1847), 16–17.
                  
                     24 Indiana Democrat, Jan. 18, 1846; Reports of U.S.
                Senate Committees, 1847, No. 86, 11.
                  
                     25 General Laws of the State of Indiana (
                        Indianapolis
                     , 1847), 8. In his History of Indiana, I, 383, Dr. Logan Esarey contends
              that the act of 1847 differed radically from the act of 1846. In the opinion of the writer, this view is
              mistaken. Cf.
                     
                        Benton
                     , The 
                           Wabash
                         Trade Route, 71–78; Charles Roll, Indiana (
                        Chicago
                     , 1931) II, 24; Indiana Democrat, Jan. 13, 1846.
                  
                     26 Speech of Jason B. Brown on the "Wahash and Erie Canal Bond
              Question," delivered before the Indiana State Senate on Jan. 12, 1871. This speech was printed
              and is found in some libraries.
                  
                     27
                     Reports of U.S. Senate Committees, 1847, No. 86, 1–4.
               
                to pay one-half of the debt. Nevertheless, Indiana did compromise with
          her creditors. It is doubtful whether the state could have met all of its obligations, because the currency
          had been disrupted by floods of treasury notes, bank-scrip, and canal-scrip. 
                  Ohio
               , however, under similar circumstances had made the effort and had met her debt through
            taxation.28 Although Indiana's credit was strengthened after the passage of the 
                  Butler
                Bills, the reputation of the state suffered some because of the compromise, but mainly because of
          what happened afterwards.
            Later developments were, of course, unknown in 1847, and at that time both borrower and lender confidently
          expected that the 
                  Wabash
                and Erie Canal would pay its share of the internal improvements debt. There is no good reason to
          think that 
                  Butler
                and the bondholders were not satisfied with the agreement. Both thought that the canal would pay
          if extended to 
                  Evansville
               . The Act of 1847 held out to the bondholders every reasonable assurance of reimbursing themselves
          from the revenues of the canal. At that time the canal was regarded by intelligent persons both in and outside
          the state as being a main channel of transportation for future years. It was subject only to the competition
          of the 
                  Wabash
                River. After passage of the bill, 
                  Butler
                wrote to his wife saying: "My labors have been crowned with complete success. The public
          credit of Indiana is restored and her bondholders provided for."29
            
            The compromise was not forced upon the creditors. 
                  Butler
                suggested it. The bondholders sought the agreement and they definitely ratified it. The
          resolution of May 30, 1846, signed by Rothschild, Baring Brothers, and the other large foreign bondholders
          stated that they "concurred in the principle laid down in the act of the legislature … for
          the adjustment of the public debt of the State, by the payment of one moiety by the property and tolls of the
          canal, the state to be freed from responsibility on that portion of the debt….30
            
            The state of Indiana acted in good faith in 1847. It also expected the canal to pay. If the state had
          anticipated the 
                  
                     28 Esarey, op. cit., I, 880–882.
                  
                     29
                     
                        Butler
                      to his wife. Jan. 17, 1846, in Prentiss, op. cit., 492. 
                        Butler
                     , a man of high moral and religious principles, would hardly have had any interest in
              deceiving his wife in this letter.
                  
                     30
                     Reports of U.S. Senate Committees. 1847, No. 86, 11.
               
                failure of the canal, it would hardly have made such careful provisions
          for the return of the canal after the debt had been paid. In both the Act of 1846 and the Act of 1847, the
          State expressly reserved the right to resume the ownership of the work when that part of the debt authorized
          to be taken out of the canal revenues had been paid.31 As late as 1853, a competent
          observer believed that the 
                  Wabash
                and Erie Canal would again pass into the hands of the state, because of the ultimate payment of
          the whole of the debt.32
            
            However, these expectations failed to materialize. The railroads came in the next few years and took away
          most of the business of the 
                  Wabash
                and Erie Canal. With the dwindling away of the receipts of the canal, the creditors who had
          agreed to accept the canal revenues in payment for half of their bonds, saw their security steadily shrinking.
          The bondholders became alarmed and sent petitions to the Legislature urging that their rights be safeguarded.
          In 1857, a committee presented a memorial asking for payment in full because the state had allowed railways to
          be constructed that would compete with the canal. As a result, the security of the bondholders had been made
          practically valueless. The bondholders did not doubt the state's policy in granting railroad
          charters. They admitted that it was correct to take advantage of improved means of transportation, but they
          asked redress for the impairment of their security which they contended had been guaranteed from harm or
          molestation. The bondholders also argued that the state could not ignore interests which it had already
          created, and that it was therefore morally bound to make reparation.33
            
            Indiana had attempted to forestall railroad competition. After the passage of the Debt Act of 1847, the
          Legislature in three annual sessions had refused to grant charters to proposed railroads in the 
                  Wabash
                Valley, because railroads there would curtail the canal revenues.34 However,
          the Legislature was not able to withstand the strong pressure for railroads, and in a few years the 
                  Wabash
                Valley Road was constructed.
            
               
                  31
                  Act to Provide for the Funded Debt (See note 23, above), 12, 29.
               
                  32
                  
                     Israel
                   D. Andrews, Report on Colonial and Lake Trade, Senate Executive Documents (82
            Cong., 1 Sess.), No. 112, 362.
               
                  33
                  Memorial of Holders of Stock in the 
                        Wabash
                      and Erie Canal, 1857, 24–25.
               
                  34
                  Documentary Journal, 1857 (Indiana), Part II, No. 6. "Annual Report of the Board
            of Trustees of the 
                     Wabash
                   and Erie Canal," 1856, 278.
            
            
            In 1870, a case arose that involved the old issue between the state and the bondholders concerned in the
          settlement of 1847. John W. Garrett brought suit to secure payment on forty-one of the canal bonds which had
          not been turned in under the terms of the 
                  Butler
                Bill of 1847. The Governor consulted his legal advisors to determine the best method of dealing
          with this unwelcome situation. He was told that Garrett had the legal right to payment in spite of provisions
          to the contrary in the act of 1847. To refuse payment because he had failed to turn in his bonds under the
          conditions of the 
                  Butler
                Bill would amount to repudiation and would violate the section of the 
                  United States
                Constitution forbidding a state to pass a law impairing the obligation of contract.
            While the government of Indiana could not have been held for the payment of the bonds, because a state cannot
          be sued, nevertheless Garrett could have collected from the trustees of the canal. If the state had permitted
          the trustees who represented the bondholders to pay these bonds, such action would have amounted to
          confiscation of property of bondholders who had accepted the 
                  Butler
                Bill, and in that case the state would have become morally bound to rescind the 
                  Butler
                Bill and" to pay all the bondholders. Pressure of public opinion would probably have
          forced such action.35 In order to avoid such a possibility the matter was brought before
          the Legislature of 1871 which appropriated money to pay the Garrett bonds.36
            
            Meanwhile, those bondholders who had accepted the compromise of 1847 were still petitioning for a complete
          settlement of the securities held by them. Considerable bitterness was evidenced in Indiana over this attempt
          of the bondholders to abrogate the terms of the 
                  Butler
                Bill and to obtain a new settlement for half of their bonds. They were called
          "swindlers" and "robbers."37 Most of the residents of
          Indiana seemed to agree with the opinion stated by Governor Morton in 1866 when he told Baron Rothschild that
          the revolution in transportation was an "act of God" for which the state could not be held
            accountable.38 In order to settle the question and to prevent any future Legislature
          from paying the bonds, a Constitutional 
                  
                     35
                     Documents in Relation to the Suit of John W. Garrett versus the Trustees of the 
                           Wabash
                         and Erie Canal (
                        New York
                     , 1871), 55–56.
                  
                     36 Jacob Piatt Dunn, Indiana and Indianans (
                        Chicago
                     , 1919), I, 410.
                  
                     37
                     
                        Indianapolis
                     
                     Journal, Nov. 22, 1870.
                  
                     38 William Dudley Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton (
                        Indianapolis
                     , 1899), I, 461–462.
               
                amendment was adopted in 1873, which provided that no law should ever be
          passed to pay the debts in question other than according to the provisions of the 
                  Butler
                Bill of 1847.39 The ratification of this amendment closed the question of the
          Indiana Internal Improvement Bonds.
            
               
                  39 The amendment reads:
                     "No law or resolution shall ever be passed by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana,
                that shall recognize any liability of this State to pay or redeem any certificate of stock issued in
                pursuance of an 'Act to provide for the funded debt of the State of Indiana, and for the
                completion of the 
                           Wabash
                         and Erie Canal to 
                           Evansville
                        ' passed January 19, 1846; and an act supplemental to the said act, passed January
                28, 1847, which by the provisions of said acts, or either of them, shall be payable exclusively from the
                proceeds of the canal lands, and the tolls and revenues of the canal in said acts mentioned, and no such
                certificate of stocks shall ever be paid by this State."
                   This amendment became Section 7 of Article X of the Constitution of Indiana on March 7, 1873.
          
            
         
         
         
            
               
                  Lake County
                Before the Railroad Era1
            
            By BENJAMIN COHEN
            
            In studying the growth of any community, no matter what its importance in the scheme of things, the fact that
          it has drawn its strength from a variety of human elements, that its material prosperity rests on a foundation
          composed of diversified economic activities, and that it has attained its place among its sister groups in a
          short time, cannot but be of interest. When to these features, one adds that the region which is to furnish
          the subject of this study is of first rank in the affairs of the state of Indiana, further apologia are unnecessary. 
                  Lake County
                fits into the above picture very neatly. Her population almost surpasses the term heterogeneous;
          the farm, the factory, the railroad, and the steamship, each has its place of importance in her economic
          scheme; and the metamorphosis from dreary swamps to busy cities, while of almost superhuman dimensions has
          occupied only the normal span of a man's life.
            Such miracles, however, are not inexplicable. In the case presented here, we must look first of all at the
          geographic factors. 
                  Lake County
                lies at the extreme northwestern corner of the state, bounded on the north by Lake
            Michigan, on the south by the Kankakee River, on the east by 
                  Porter County
               , and on the west by 
                  Illinois
               . The center of the county lies not over thirty miles from the heart of 
                  Chicago
               , the transportation center of the interior of the nation. The situation of 
                  Chicago
                makes it necessary for all railroad lines coming from the East and South to pass through
          northwestern Indiana, with the result that this region is covered with an intricate mass of parallel,
          converging, and intersecting lines. Besides, the entire Great Lakes region can be, and has been, made to bring
          its raw materials and products to the docks of southern Lake Michigan. 
                  Lake County
                has received its full share of these benefits of natural location, while the fact that it is,
          practically, a suburb of a great city, presents certain other appreciable advantages. For example, the
          opportunity 
                  
                     1 This article is an adaptation of the first two chapters of a master's
              thesis which covered the history of 
                        Lake County
                      to the present. The thesis was written in 1931. Readers who are interested in 
                        Lake County
                     's early history will enjoy the letters and other matter written by Solon Robinson
              while a citizen of 
                        Lake County
                     . These are to be found in Volume I, of a work edited by Herbert A. Keller, Director of the
              McCormick Historical Society of 
                        Chicago
                     . The new work is being published by the Indiana Historical Bureau under the title, Solon Robinson Pioneer and Agriculturist. (See review of the first volume of this work,
              pp. 170, below.)
               
                to manage an enterprise located here from a central office in 
                  Chicago
               , and to keep land transportation costs down through proximity to a railroad-terminal city. As a
          basis for a canal system and a group of internal waterways, the Calumet Rivers are ideal. These once formed a
          single river that followed a hairpin course. The source was in 
                  Porter County
                and the stream entered 
                  Lake County
                at a point about two miles south of Lake Michigan. From this point the
          course was westward across 
                  Lake County
                and into 
                  Illinois
                to the site of Blue Island. Here the river turned eastward, reentered 
                  Lake County
                and reached the Lake not far to the northwest of the point where the upper part of the river left 
                  Porter County
               . A new channel to Lake Michigan was opened by Indians through the marshes
          between Wolf Lake and Calumet Lake. This produced two rivers. The southern one, which flows westward across 
                  Lake County
                and which, discharges into Lake Michigan at South 
                  Chicago
               , is the Little Calumet. The northern one which flows eastward and which for many years discharged
          into the Lake a little west of the 
                  Porter County
                line, is the Grand Calumet.2
            
            Although much of the land in 
                  Lake County
                is former Lake Michigan bottom, the general contour of the district and the
          quality of the soil vary considerably. There was a good deal of low swamp land around the "south
            bay"3 of the lake, but it has practically all been drained and reclaimed.
          Proceeding to the central and southern townships, one finds that the land is no longer a part of the area once
          covered by the lake, and it is not so level as that of the northern areas. Here, there is a noticeable change
          in the quality of the soil as well, for the white and yellow sands of the lake shore give way to a white clay,
          and finally to a deep, rich, black soil. These rolling prairie lands rival those of the 
                  Illinois
                prairies farther west. A writer of the middle period made this comment: "There is the
          rich black soil of the prairie and the still deeper and richer soil of the high and dry marsh. The large Cady
          marsh, the Calumet and Kankakee marshes, and other 
                  
                     2 Timothy Horton Ball, 
                        
                           Lake County
                        , Indiana, from 1834 to 1872 (
                        Chicago
                     , 1873), 10. Early maps indicate the course of the original Calumet and later ones show the
              courses of the two rivers. Since the founding of Gary and the growth of the general urhan area further
              changes have been made in the drainage system of the district. The writer became acquainted with much of
              the geography of this area through personal observation.
                  
                     3 This name is applied to the southern extremity of the Lake because of its
              bayshaped appearance.
               
                smaller ones, contain many thousands of acres of land that must one day
          become very valuable."4 This prophecy has been very adequately fulfilled, for the
          fertile fields of Cedar Creek, West Creek, and Eagle Creek townships lie in the area once rendered valueless
          by the flooding of the Kankakee, while the Calumet marshes now furnish the sites of residences and stores in
          prosperous towns. About midway between the northern and southern boundaries of the county, runs the almost
          imperceptible watershed which divides the streams flowing into the Lake and finally reaching the Atlantic,
          from those which contribute to the 
                  Mississippi
                through the Kankakee, the Desplaines, and the 
                  Illinois
               , eventually mingling with the waters of the Gulf of Mexico. These, then, are the somewhat
          uninteresting geographic features of the five hundred square miles of territory which have experienced such
          phenomenal changes.
            The early history of this area is not very well known. It is thought that in 1672 Father Claude Allouez and
          Father D'Ablon, French Missionaries, visited the Indians in the Calumet Region, and that a little
          later Father Marquette went down the Calumet River to its mouth, the present site of Gary Beach.5 La Salle is supposed to have used the route around the lake shore in his journeys between 
                  Chicago
                and 
                  Fort St. Joseph
                on the 
                  St. Joseph
                River, and it is fairly certain that he traveled by way of the Kankakee in going from 
                  Fort St. Joseph
                to the 
                  Mississippi
               .6 It is probable that the Calumet and Kankakee marshes furnished a profitable
          fur trade.
            In the great struggle between 
                  France
                and 
                  England
                for colonial empire, the lands in the Great Lakes area were the scene of many bitter battles. The
          Potawatomi Indians, the principal tribe in what is now northern Indiana, were participants in these struggles,
          as well as in the conspiracy of Pontiac. In the latter disturbance, they participated in the attack on 
                  Fort St. Joseph
                and in the peace parley at 
                  Detroit
                in 1764. During the Revolution they also stirred up trouble, which was not ended till the Treaty
          of Fort Harmar, at the mouth of the Muskingum in southeastern 
                  Ohio
                (1789), in which the Indians promised to keep peace. After the Treaty of Greenville 
                  
                     4 Ball, 
                        
                           Lake County
                        , Indiana, from 1834 to 1872, 13–14, quoting from Darby's Universal Gazeteer.
                  
                  
                     5
                     History of the Lake and Calumet Region, edited by Thomas H. Cannon (
                        Indianapolis
                     , 1927), I, 22, 80–32.
                  
                     6
                     Ibid., 26–28, 82.
               
                in 1795, the fur trade in the Calumet Region took on new life. Roads were
          laid out in what is now northern Indiana, one route running from 
                  Fort Wayne
                to the site of 
                  Chicago
                through the present 
                  Lake County
               . Prominent among the fur traders were Joseph Bailly, who kept the post now known as Baileytown
          (or Baillytown), an Englishman named William Burnet, and two negroes, DeSaible and Mai. 
                  Fort Dearborn
               , established in 1804, was the center of this trade until the massacre of 1812, and again after
          the fort was rebuilt in 1816. During this period, the lands along the Calumet served as a short cut for the
          Indians who were going from the East to the lands of the Mini and the Sioux. The famous Sauk (or Sac) Trail
          cut across the present "LaPorte, Porter and Lake Counties to Joliet, on the western border of the
          Sauk Country.7
            
            In 1828 the national government bought from the Potawatomis a strip of land ten miles wide across the
          northern border of Indiana and touching the Southern tip of the lake. By another treaty, made in 1932, all the
          Indian lands in Indiana were purchased, and while the former owners continued to hunt and fish in the
          game-filled marshes of the Calumet and the Kankakee, their regime in northern Indiana was over. Of course,
          some of the Indians laid "floats"8 on lands purchased from them, but
          where these conflicted with the land-grabbing aims of the later settlers, the native had to make way for the
            newcomer.9 In 1836 the last meeting of the Potawatomis was held at 
                  Chicago
                under the presidency of their chief, Alexander Robinson (Chee-chee-bing way), after which
          practically all of them moved to their reservation in 
                  Kansas
               .
            In the early thirties, Hart, Steele and Sprague began to run stage-coaches from 
                  Detroit
                to 
                  Chicago
                by the lake shore route. Another stage line followed the present Dunes Highway route. As the
          stage coach traffic between these two developing centers grew, it pointed the way for the future development
          of the county, and at least made it fairly certain that, if nothing else, the lake shore region would become a
            
                  
                     7
                     A Standard History of 
                           Lake County
                        , Indiana and the Calumet Region, edited by William Frederick Howat (
                        Chicago
                     , 1915). I, 13–14.
                  
                     8 A "float" was sort of land warrant issued to the Indians from
              whom land had been purchased by the government. It permitted the holder to choose, within certain limits,
              any piece of land he desired and to own it. It is said that 
                        Crown Point
                      stands on land once chosen by an Indian as his "float," but that the
              Laporte land agent was persuaded to shift it to some other lands. Altogether, about ten or twelve sections
              were included in these "floats," most of them lying along the Calumet.
                  
                     9 Ball, 
                        
                           Lake County
                        , Indiana, from 1834 to 1872, 216.
               
                very busy shipping area. The immediate result of this traffic, however,
          was the beginning of 
                  Lake County
                settlement by tavern keepers, who saw in the large passenger business an assurance of a
          profitable future for their enterprises. In 1833 there was one tavern along the Lake, Mann Tavern, situated at
          the mouth of the Calumet River.10 It was a shameful apology for a place of entertainment;
          small and uncomfortable, it nevertheless accommodated fifty travelers upon occasion.11 A
          description of a tavern on the Lake beach kept by a man named Berry will show the conditions typical of those
          to be met with on the dreary trip from 
                  Michigan
                City to 
                  Chicago
               : "The food was flour and coffee, without meat, butter, milk, or sugar, and the price of
          grain and provisions sufficiently high to satisfy an ordinary landlord, oats for horse feed costing three
          dollars a bushel at one of these stage houses."12 With such profits offering
          themselves to the host, there is little wonder that these taverns began to appear in greater numbers on the
          worthless sands of the beach.
            In the summer of 1834, a group of surveyors under a certain St. Clair came into the present boundaries of 
                  Lake County
                and laid off the land, which was then still included in LaPorte County, into sections. They
          camped at the present site of 
                  Crown Point
               . During the period occupied by this work, a man named William Butler appeared and laid out four
          claims, two for himself and brother, and two for his friends, George and Theodore Wells. After putting up some
          log cabins, 
                  Butler
                left. During the same autumn, Charles Wilson, Richard Fancher and two others came to Cedar Lake
          from Attica, Indiana. Fancher staked off a claim in Section 17, near the Lake which now bears his name. Wilson
          and the other two men took up land near Cedar Lake. Seeing no chance to spend the winter with any degree of
          comfort in this uninhabited region, the men returned to the 
                  Wabash
                Country with the intention of returning in the spring. From 
                  Jennings County
               , Indiana, there now arrived probably the most illustrious of all the early settlers, Solon
          Robinson. He and his family were guided to the place where the surveyors 
                  
                     10 The mouth of the original Calumet and later the mouth of the Grand Calumet is
              the one meant here.
                  
                     11 James H. Luther "History of Northern Indiana," in 
                        
                           Lake County
                        , Indiana, 1884, edited by T. H. Ball (
                        Crown Point
                     , 1884), 121. This volume will be referred to below as Ball (ed.), 
                        
                           Lake County
                        , Indiana, and the one mentioned previously, as Ball, 
                        
                           Lake County
                        .
                  
                  
                     12 Ball, 
                        
                           Lake County
                        
                     , 20–21.
               
                had stayed by a man named Hurlburt. The Hornors, David and Henry, Dr.
          Thomas Brown, Henry Wells, and Luman A. Fowler came to Cedar Lake, staked out claims and returned to their
          homes on the 
                  Wabash
               . The only two permanent homes started in this year were those of Thomas Childers at School Grove
          in Center Township, and of the Robinsons at the present site of 
                  Crown Point
               . A man named Ross is supposed to have settled in 
                  Lake County
                somewhat earlier, but our account of him is very obscure.13
            
            In the next two years colonization began in earnest. A settlement was made in the south central portion of
          the county near the later town of 
                  Lowell
               . New settlers came in from 
                  Jennings County
                and the Robinson camp became the nucleus of a small hamlet. Fancher now returned to his claim and
          the Browns and Hornors came back to Cedar Lake. Milo Robinson of 
                  New York
                came to his brother's settlement and soon opened a store. Pioneers began to come in from 
                  New England
               . Prospects were very favorable for the development of a thriving farm community in this region.
            By the winter of 1835–1836, the Indiana Legislature saw fit to divide the large territory of
          Laporte County into smaller units. The 
                  Lake County
                area was now made a part of 
                  Porter County
               , a new political division cut out of the old LaPorte County. This status remained only until
          February, 1837, when 
                  Lake County
                was formed from Porter. Somewhat later in the year, 
                  Lake County
                was divided into three townships, North, Center, and South, the first two of which still exist,
          although greatly modified in size and boundaries. Elections were held, and a justice of the peace chosen for
          each township.
            One problem, however, of great consequence which had been foreseen remained to be solved. Suppose the titles
          of these first settlers to the land, based as they were solely on squatters' rights, should not be
          secured? Then all the labor and hardship of creating homesteads in the area would not benefit these pioneers.
          Surely some means of cooperating to keep their holdings intact should be devised. As early as July 4, 1836, a
          meeting was called at the home of Solon Robinson, and the "Squatters' Union of 
                  Lake County
               " came into being. A constitution was drawn up, providing: (1) that if Congress should
          not pass a law securing the rights of the 
                  
                     13 Cannon (ed.), History of the Lake and Calumet Region, I,
            148.
               
                squatters before the lands were placed on public sale, then the Union
          would secure the rights of its members by "such measures as may be necessary"14 (2) that three men be constituted a County Board of Arbitrators and that a man be appointed
          Register of Claims, in order to settle disputes between settlers regarding their claims; (3) that each
          congressional township, or any settlement of twenty members, could elect a Board of Arbitrators to carry on,
          locally, the same functions performed by the County Board; (4) that any white person holding land with the
          purpose of becoming a settler should be allowed to have only one-fourth of a section, except that one-fourth
          of that amount 15 of timber land might be added to give the settler a sufficient supply
          for his needs; and (5) that persons who obtained land only for the sake of speculation should have their lands
          taken away and sold, the proceeds reverting to the treasury of the Squatters' Union. Evidently these
          pioneers meant to have and to hold the fertile lands which they had occupied. It was with this same
          determination that they went to the Public Lands Office in Laporte in 1839 to attend the auction sales of the
          lands, but in bidding for their lands they met with no opposition, and were able each to buy his claim. The
          speculators were to have their inning, however, as we shall see later.
            Early in the year 1837, 
                  Lake County
                began its existence as a separate political unit. An act of the Legislature passed in January of
          that year provided that after February 15, 
                  Lake County
                was to be independent of 
                  Porter County
               . In March, Henry Wells received a sheriff's commission from 
                  Indianapolis
               , and an election was ordered. A total of seventy-eight votes were cast and the following county
          officials were chosen: associate judges, William Clark and W. B. Crooks; county commissioners, A. L. Ball, S.
          P. Stringham, and Thomas Wiles; county recorder, W. A. W. Holton; and county clerk, Solon Robinson.16 Elections were also held separately in each of the townships for the purpose of choosing
          justices of the peace. Peyton Russell was selected for this office in North township, Horace Taylor in Center
          Town-ship, 
                  
                     14 "Constitution of the Squatters' Union of 
                        Lake County
                     ," quoted in Ball, 
                        
                           Lake County
                        
                     , 40–48.
                  
                     15 That is, one-sixteenth of a section (forty acres), making a possible total of
              two hundred acres.
                  
                     16 In August, Luman A. Fowler was elected sheriff to supersede Wells, and Robert
              Wilkinson was elected probate judge. At the first meeting of the county commissioners on April S, John
              Russell was appointed County assessor.
               
                and E. W. Bryant in South township. At Cedar Lake, Milo Robinson was
          elected justice of the peace for that vicinity. A log building was put up by the Robinson brothers during the
          summer end served as a court house and church for several years. With this year, also, the claim register
          comes to a close.17
            
            There ensued, within the next few years, a very interesting struggle over the location of the county seat,
          which was prophetic of the internal strife which was to characterize the county in later years. After the
          organization of the County, sessions of the new court were held at Robinson's court house for a year
          before the locating commissioners took any action.18 The Legislature established the
          temporary court house at Milo Robinson's residence.19 It was impossible at this
          time to locate the court house permanently, since the land in 
                  Lake County
                was still practically all owned by the federal government, and continued to be until the land
          sales at Laporte in March, 1839. The Legislature also appointed two new members to the locating commission.
          Again the commission failed to function, and again the Legislature was compelled to act. Thus, in February,
          1839 an entirely new commission was set up with the power to determine the location of the county seat. In May
          the commission met at Robinson's court house. A glance at the claimants to the honor to be awarded
          will perhaps be interesting.
            In 1835 or 1836, two 
                  Philadelphia
                men, J. C. Davis and Henry Frederickson, and a western man, John B. Chapman, had purchased an
          Indian "float" on the Calumet, and had proceeded to lay out town lots. This was the
          beginning of the town of Liverpool in the present Hobart Township. In 1836 George Earle, an immigrant
          Englishman and a man of considerable prominence in early 
                  Lake County
               , settled in the new town. When the town lots were placed on sale in the summer of 1836, about
          $16,000 worth of them were sold. In 1839 Dr. Calvin Lilley, who had started a small settlement
            
                  
                     17 Solon Robinson had been Register of Claims since the creation of that office in
              1836, and the records he kept were accidentally found in 
                        Kankakee City
                      years later. Ball makes extensive use of these documents in discussing the period of
              settlement.
                  
                     18 The commission appointed in the legislative act of 1837 to locate the county
              seat was composed of John Sailor of Porter, J. B. Niles of Laporte, 
                        Israel
                      Rush of 
                        St. Joseph
                     , John Newell of 
                        Elkhart
                     , and William Allen of Laporte. Cannon (ed.), History of the Lake and Calumet
                Region, I, 94.
                  
                     19 Earnest V. Shockley, "County Seats and County Seat Wars in
              Indiana" in Indiana Magazine of History, X (March, 1914),
            34–85.
               
                at the northeastern shore of Cedar Lake in Center Township, died, and his
          property was obtained by Benjamin McCarthy, who named the place West Point and now offered it as a site for
          the county seat.20
            
            There were thus three contestants for the honor of being the center of the young county's
          government: Liverpool, West Point, and the Robinson location, known as 
                  Lake County
                Court House, or Lake Court House. The commissioners finally decided upon Liverpool.21 This choice, however, did not meet with the approval of a majority of the inhabitants of the
          county, and the Legislature was petitioned to relocate the county seat. A new committee was now appointed,22 and in June, after studying the advantages offered by each town under consideration, it
          met to make a final decision. The same sites were offered as before, but this time Robinson's Lake
          Court House was chosen, chiefly because the county business had been transacted there since the organization
          measure of 1837.23 Judge Clark and Solon Robinson, the two principal land owners of the
          Lake Court House settlement, gave enough land for seventy-five lots, as well as additional ground for schools
          and county buildings, and some property on the outskirts of the town.24 George Earle, the
          most prominent figure in the Liverpool settlement, was now made county agent, probably as a sop to his
          disappointment at having the county seat removed. There remained only the question of replacing the cumbersome
          name of the new county seat with a more convenient one. The name finally selected was 
                  Crown Point
               .25 During this struggle three new townships were formed from the old South
          township. They were named West Creek, Cedar Creek, and Eagle Creek, after three small 
                  
                     20
                     Ibid., 85; Ball, 
                        
                           Lake County
                        
                     , 85; E. B. Warriner, "East Cedar Lake" in Ball (ed.). Lake Co.,
              Ind., 98.
                  
                     21 Ball, 
                        
                           Lake County
                        
                     , 65–66. The statement in Cannon (ed.). History of the Lake and Calumet
                Region, I, 94–95, that Liverpool was made the county seat in 1837 is apparently
              erroneous. Moreover, the statement is internally inconsistent, for it means West Point as a contender for
              the county seat, although, as shown above, it was not founded until 1839.
                  
                     22 It was made up of Jesse Tomlinson and Edward Moore, both of 
                        Marion
                     , Barclay of 
                        Pulaski
                     , J. Lindsay of White, and D. Doale of 
                        Carroll County
                     .
                  
                     23 Cannon (ed.), History of the Lake and Calumet Region, I, 95.
                  
                     24 Ball, 
                        
                           Lake County
                        
                     , 85–85.
                  
                     25 Various origins have been assigned for this name. One suggestion is that the
              name King's Point or 
                        Crown Point
                      was chosen in honor of Solon Robinson, who was known as the "Squatter King, and this
              is probably most nearly correct. Cannon (ed.), History of the Lake and Calumet Region,
              I, 165; Ball, 
                        
                           Lake County
                        
                     , 86. Other reasons given for the choice of this name are the desire to offset the name of
              McCarthy's town, West Point, and to honor the town of 
                        Crown
                  Point, New York
                     . Ball, 
                        
                           Lake County
                        
                     , 86. The committee which selected the name was composed of Solon Robinson, Judge Clark, and George
              Earle, the county agent.
               
                streams which traverse the southern part of the county and flow into the
          Kankakee. These divisions have retained their original boundaries down to the present day.
            In these years settlement grew apace. In 1837 John Hack, a German Catholic, settled in the present St. Johns
          Township, which was later named after him.26 It was then, however, a part of Center
          Township. Hack was soon followed by a considerable group of the same nationality and religion. A little to the
          south, the Hornor settlement on Cedar Lake also received an influx of Germans, beginning in 1838. These,
          however, were Lutherans.27
            
            The year 1840 found 
                  Lake County
                an experiment, with a small body of pioneers, although the several communities gave every
          evidence of being successful. The population was only 1,468, much over half of which was engaged in
          agriculture. Oats, maize, potatoes, and wheat were the principal agricultural products. Swine and cattle were
          also raised in considerable numbers. Manufacturing was confined chiefly to grist and saw mills at the Cedar
          Lake outlet and at Woodvale in the valley of Deep River.28 The only
          town worthy of the name was 
                  Crown Point
               . The school and the church, however, had already received considerable attention from the
          pioneers. As early as the winter of 1835–1836, Mrs. Harriet Holton had conducted a school at 
                  Crown Point
               .29 By 1838 a log school house had been built on Hervey Ball's claim
          on Cedar Lake, and Mrs. J.A.H. Ball started a regular boarding and day school at Cedar Lake in the following
          year. By the summer of 1838, two church organizations had also been formed: the Methodist Episcopal Church of 
                  Crown Point
               , which was a part of the Deep River mission under the guidance of the Rev.
          H. B. Beers;30 and the Cedar Lake Baptist Church, administered by Elder French of 
                  Porter County
               .31 Apparently, there had been a very auspicious beginning of a substantial
          settlement; but the events of the next few years 
                  
                     26 His fine character is said to have led to this name for the township, and,
              later, for the town. Cannon (ed.). History of the Lake and Calumet Region, I, 144.
                  
                     27
                     Ibid., 146.
                  
                     28 A tributary of the Little Calumet, meandering through the present Hobart and
              Boss townships, then sending one branch into Center and St. Johns townships and another into Winfield
              Township.
                  
                     29 Ball, 
                        
                           Lake County
                        
                     , 241; Cannon (ed.). History of the Lake and Calumet Region, I, 548.
                  
                     30 Cannon (ed.) History of the Lake and Calumet Region, I, 453;
              Ball, 
                        
                           Lake County
                        
                     , 51, 63.
                  
                     31 Timothy Horton Ball, Northwestern Indiana from 1800 to 1900 (
                        Chicago
                      1900), 210; Ball 
                        
                           Lake County
                        
                     , 60.
               
                were to make the new community's survival a matter of serious
          doubt in the minds of many of the pioneers.
            In 1840 
                  Lake County
                participated in its first presidential campaign, the Harrison-
                  Van
                Buren contest, with its "log cabin and hard cider" appeal to the people.
          Several of the Whig settlers, including Solon Robinson, attended the great political rally at the 
                  Tippecanoe
                Battle Ground. Although the state of Indiana in that election gave a majority to Harrison and
          Tyler, 
                  Lake County
                went Democratic. Edward A. Hannegan, the Democratic candidate for Congress from the seventh
          Indiana district, received a majority of the votes in 
                  Lake County
               , but his Whig opponent, Henry S. Lane, was elected.
            It was not for political maneuvering, however, that the decade of the forties was important in 
                  Lake County
               . Economic difficulties, which were not avoided entirely by any considerable region in the
          country, now caused considerable concern here. The panic of 1837, although its worst effects on Indiana were
          delayed, finally struck the state in force in 1839 and 1840, when the 
                  Wabash
                and Erie Canal loans had rendered the state bankrupt.32 The state bank,
          though more stable than any other of its kind in the country, had gotten into difficulties and suspended
          specie payment.33 The settlers of the northwestern part of Indiana, whose right to
          purchase the lands on which they had located had not been opposed at the land sales of 1839, now found
          themselves riding the horns of a new dilemma. In accordance with Jackson's specie circular of 1836,
          the land office had refused to accept from the settlers the bank notes of all non-specie paying banks which
          were all they had to offer. With their specie practically all gone, chiefly because of the necessity of
          improving their lands, these men now had to resort to the speculators, whom they heartily despised and even
          hated. The latter, losing no time in taking advantage of the situation, offered to lend them the money needed
          for entering their claims at the land office, and in return secured mortgages on the land at interest rates of
          twenty, and even thirty, per cent. Now, to make disaster entirely inevitable, came the 
                  
                     32 Logan Esarey, A History of Indiana from Its Exploration to
              1850 (
                        Fort Wayne
                     , 1921), 423–424.
                  
                     33
                     Ibid., 458–460.
                  
                     33
                     Ibid., 458–460.
               
                crop failure of 1840. Much of the land fell into the hands of the loan
          sharks, and their victims had only one hope, that of moving westward to a kinder environment.34 Thus we find that of the early settlers who were in the County in 1837, there were remaining in the
          county in 1847 less than one-third. Taking into account the deaths which occurred in the interim, there are
          still more than half the original number who may be said to have sought new homes, most of them farther west,
          between 1837 and 1847.35
            
            Financial difficulties, however, were not the sole sources of hardship. Sickness, with its attendant
          miseries, especially the incapacitation of men for farm labor, struck this area in several waves. An epidemic
          in 1838 had contributed to the physical and financial disabilities of the squatters who bought their land in
          1839. In 1843 a wave of scarlet fever invaded this region,36 and again in 1846 a withering
          heat wave brought with it an illness which kept many of the farmers from their tasks.37
            
            Crop failures sank the settlers even deeper into the slough of despond. The blight of 1840 mentioned above,
          the rust which attacked the wheat again in 1844, and the heat, drought, and potato rot of 1845—all
          these, coupled with the low price of wheat and the fact that produce had to be hauled forty miles to 
                  Chicago
                to market, made many an originally prosperous farm a prey to foreclosure.38
            
            An additional loss of man power, though not so great as that arising from the disasters already described,
          was accasioned by the outbreak of the Mexican War in 1846. About twenty-five or thirty 
                  Lake County
                man had been enlisted at 
                  Crown Point
                in 1840 and 1841 for the Independent Military Company organized there by Captain Joseph P. Smith.
          Smith had been captain of a military company in 
                  New York
                and now took command of these volunteers. They left for Mexico in 1847, and while they took no
          part in the major engagements of the war, heat and disease killed forty-seven of them. How many of these were 
                  Lake County
                soldiers it is 
                  
                     34 Ball, 
                        
                           Lake County
                        
                     , 64–65.
                  
                     35
                     Ibid., 193. Of 249 people assessed for taxes in 1837, SO of the same persons were left
              in the county in 1847. Death had removed 27 of the 249, leaving a total of 142 who had left the county.
                  
                     36
                     Ibid., 88.
                  
                     37
                     Ibid., 91.
                  
                     38
                     Ibid., 89–90, 91.
               
                impossible to determine, but it is safe to say that this manpower could
          well have been used in the fields and villages from which it was absent for more than a year, and, in the case
          of an appreciable number, lost forever.39
            
            The election of 1848 brought 
                  Lake County
                into contact with the principles of the new Free Soil party. In September of that year a meeting
          was held at the court house in 
                  Crown Point
                under the leadership of Judge Clark. A committee appointed at this meeting aranged for several
          other gatherings to be held in the following month at various places in the county. There was, apparently,
          some reluctance on the part of the voters to participate in the new movement, for the posters announcing the
          meetings adopted a note of persuasive reassurance. One announcement, for example, asked the voters to
          "come one and all, and see what a horrible demon that free soil principle is. You shall not be
            injured."40
            
            In the election, the Free Soilers cast a considerable vote, and later threw their support to the Republican
          party. This element probably helped to make 
                  Lake County
                one of the staunchest Republican counties in Indiana in later elections.
            At the close of this decade, the new settlement was regaining its equilibrium. The dream cities were dead.
          Liverpool never recovered from the loss of the county seat. Her court house was sold and floated down the
          Calumet to be used as a tavern at Blue Island, 
                  Illinois
               .41 The Earle family, whose members had been the pillars of the
          town's progress, moved to a point a little southeast of Liverpool and there founded the town of
          Hobart in 1849. By 1850, the early boom town was practically deserted. In 1836 or 1837 another town had been
          laid out in North township at the old mouth of the Calumet River by promoters from 
                  Columbus, Ohio
               .42 It was a period of boom towns along the shores of Lake Michigan, and
              
                  Chicago, Michigan
                City, and City West 
                  
                     39 Ball, Lake Comity, 94–95.
                  
                     40 Bartlett Woods, "The First Free Soil Meeting in 
                        Lake County
                     ," in Ball (ed.), Lake Co., Ind., 468. Woods was secretary of the
              first Free Soil meeting at 
                        Crown Point
                     .
                  
                     41 Solon Robinson, "History of 
                        Lake County
                     , 1833–1847," in History of 
                           Lake County
                        
                     , edited by John O. Bowers, Arthur G. Taylor, and Sam B. Woods. (Publications of the 
                        Lake County
                      Historical Association, X, Gary, 1939), 51. (Hereafter this volume will be referred to as
              Woods (ed.). History of 
                           Lake County
                        .) This was the first appearance of Robinson's paper in print. It was found
              among the effects of the late Amos Allman of 
                        Crown Point
                     .
                  
                     42 Ball, 
                        
                           Lake County
                        
                     , 157; John O. Bowers "Dream Cities of the Calumet" In Woods (ed.). History of 
                           Lake County
                        
                     , 182.
               
                in 
                  Porter County
                grew with the speculators' hopes. The new 
                  Lake County
                town was given the pretentious name of 
                  Indiana City
               . It failed, however, to acquire even the transitory success achieved by Liverpool, and never
          became more than a name and a paper plat. When it was finally sold for $14,000 in 1841, no
          settlement had yet been made on the town site. West Point, a contender for the county seat honor at the
          beginning of the County's history, had not been able to hold its population with the wealth of
          prairie land beckoning from the southern part of the County, and faded out in the middle forties.43 These failures, however, were of considerable importance, for they cleared the way for
          future growth on a sound foundation of real prosperity and industry.
            Four new political-divisions had by this time been carved out of the old Center and North townships. In the
          east central part of the county, Winfield Township was created in 1843, but its boundaries have been altered
          several times since that date.44 Ross and St. Johns townships were taken from the northern
          part of Center in 1848.45 The founding of the village of Hobart in 1849 led to the
          division of North Township and the formation from it of Hobart Township.46 There were now
          nine townships in the County.
            Towns were still, with the exception of 
                  Crown Point
               , non-existent. John Wood had come to the Deep River valley from Danvers, 
                  Massachusetts
                as early at 1935, but his settlement, first known as Deep River, and later
          as Woodvale, did not attract many new settlers. The village was located on an old Indian reservation in Ross
          Township at the 
                  Porter County
                line, which was a good site for the saw and first grist mills that Wood erected there. Because of
          his desire to keep liquor out of his community, Wood never laid out a town, and, perhaps for the same reason,
          the settlement experienced little growth.47 At any rate, saloons did not appear at
            Deep River. In Cedar Creek Township, settlement had been begun in 1842 at
            Tinkerville,48 but at the end of the decade the new community was still in the embryonic
            
                  
                     43 E. B. Warriner, "East Cedar Lake," in Ball (ed.). Lake Co., Ind., 98–99.
                  
                     44 Howat (ed.), Standard History of Lake Co., Ind. and the Calumet
                Region, I, 199.
                  
                     45
                     Ibid., 180.
                  
                     46
                     Ibid., 168.
                  
                     47 Ball, 
                        
                           Lake County
                        
                     , 151–152; Ball (ed.) Lake Co., Ind., 469–70; Ball, Northwestern Indiana, 284–5.
                  
                     48 The present town of Creston.
               
                stage. At St. Johns, a village had appeared in 1846, composed chiefly of
          German Catholic settlers.49 Transportation facilities were still poor, and it was only
          with the advent of the railroad in the next decade, that real, lasting growth began.
            
               
                  49 Ball, 
                     
                        Lake County
                     
                  , 154–155; Ball, Northwestern Indiana, 280.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            The records of the Moravian Mission to the 
                  Delaware
                Indians on White River in the early nineteenth century are being prepared
          for publication for the Society by Lawrence H. Gipson, head of the Department of History, Lehigh University,
              
                  Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
               . A translation of the diary of the two missionaries has for many years
          been in the possession of the late Arthur W. Brady. Mr. Brady also collected other material, chiefly
          biographical, and planned to edit these records for publication by the Society. At the time of his death,
          however, the translation had not been entirely completed and none of the material was ready for the printer.
            It is a fortunate combination of circumstances that Professor Gibson, formerly professor of history at 
                  Wabash
                College and a member of the Society, is in 
                  Bethlehem
                where the original records of the Moravian Mission on White River are on
          file in the archives of the church and that he has been interested in editing this material. It is hoped that
          this publication may be issued during the current year. It will be a valuable source of information about the
          Indians of Indiana and general conditions in the territory in the first decade of the nineteenth century.
            Charles N. Thompson, 
                  Indianapolis
               , is completing a small volume upon John and William Conner, pioneers of central and eastern
          Indiana. Both of the brothers were prominent in Indian affairs, in trade, in the early settlement of the
          territory and state, and in its subsequent development.
            The house which William Conner built on White River, below Noblesvile, was one of the
          important centers of the New Purchase for many years. It has recently been restored and developed privately as
          a historical site by Eli Lilly, president of the Indiana Historical Society.
            John Conner was the founder of 
                  Connersville
               . He participated in many public affairs and is among the leaders of early Indiana entitled to the
          designation of statesmen. A paper upon John Conner, with reference, also, to his brother William, by the late
          Mrs. Charles N. Thompson, read at the Indiana History Conference in December, 1925, was the first fruit of the
          work which Mr. and Mrs. Thompson were doing  at that time and which Mr.
          Thompson has developed more fully since then.
            The plan of publication has not yet been determined but it seems probable that the volume will be issued
          within the next eight or nine months.
            Douglas C. McMurtrie, 
                  Chicago, Illinois
               , has collected a large number of items concerning early Indiana
          imprints—a notable addition to the Beginnings of Printing in Indiana, compiled by
          Mary A. Walker, and published by R.E. Banta, of 
                  Crawfordsville
               . Mr. McMurtrie is engaged in the study of early imprints in most of the states in the Union and
          has compiled prolific publications on the subject in many of the magazines of state historical societies. We
          are looking forward to the publication of this list of additional early Indiana imprints in the not distant
          future. The early history of printing in this territory and state is one of the most interesting chapters in
          its development.
         
         
         
            History Teachers' Forum
            HINTS FOR HISTORY CLUBS AND CLASSES1
            
            By LEONARD S. KENWORTHY
            
            Learning Geography from "Date Lines" can be made an interesting and valuable exercise. Ask
          a history class what 
                  Guam
                and Midway are, and they will tell you that they are airplane bases for the new Clipper Ship
          air-mail route to the Orient. Ask what the members know about Tokio, and they will tell you that the Japanese
          "World Series" was held there this past fall. Question students about the South Seas, and
          they will tell you that a scientific expedition was sent there as revealed in the movie, "Mutiny on
          the Bounty."
            Many history teachers will feel humiliated, but refrain from critical remarks if their students answer in
          this manner; others will openly reprimand their students for their ignorance. But to the alert and sympathetic
          teacher, these answers provide an opening wedge for the linking of current events and geography. The pupils
          questioned have some knowledge of these places in so far as current events are concerned, even if they cannot
          point them out on a world map or globe.
            Therefore, why not mount a large map of the world on the bulletin board, leaving space enough for a large
          number of newspaper clippings around the map. Ask each pupil to bring in a newspaper article with the
          "date line" from some place outside of the 
                  United States
               . Ask them to locate the cities or sections from which their news items have been cabled, and, if
          time permits, state something about each of those places. After the news story is thoroughly discussed from
          the standpoint of current events, it should be mounted on the bulletin board in the vacant space surrounding
          the map and linked with the proper spot on the map by a piece of string or some other device. 
                  Guam
                will then become an island in the Pacific between 
                  Wake Island
                and the Philippines, while Midway will take on new meaning as the halfway point in the Pacific
          between the 
                  United States
                and the Orient. Tokio 
                  
                     1 In the issue of June, 1935, the author discussed means of arousing interest in
              history among high school students in an article headed "Hints on Hobbies for High School
              Clubs." In that article, also contributed to the "History Teachers'
              Forum," historical advertisements, stamp collections, biographical sketches of Hoosier
              celebrities and famous American immigrants were mentioned as stimulating approaches.
               
                will assume its rightful place in the small but strategic island of 
                  Japan
                off the coast of 
                  China
               , and the South Seas will become more than a name in moving pictures. Nor should such a project be
          confined to one period during the semester. It should carry on throughout the semester or year as either a
          weekly or daily plan so that the full effect of its usefulness may be obtained.
            Electing a Hall of Fame is another possible exercise of value. Students entering high school are also
          entering on the age of hero worship. Many of them will choose movie stars and professional athletes as their
          heroes. One can expect that. But a few of them will choose nobler and abler individuals, if the history
          teacher is aware of his opportunity and avails himself of the chance to recreate the immortals of history and
          make them vivid and real to boys and girls.
            One of the best aids in this work is the enormous number of books of biography, both collective works and
          individual biographies, arranged for different ages. An example of this is the story of Edward Bok, called A Dutch Boy Fifty Years After, which is the Junior High School edition, and The
            Americanization of Edward Bok, which is the regular, unabridged edition of the same story.
            Teachers often seem to be unaware of this vast material. For such instructors no more valuable aids could be
          suggested than the Leisure Reading and Home Reading pamphlets of the
          National Council of Teachers of English. The former is an exhaustive, annotated list of books in many fields
          for boys and girls in the seventh, eighth and ninth grades, while the latter is a similar book-list for pupils
          in grades nine to twelve. Both contain sections on biography which are invaluable.2
            
            Teachers of older students should be acquainted with series of Biographical Sketches
          handled by the College Entrance Book Company, and the somewhat less valuable series put out by the 
                  Oxford
                Review Company.3 More valuable, however, are the three booklets put out by
          the McKinley Publishing Company. These are: Norma Olin 
                  Ireland
               's Historical
               
                  
                     2 These pamphlets may be obtained for twenty cents each, by writing to the
              National Council of Teachers of English, 211 W. Sixty-eighth Street, 
                        Chicago
                     .
                  
                     3 The address of the College Entrance Book Company is 104 Fifth Avenue, and that
              of the 
                        Oxford
                      Review Company is 111 Fifth Avenue, 
                        New York
                      City.
               
               
               Biographies, for Junior and Senior High Schools, Universities and Colleges, a bibliography;
          Florence H. and Howard Eugene Wilson's Bibliography of American Biography, Selected
          and Annotated for Secondary Schools; and Hannah Logasa's Historical Fiction. This
          includes other reading references for history classes in Junior and Senior High Schools.4
            
            Once interest has been aroused in the field of biography, or as a means of stimulating this interest, a Hall
          of Fame project might be a profitable venture. This should be patterned after Statuary Hall in the 
                  United States
                Capitol, or after 
                  New York
                University's Hall of Fame. In Statuary Hall, two busts have been placed by each state. 
                  New York
                University's Hall of Fame has sixty-nine busts chosen by a group of one hundred one
          distinguished citizens from various occupations and residing in different states. These have been chosen at
          the rate of five every five years. In the selection of 1935 only three candidates were chosen, William Penn,
          Simon Newcomb, and Grover 
                  Cleveland
               . This plan for use by high school teachers has many possibilities. It can include all the
          departments of the school or it can be limited to one history class or the history club. Even if used by a
          single class, the candidates might be confined to one period or to one field of human endeavor.
            Valuable background material for the teacher, or for the students, can be obtained from a study of the rules
          for election to 
                  New York
                University's Hall of Fame, which may be found in the World Almanac or
          may be obtained from the Director of the Hall of Fame.5 Information on the National
          Capitol's Statuary Hall should be obtained from the member of the National House who represents the
          district in which any high school desiring such information may be located. Most valuable would be the
          portfolio of pictures and winning essays in the World Hero Contest sponsored by the National Council for the
          Prevention of War a few years ago, with a distinguished Committee of Award.6 Such a
          contest might be carried on for several years with pictures selected and purchased by the students as the
          eventual outcome of their elections. In this way 
                  
                     4 The address of the McKinley Publishing Company is 1021 Filbert Street, 
                        Philadelphia
                     . Miss 
                        Ireland
                     's book sells for one dollar, the other for seventy-five cents.
                  
                     5 The address of the Director is 745 Fifth Avenue, 
                        New York
                      City.
                  
                     6 The Committee of award has included at different times: Rabbi Stephen 
                        Wise
                     , Father John Ryan, President Glenn Frank, President David Star 
                        Jordan
                      and other prominent men and women. The address of the organization is 632 Seventeenth Street, 
                        Washington
                     , D.C.
               
                any high school Hall of Fame would become a significant contribution to
          the school.
            The beginnings of history are not easy to explain to young students. Most world history courses are arranged
          to coincide with the growing curiosity of boys and girls for knowledge of how different things began. Thus,
          they are given a picture of primitive man drawing pictures of primitive animals on the walls of his
          cave-dwellings; they are told about the earliest methods for telling time used among the Indians in Central
          America; they are shown pictures of the earliest writing in the form of hieroglyphics and cuneiform; and they
          are acquainted with the beginning of numbers used by the Arabians or Hindus, according to who the author may
          be. Unless the teacher or some brilliant student pieces together the widely scattered blocks on these various
          subjects, as the history of humanity is traced to the present time, no continuity in the development of
          writing, numbers or time is acquired.
            This problem has been solved for us, however, by the Committee on Materials of Instruction of the American
          Council of Education. This Committee pieces together these blocks in gay, variagated patchwork quilts. One of
          them is a brochure on Telling Time Through the Centuries; another, The Story of
            Writing; a third, The Story of Numbers; a fourth, The Story of Weights
            and Measures; a fifth, The Story of Our Calendar, and a sixth, Rules of
            the Road.
               7 These should be of immense value in history clubs and classes.
            
               
                  7 The first two of these together run to sixty-four pages in length, and together
            sell for twenty cents. The others are each thirty-two pages long and sell for ten cents apiece. All are for
            sale by the American Council on Education, 5835 Kimbark Street, 
                     Chicago, Illinois
                  .
            
         
         
         
            Document
            FORT KNOX ORDERLY BOOK, 1793–97
            Edited By MILO M. QUAIFE
            
            
               
                  Fort Knox
                on the 
                  Wabash
               , a short distance above 
                  Vincennes
               , has long awaited an historian. Established in pursuance of orders issued by General Harmar in
          the summer of 1787, it was built, and for several years commanded, by the valiant Canadian-American officer,
          Major John F. Hamtramck. Although for many years thereafter, 
                  Fort Knox
                was an important station in the scheme of American frontier defence, one finds comparatively
          little information about it in the usual printed works of reference, and of that little, a considerable
          portion is unreliable. The index to the first twenty-five volumes of the Indiana Magazine of
            History contains but two references to 
                  Fort Knox
                (both pertaining to the "true site" of the fort, which until a very recent
          period has been a matter of dispute), while Jacob P. Dunn's two-volume, 1200-page history of Indiana
          does not mention it at all. Logan Esarey (History of Indiana … to 1850) does
          somewhat better, supplying a brief account of the establishment of the Fort, and several references to
          councils held at the place. All in all, however, one may pardonably wonder why Indiana historians have dealt
          so briefly (if at all) with one of the earliest, and for many years one of the most important stations of the 
                  United States
                Army within the borders of the state.
            The formal record of military activities which a garrison orderly book comprises presents at best but a
          partial and fragmentary picture of the life of the period to which it belongs. Yet the fragments presented are
          frequently helpful in rounding out the fuller structure of source material which the historian who undertakes
          to recreate the life of a bygone period must have at his command. Unknown to Indiana scholars, such a record
          of military activities at 
                  Fort Knox
                for the four-year period from the spring of 1793 to the spring of 1797 has for decades been
          preserved at 
                  Detroit
               , more recently in the Burton Historical Collection. The volume begins with the record of garrison
          orders at 
                  Fort Hamilton
               , from April 24 to May 1, 1793, under command of Captain Thomas Pasteur. At this time, apparently,
          Pasteur was ordered to relieve Lieutenant  -Colonel Hamtramck at 
                  Fort Knox
               , who in February preceding had been assigned to the command of the First Sublegion in General
          Anthony 
                  Wayne
               's army. Pasteur journeyed to 
                  Fort Knox
               , carrying the 
                  Fort Hamilton
                orderly book with him, and on June 24, 1793, formally assumed command of his new station. Here he
          remained at least until May 16, 1797, when he signed the final entry in the present orderly book. John B.
          Dillon states (Hist. of Indiana…, 397) that Pasteur was transferred from 
                  Fort Knox
                to Fort Massac in September, 1798. The comprehensive sketch of his career in Indiana
            Historical Collections, XV, 87, is obviously incorrect in-so-far as it concerns Pasteur's
          share in General 
                  Wayne
               's campaign. The publication of the four-year record of military life at 
                  Vincennes
                from 1793-to 1797 should prove of some assistance to future historians of Indiana, and of 
                  Vincennes
                in particular.
            [THE ORDERLY BOOK]
            
               Garrison Orders
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   June 24th 1793
               Capt Pasteur having been appointed Commandant of 
                     Fort Knox
                  , & its Dependences, by the Commander in Chief, he takes Command Accordingly, he
            flatters himself that those under his Command, will readily join him with every exertion in promoting
            Cleanliness in & about the Garrison, one of the first objects, to presurve health, and that they
            will most charefully adhair strictly to the true principles of Dicipline, at the Same time it may be
            Necessary to declair, that any Non Commissioned Officer or Soldier, that may be found guilty of Deviating
            from the principles of the Character they profess, Shall be most Sevearly punished, the main gate will be
            kept open as Usual, from Troop, till retreat beating, the order against Soldiers going to the Village, with
            the method of Gitting Water from it, will be the same as during the Command of Lt.
                  1 Colo Commant Hamtramck. Lt Bird will Continue to do the duty of Adjutant & Q.
            Master to the Garrison.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commat
               
               Garrison Orders
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   June 26, th 1793
               Daniel Ludlow, John Higgins, & Robert Southerlin, are appointed Corperals to the Detachment,
            & are to be obeyed Accordingly. The non-Commissioned Officers going to the Village with the men for
            Water, or on a pass, will be Accountable to the Conduct of their party, that they 
                     
                        1 At the end of many abbreviations and following the day of the month in most
                dates, the letters were elevated in the script. Instead of using superior letters, in all such instances
                italics have been used in the printing of this Orderly Book; e.g., "Lt",
                "Capt", "20th Inst", etc.
                  
                   go to no other place than where there business calls them, and that
            they return in due time & Sober, Any Non Commissd Officer found Guilty of
            Conniving at a Violation of this Order, Shall themselves be punished as the Offender
               T. Pasteur Capt Commat
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   June 26th 1793
               Thomas White Private in the Detachment Composing this garreson haveing been Confined & reported for
            being Drunk on Guard the 25th Inst Confesses himself Guilty, the Comdg
            officer orders him thirty five Lashes to be inflicted this Evening at roll Call, after which he will return
            to duty
               Sign'd T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   July 4th 1793
               Garrison Orders
               The Garrison will this Day be exempt from all kind of fatigue except the Necessary Garrison Duty.
               a return will be made for one Gill of Extra Whiskey P man, which will be delivered at 12 Clock P. M
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   July 6th 1793
               Garrison Orders
               Lieut Bird will this Day inquire into the Charges exhibited against John Hamilton,
            Private of this Garrison, & make report thereof to the Commanding Officer, with his opinion, if they
            be Supported or not
               T. Pasteur Capt Commat
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   July 6th 1793
               After Orders
               In Consequence of John Hamiltons being this Day found Guilty of going to the Village without permission
            & asserting a falsehood against Serjeant Price on the 5th Inst being a breach of 5th article,
            Section 18th of the rules & articles of War—
               The Commanding Officer orders him fifty Lashes, to be inflicted this Evening at Roll call, after which he
            will be released & Return to Duty.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commat
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   July 8th 1793
               Garrison Orders
               All the men off Duty will parade at 7 OClock A. M. Dailey for fateigue, the Non Commissioned officer
            Commanding the Party, will receive his instructions from Lt Bird.
               
               Returns will be made for one gill of whiskey Pr Man for the fatigue party, to be delivered them in the
            evening of each day.
               The new Guard will in future fall in at half past 7 0 Clock, & be exercised by Lieut Bird till eight.
               John Law private in the Detachment, is appointed Corporal in the same, & is to be Obeyed
            Accordingly.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commat
               
               Garrison Orders
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   July 14th 1793
               David Royal Private haveing been found in the Village the last evening without Permission in Violation
            & defiance of a positive order, the Commanding officer orders him fifty Lashes & directs the
            punishment to be enflicted this evening at roll call.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commat
               
               Garrison Orders July 1793
               Abraham Wood, Private, haveing been confind & reported for disobediance of orders in suffering an
            armed party to pass out of the garrison, without acquainting the Corporal of the Guard of it, Confesses
            himself Guilty & says it was an accident, as they passed out at a time he was walking from the gate,
            & that he did not see them. This plea Confess inattention to orders, & Duty, it is the part
            of a Sentinel; to bee elert enough that no person can approch his post at any time, without his knoledge.
            The Commanding Officer is induced to pardon Wood, & at the Same time declairs it is the Last time
            that lenity Shall have the smalest force in circumstances of the Same kind, & that Negligence
            & inattention, in Guards & Sentinells, shall Meet exemplary punishment.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commat
               
               Garrison Orders, July 21st 1793
               Lieut Bird, haveing this Day enquired into the Charges against the prisoners in the guard
            house, Reports—
               William Mosley, private, charged with Sleeping on his post, on the night of the 20th
              Inst sufficient testamony appearing to support the charge, proves him guilty of a breach
            of article, 6th Section 13th of the rules and articles of war, in
            consequence of which, the Commanding officer orders him 50 Lashes.
               William Curton & William Brown privates charged with breaking open & robbing their
            messmates chest, on the 20th Inst sufficient testamony appears to
            Support the latter part of the charge but not the first, being a breach of article 5th
            Section the 18th of the rules & articles of war, the Commanding officer orders
            each of them 30 Lashes & directs the Several punnishments to be inflicted this evening at roll call.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               
               Garrison Orders July 23d 1793
               Agreeable to order Lieut Bird this Day inquired into the Charges against the prisoners in
            the guard house & reports—William Dimond Drumr charged with abusing and
            striking Serjt Price when in the execution of his duty, Pleades guilty, being a breach of
            article 5th Section 2d of the rules & articles of war, the
            Commanding officer, orders him 50 Lashes. Corpl Ludlow charged with holding Serjt Price when in execution of his duty, untill William Dimond struck him & afterwards
            coming into his room, & giveing him insolent language The Charge is not fully suported. But the
            Commanding Officer is sorry to find Corpl Ludlows Conduct Lay him so Liable to censure, he
            will return to duty. John Scott Private charged with saying that Serjt Price had drawn
            provision for Duncker, a private & kept for his own use, he is found guilty of
            asserting a falcity against Serjt Price to the prejudice of his Character, for which he is
            ordered 25 Lashes. William Curten private charged with Insolent Language & attempting to strike Doct
            Tisdale, the Charge being Supported being a breach of article 5th Section 2d of the rules & articles of war; & from the Mark of Violence that appeared on the
              Doct the Commandant orders him 50 Lashes, & to be kept in Irons, on bread
            & Watter only, for Six Days. The Corporal punishments to be inflicted this Evening at Roll Call
            & Curtens Confinement to commence at the Same time.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               Garrison Orders July 24th 1793
               On inquirey made this Day by Lieut Bird, Corpl Robert Halkerstone was
            charged with permiting his guard to Lay down after taptoo, & Letting his Sentinels remain four hours
            on their post at one time on the night of the 22nd Inst. he pleades
            guilty, being a breach of article 5th, Section 12th of the rules
            & articles of War.
               Nothing but the Long Service of Corpl Halkerston & an Exspectation of his
            reforming from so un Soldiery and Military conduct, induces the Commanding officer to forbear pronouncing
            the Sentance the crime deserves, from those two motives he is induced to pardon Corpl
            Halkerstone & orders him to duty.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               Garrison Orders July 29th 1793
               Correct Monthly Returns of the Troops, Quarter Masters & ordnance Stores, & clothing, will
            be handed in to the Commanding officer by the 5th of the insueing Month, for July. Mr Evans, the Contractors agent at this post, will also hand in a return of the provision on
            hand by the Same Day.
               Micheal Hogin private was this Day examined on a Charge of being Drunck, when warned for Duty, to which
            charge he plead not guilty, Serjeant Price appearing gave Sufficint testimony to Support the charge,  being a breach of article the 5th Section 13th of the Rules and articles of war, in Consequence of which the Commanding officer orders
            him thirty five Lases. The punishment to be inflicted this evening at Role call.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               Garrison Orders August. 3d 1793
               Daniel Burr, private, was this Day examined on a charge of Sleeping on his post on the Night of the 2nd Inst, it appeares that the testamony was Not Sufficient to Support the
            Charge fully, but the prisoner is guilty of Setting Down on his post, & ommitting to pass the word,
              alls Well., being a breach of article 5th Section 13th, of the Rules & articles of war. In consequence of which the Commanding officer orders him
            35 Lashes, & Directs the punishment to take place this Evening at Roll Call.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               Garrison Orders, Augt 9th 1793
               In future the Detachment will be inspected every Sunday, at 11 Oclock, A. M. & in order that the
            men may be prepaired for it, they will be exempt, from all fatigue, & exstra Duty, on
            Saturday's.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               Garrison Orders Augt 12th 1793
               The conduct of Corpl Halkerstone was this day inquired into, by Lieut
            Bird, on a charge of disobedience of orders, in Laying down after taptoo, on the night of the 10th Inst when on Guard it appears that the charge was not fully Supported, but it
            plainly appears that the Corpl Neglected his duty, in trusting the key of the gate, With
            one of his privates, & Leaving it to him to regulate the time to relieve the Sentinells, it is not
            the furst time Corpl Halkerston has been found blameble on the Same accation, & if
            the feelings of the Corpl was not callous the commanding officer would endeavour to tuch
            them, but for the present he shall only observe that it is the Last time that Corpl
              Halktn May exspect the smallest glimps of lenity. he will return to duty.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               Garrison Orders Augt 16th 1793
               In consequence of the frequent disorderly, & Mutinous behavour of John Ring, private, While on
            command at white river Station, The Commanding officer orders him thurty five Lashes & directs the
            punishment to be inflicted this evening at roll Call after which he will join the Detachment
               Tho Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
               Garrison Orders Augt 17th 1793
               In consequence of the unsoldiery, and riatus behavour of William Curten private on the evening of the 14th Inst the Commanding officer orders him thurty five Lashes & directs the
            punishment to be inflicted this Evening at roll Call. In future the main gate will be Locked at the usual
            time of Shutting it, & the key deliverd to the Commanding Officer.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               Garrison Orders 
                     Fort Knox
                   Augt 27th 1793
               Returns for the present Month Will be handed in by the 2d of the insuing, the Same as
            Called for in July. Thomas Molloy private is appointed Corporal to the detachment & is to be obeyed
            accordingly.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               Garrison Orders October 1st 193
               In future the tattoo will be a 8 OClock in the Evening and the Morning Role call changed from Eight to Nine
               Signed Thos Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               Garrison Orders October 11th 1793 
                     Fort Knox
                  
               
               The guard in future will Load their pices at Sun Sett, & immediately after the old guard is
            relieved, the Non Commissioned officer Commanding it will March it out of the garrison to a place to be
            assigned for that purpose, & there make his men Discharge their pieces at a Target, the Nearest
            shott to the Center Shall receive one pint of whiskey, a return for which will be Signed by the Adgutant The
            discharge of a Single Musquit, or more, after Dark will be an alarm, on which the men will turn out,
            & form on the garrison Parade, without Noise, or Confusion, for which reason they Must Never Lay
            Down, without first placeing their Armes and accoutrements, in Such a Situation that they Can take hold of
            them in an Instant, at any time of the Night.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               Garrison Orders, 
                     Fort Knox
                   Novr 4th 1793
               In consequence of Charles Morinos unwarrantable conduct on the night of the 3rd Inst The Commanding Officer orders him fifty Lases, & Direct the punishment to be
            Inflicted this Morning at Roll Call.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               Garrison Orders, 
                     Fort Knox
                  , Novr 18th 1793
               Till further orders, the Corporal of the Guard will give the taps on the Drum, at the dawn of day, on which
            the Sergeant of the Garrison, will go through the Rooms, & see that every man that is able, gets up,
            puts on his Cloaths and Accoutrements, & be in readiness to form on the  Garrison parade at a single word, in which readiness they will remain till sun
            rise, nor will any non Commissioned officer or private, (except waiters) be permitted to go out of the
            Garrison, till that time, without Leave from the Commanding Officer, The Corpl of police
            will be answerable that each room is supplyed with a Bucket of Water, before Sun sett, every afternoon.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               Garrison Orders 
                     Fort Knox
                   Decemb 2d -93
               In consequence of Rubin Thomas Private Sleeping on his post on the night of the 1st
              Inst, detected by the Corpl of the guard, in that unpardonable Crime.
            The Commanding Officer orders him Seventy five Lashes, & Directs the punishment inflicted this
            Evening at Roll Call.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               Garrison Orders. 
                     Fort Knox
                  , Decr 10th 1793
               In consequence of the rictus behavour of Micheal Downey and Peter Gordin, Privates, on the Night of the
              9th Inst, the Commanding officer Sentences each of them to receive
            fifty lashes, & from the obvious dificulties arrising from the purchase of ardent Spirits by the
            Soldiers, he orders that no permission for the purchase of Such Spirits be given to any Private till further
            orders, Non Commission'd officers may obtain them from Lieut Bird at his
            discretion and any person found guilty of bringing Such Liquors into the Garrison for the use of the
            Soldiers contrary to this order, Shall be punished accordingly, the Commanding officer unwilling to punish
            on the first Conviction, notwithstanding the crime of Downey and Gordin diserves exemplary punishment, is
              pleasd to pardon Downey, and orders Gordins punishment inflicted this evening at Roll
            Call, after which they will return to duty.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   3rd Jany 1794.
               In consequence of John Lynch Private, haveing been found guilty of Sleeping on his post on the Night of the
              2nd Inst, and Micheal Rice, of Being drunk on guard & abusing
            the Corpl of the guard, When in the execution of his duty, The Commanding officer orders
            Lynch 75 Lashes, and Rice 50 & directs the punishment inflicted this evening at Roll Call
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   Jany 4th 1794 Garrison Orders
               The Garrison will be in rediness for Muster on Tuesday, the 7th Inst at 11 oclock, for
            which purpose there will be no fatigue on Monday
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               
               Garrison Orders 
                     Fort Knox
                  , Jany 20th, 1794
               Morning Reports of Lieut Clarks detachment, will be regularly handed in, to the Garrison
            Adjutant at the usual hour, & there will be Detailed for fatigue, till further orders, in proportion
            with the Detachment composing the Garrison.
               T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   Jany 20th 1794 Garrison Orders
               In consequence of Henry Newjeant Private's frequiantly passing Counterfeit purmission, the
            Commanding officer orders him to receive fifty lashes, & directs the punishment inflicted this
            Evening, at Roll Call.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , Jany 29th, 1794. Garrison Orders
               The charges against James Gilbert, Private for Neglect of duty, & absenting himself from his Post
            on the night of the 28th Inst was this day enquired into, it appeares
            from Several circumstances that the prisoner is not guilty of the first Charge, but guilty of the second,
            the prisoner in his defence offers Several resons in his justification, but Nothing can justify a sentinel
            in leaving his post, without regular orders for it, or by force of arms he is compelled. In Consequence of
            which, the Commanding officer Orders him 75 Lashes, as it appears from the proceedings of the enquirey, that
            the Corporals of the Guards without confineing it to one in particular, Set the example of negligence to
            their men, the Commanding officer cautions them against a repetition of So unsoliery & dishonourable
            conduct. For the first, & Last, time that Such crimes shall go unpunished he pardons Gilbert,
            & orders him to duty.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , Feby 28th 1794. Garrison Orders
               John Ring, Private, haveing ben this day found guilty of Stealing from one of the Men in his room, The
            Commanding officer, orders him 25 Lashes, and directs the punishment inflicted this evening at Roll Call.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , March 2d 1794. Garrison Orders.
               A Garrison Court Martial will assemble this day at 11 Oclock, for the trial of William Johnston, Private in
              Lieut Clarkes detachment,  Capt
            Prior is requested to preside. Lieuts Clark, & Bird Members, one of whom will act
            as judge Advocate
               T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , March 2nd 1794 After Orders.
               At a garrison Court Martial held this day, of which Capt Prior is president, William
            Johnson private in the 1st Sub Legion was tried for, abusing, imposing on, &
            Cheating Mr Reed of Post 
                     Vincennes
                  , and for haveing made use of Colol Hamtramcks name to enable him to
            occomplish his imposition, the Court finds the Prisoner guilty of the Charges Respectively, being a breach
            of Section the 18th Article the 5th of the Rules & articles of
            war, and do Sentence him to receve Seventy five Lashes. The Commanding Officer approves the opinion of the
            Court and direts the punishment inflicted this evening at Roll Call. The Court is dissolved
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               Garrison Orders, 
                     Fort Knox
                   March 16th 1794
               Tomorrow being St Patrick day all the Irishmen in the Garrison will be exempt from duty
            and will receive one gill of Extra whiskey pr man.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               Garrison Orders. 
                     Fort Knox
                   March 19th 94
               Francis Lucas, Private, is appointed Corporal in the Detachment, and is to be obeyed accordingly.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               Garrison orders 
                     Fort Knox
                   March 20th 94
               In future the Morning Roll call will be at 8 OClock & tatoo at 9 in the evening.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               Garrison Orders, 
                     Fort Knox
                   Apl 6th 94
               On enquirey made this day, John Hamilton Private was found, guilty of disobediance of Orders, &
            being insolent to Sergt Price when in execution of his duty on the 5th
              Inst. Daniel Burr, Private, was also found guilty of asserting a falsehood against
              Lieut Bird, on the 5th Inst in consequence of which,
            the Commanding Officer orders each of them fifty Lashes, & directs the punishment inflicted this
            Evening at Roll call.
               T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   Apl 21st 1794 Garrison Orders.
               On enquirey made this Day, Corpl John Law was found guilty of indevouring to persuaid the
              Corpl of the guard, & the Sentinel at the gate to permit him to pass out of the
            Garrison without the Knowledge of the Commanding Officer, on the Night of the 19th Inst. In consequence of which the Comdg Officer orders Corpl Law Reduced to a private Sentinel, & that he returns to duty as such.
               T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , April 27th 94 Garrison Orders.
               The Detachment from Fort Stuban will be exempt from all duties, and hold themselves in readiness to march
            for that place on the Morning of the 2d of the ensuing Month.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , May 1st 94. Garrison Orders.
               The March of the Detachment Ordered to Fort Stubaban the 2d Inst is
            postponed till friday the 9th on which day they will march at 10 OClock in the Morning.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , May 2d 94. Garrison Orders.
               Lieut Bird this Day inquired into the Complaint of Serjt Price, against
              Corpl Sutherland, for Makeing use of reproachful & provokeing Speehes to him,
              Lieut Bird reports it as his opinion that the cause arises from a private contention
            betwen the two parties, & that neither party can support their complaint. The Commanding officer has
            with regret for some time past observed a rising animosity prevail too much among the non Comd Officers, & he takes this opportunity to Caution them against Such unsoldierly conduct, it
            is not only Contrary to true Subordination, but it discovers a treacherous disposition, & he hopes
            he will have no cause to take further notice of it, Corpl Sutherland will return to duty.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   May 3d 94 Garrison Orders.
               On enquirey made this Day, Corpl Ludlow was found guilty of Variety of misconduct when
              Corpl of the guard on the 2d Inst, & for  makeing use of improper expressions respecting the Commanding Officer, in
            consequence of which, together with Corpl Ludlows general misconduct for some time past,
            the Commanding officer orders him reduced to a private Sentinel, & that he returns to duty as such.
              Benjm Palmer Private is appointed Corpl in the Detachment, &
            is to be obayed accordingly.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , May 9th 1794 Garrison Orders.
               The Commanding Officer directs that the part of the Order of the 11th of October Last
            respecting an allarm, be read to the Garrison at Evening Roll call on the Second Sunday in each Month,
            together With the following, that Immediately on an allarm, Serjt Price with four privates
            to be appointed for the purpose will repair to Block House No 1, Corpl Higgins with four,
            to No 2, Corpl Molloy & four to No 3, & Corpl Lucas with
            the same number to No 4, Corpl Palmer will Supply the place of either that may then be on guard, they will keep themselves provided with a Stick of Slow Match, &
            carry it lighted to their post,2 they will receive further instructions from the Comdy Officer.
               T. Pasteur Capt Commdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , May 11th 94 Garrison Orders.
               Corpl John Higgins, is promoted to the Rank of Serjeant, & is to be Obeyed
            accordingly.
               T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , May 17th 1794. Garrison Orders.
               On enquirey made this day, John Eing Private was found guilty of Sleeping on his post on the Night of the
              15th Inst. In consequence of which the Commanding officer Orders him
            75 Lashes, & directs the punishment inflicted this evening at Roll call.
               T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , May 26th 1794 Garrison Orders.
               Notwithstanding the Conduct of James Mcnemara Merits his execution, from his fair promices, & a
            hope of his future behavour as a 
                     
                        2 No description of 
                           Fort Knox
                         is known to exist. The present entry indicates that it had four blockhouses (presumably one
                at each corner of the fort), each mounting one or more pieces of artillery.
                  
                   Soldier, will Merit compassion, the Commanding Officer is induced to
            order him only 50 lashes, to be inflicted this evening at Roll Call.
               T. Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , June 1st, 1794 Garrison Orders.
               In consequence of Corpl Molloys being drunk on Parade on the Morning of this Inst, the
            Commanding Officer orders him reduced to a private Sentinal, but from a desire to experience the effects of
            Compation, for this, & the last time Non Commissioned Officers may expect it, in crimes of the same
            nature, he is pleased to restore Molloy to his former Rank.
               T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , June 15th 1794. Garrison Orders.
               In consequence of Charles Kingsingers being this day found guilty of disordely conduct, & abusing
            the Corporal of the guard when in the execution of his duty on the 14th Inst, & John Hamelton of going to the Village without permission, contrary to a positive orders,
            also James Gilbert of Sleeping on his post on the night of the 14th Inst, the Commanding Officer orders Kingsinger 50 lashes, John Hamelton 25, & James Gilbert 75,
            & Directs the Several punishments Inflicted this evening at Roll Call.
               T. Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , June 16th 1794. Garrison Orders.
               John Lynch Private was this day found guilty of being drunk when warned for duty on the 15th Inst. In consequence of which the Commanding Officer Orders him 25 lashes,
            & that his whiskey be Stoped for Six days, the corporal punishment to take place this evening at
            Roll Call.
               T. Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , July 3d 1794. Garrison Orders.
               Tomorrow being the Anniversary of the Independance of the 
                     United States
                  , ever Memorable, The Comdg Officer directs that the Garrison be exempt from
            fatigue, (except the Necessary Garrison duty,) and that each man receives an extra gill of Whiskey.
               T. Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , July 15th 1794 Garrison Orders.
               The Commanding Officer has the pleasure to proclaim to the Garrison, that on the 30th
            Ultimo, & 1st Inst a handfull of men at Fort Recovery, gained a
            Complete Victory over the Combined armey of Savages, consisting of about 17 hundred warriors, the action
            lasted one day and a half, when the Savages was Compelled to retreat with disgrace and grate Slaughter on
            their Side. The loss on ours was 21 Killed, and 19 wounded, we have to lement the loss of the gallent, Major
              McMahon, and the Brave Capt Hartshorn. From this glorious event of
            having defeated our Savage enimy, and on the Very ground where they exercised their cruilty the 4th Novr 91, he is induced to direct thirteen discharges of Artillery, and
            each Man of the Garrison to receive one gill of whiskey.3
               
               T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , August 1st 1794 Garrison Orders.
               Rubin Thomas Private was this day found guilty of Sleeping on his post on the Night of the 29th Ultimo. In Consequence of which, & its being the third time of his being Convicted of the
            Same Unpardonable Crime, the Commanding Officer Orders him one Hundred Lashes and directs the punishment
            inflicted this Evening at Roll Call. After Orders.
               In Consequence of a report from the Surgeons Mate, the Comdg officer pospon'd
            the Execution of Thomas's punishment till further Orders.
               Tho Pasteur, Capt Comt Garrison Orders 
                     Fort Knox
                  , August 7th 1794
               The punishment that was Postponed on the 1st Inst is Directed to take
            place this evening at Roll Call.
               Thos Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , August 11th 1794. Garrison Orders.
               The repeated riotous Conduct of Presley Larkins, Private, particularly on the afternoon of the 9 Inst, Merits exempary punishment, & nothing but his past Services, & his
            promices of reformation, Could 
                     
                        3 The victory of General 
                           Wayne
                         at Fallen Timbers a few weeks after the Indian defeat at Fort Recovery has perhaps induced
                historians to ignore the real significance of the earlier action. The defeat at Fort Recovery dispirited
                the Indians, and those from the northern region (the "Lake" Indians) abandoned the war
                and returned to their homes, leaving chiefly the southern warriors to contest the further advance of
                General 
                           Wayne
                        . See, for example, letters printed in Wis. Hist. Colls., XVIII,
                442–46. Captain Pasteur did well to order a celebration upon receipt of the news of the
                victory at Fort Recovery.
                  
                   induce the Commanding officer, to forbeare Ordering him his Merited
            justice, from those Circumstances, he is for this time pleased to forgive the prisoner, and Orders him to
            duty.
               T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , August 16th 1794 Garrison Orders
               Corporal Benjamin Palmar John Linch and Michael Rice privates was this day found guilty of being drunk on
            guard on the 16 Inst. In consequence of which, the Commanding Officer orders Corpl Palmar Reduced to a p[r]ivate Sentenel, and Linch & Rice 50 Lashes each, he is
            Sorry for Palmars feelings if he has any, on reflection of his Shameful and unsoldeiry conduct in this
            Instence of his neglecting the Safety of the Garrison, when he had the honour of the charge of
              it. In Such an unmilitary, & unpardonable a manner the execution of this order is directed to
            take place this evning at Roll Call.
               T. Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   August 24th 1794 Garrison Orders.
               John Hamilton private was this day found guilty of Sleeping on his Post on the night of the 23d Insant.
               Abraham Wood pivate was also found guilty of theft, in consequence of which the commanding Officer orders 
                     Hamilton
                   75, lashes and Directs the punishment inflicted this evning at Roll call, but Judgeing it
            degrading to the lash that punishes Military Offenders, to inflect Woods Merited punishment with them, he
            Orders that he be Bound with his back to the Flag Staff for one hour
               T. Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   August 26th 1794 Garrison Orders.
               Benjamin Palmer, is Restored to his former Rank of Corporal and is to be Obeyed Accordingly.
               T. Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   Octr 22d 1794 Garrison Orders.
               Mathias Dougherty Private having this day been found guilty of leaving his post when Sentinel in front of
            the Garrison, on the evening of the 21st Inst, also for Insolent
            language to Docr Tisdall at the Same time, The Commanding Officer has before cautioned the
            Garrison against so Unmilitary & Soldierly conduct, & at the Same time pronounced that such
            Conduct Should Meet its Merited reward. However painfull it may  be to
            him to Know that Corporal punishment is Merited, he is determined to Inflict it, whare millitary order
            Requires. He orders Doughterty fifty lashes, & directs the Punishment Inflicted this evening at Roll
            Call.
               T. Pasteur Capt Comdt Garrison Orders.
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , October 23d 1794.
               In Consiquence of Danel Burr being this Day found guilty of Sleeping on his post on the Night of 22d Inst The Commanding officer orders, him seventy five lashes and Directs the punishment to
            be Inflicted this evening at Roll Call.
               T. Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , Now 5th 94 Garrison Orders.
               In Consequence of Thomas Molloy Corpl haveing been this day found guilty being drunk on
            guard on the Evening of the 3d Inst, the Commanding officer orders him
            reduced to a private Sentinal.
               T. Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , Novr 14th 1794 Garrison Orders.
               From Complaint lodged this day with the Commanding Officer, against Corpl Sutherland for
            Sundry Crimes, Commited on the night of the 13th Inst Lieut Bird by
            order Inquired into the facts. From which it does not appear that any of the Charges was Supported, except
            his being absent from his Guard for one hour notwithstanding the other Charges against Corpl Sutherland, was not fully-Supported, there is too much reason for blaim in his conduct, on the night
            of the 13th Inst, but his being absent from his guard for one hour,
            however so Short the distance, is almost Inexcusable, he cautions Corpl Sutherland against
            the Smallest repetition & orders him to duty.
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , Decr 11th 1794 After Orders
               John Lynch Private was found guilty of asserting a falsehood against Serjt Rice, in
            Saying he took Beef that was weighed for the Detachment, & Converted it to his own use, in
            Consequence of which the Commdg Officer Orders, that Lynch be put on fatigue three days,
            when it is not his tour for any other duty.
               T. Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , Decr 18th 1794 Garrison Orders.
               Asel Felt Private, is appointed Corporal in the Detachment, & is to be Obeyed accordingly.
               T. Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   Decr 30th 1794 Garrison Orders.
               Michael Rice Private was this day found Guilty of being drunk on Guard on the night of the 29th Inst in consequence of which the Commanding Officer orders him fifty lashes
            & directs the Punishment Inflicted this Evning at Roll Call
               Thos Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               Garrison Orders 
                     Fort Knox
                  , Jany 1st 1795
               Daniel Ludlow Private, is appointed Corpl in the Detachment, and is to be obayed
            accordingly.
               T. Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   Jany 28th 1795 Garrison Orders.
               The Detachment will be in readiness for Muster on the 1st day of the ensuing Month at 12
            Oclock.
               T. Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   Feby 17th 1795 Garrison Orders.
               The Non Commissioned Officer Commanding the Guard will be in readiness at all times to turn it out to the
            Order of a commissioned Officer, belonging to the Garrison, & at such times, receive him as a
            Visiting Officer.
               T. Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   23d March 1795 Garrison Orders.
               On Inquirey made the 22d Inst Peter Moore Private in the Detachment was
            found guilty of Sleeping on his post, on the night of the 20th Inst, in consequence of
            which the Commanding officer orders him 75 lashes & Directs the Punishment to be inflicted this
            evening at Roll call.
               T. Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   March 26th 95 Garrison Orders
               On enquirey this day made into a Charge against Peter Moore, Private in the Detachment, for haveing
            wilfully Killed a Hog, the property of some person in or abought the Garrison, when on his post in front of
            the Same, It appeares that positive proofe Cannot be had to Support the Charge, but the presumption is
            Strong and forcable. But to lay that a side, the negligence of a Sentinell Suffering Such a peace of
            violence to be Commited actually on the ground of his walk, is Sufficient, Cause for the Commanding
            [Officer] to Order four dollars & a half to be Stoped out of his next three months pay the Said
            Peter Moore may be entitled to receive, and that the Same be paid to the right owner of the Hog, So Killed,
            In Conformity to the Rules & Articles of War.
               T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , April 4th 1795 Garrison Orders
               From & after the present date, there will be no Chopping of Wood in the Garrison, till further
            Orders, except it be by a person directed to worke in the Shop.
               T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   12th April, 1795 Garrison Orders
               Corpl Francis Lucas was this day found Guilty of gitting drunk & pirmitting the
            Men under his Immediate Conduck in the Village to get drunk also on the 11th Inst. It being directly in Violation of the order of the 26th day of June 93,
            the Commanding Officer orders Corprel Lucas Reduced to a privet Sintinel.
               T. Pasteurs Capt Commdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   20th May 1795 Garrison Orders
               Daniel Burr, private, was this day found guilty of laying down his arms, and walking his post without them
            when he was Sentinel in the front of the Garrison on the Night of the 19th Instent, in
            Consequence of which, he is hereby Ordered thirty five lashes, the Punishment to be inflicted this evning at
            roll call.
               James Wilson private, is appointed Corporal, in the Detachment, & is to be obeyed accordingly.
               The Commanding Officer Observing the Practice of playing Cards in the Garrison privail among the Non
            Commissioned Officers & privates, he, in the most Positive terms forbids it in future.
               Thos Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   2 June 1795 Garrison Orders
               On Enquiary this day maid, David Royal Private was found Guilty, of Obtaining one quart Whiskey on account
            of James McNamarrow without his consent, & for asserting a falsehood, in Saying
            that Capt Pasteur had Stoped a Dollar of his pay for his washer woman The Commanding
            Officer being determined that fraud, Shall not pass unpunished by his Vote, & that falsehood Shall
            meet its Merited justice, he orders Royal thirty five lashes, & directs the punishment Inflicted
            this evning at Roll call
               Thos Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , 6th June 1795 Garrison Orders
               John Schamehorn Private was this day examined on a Charge of theft & falsehood. From the Strong
            appearance of theft, & the Insolence of the prisoner during the Inquirey, the Commanding Officer
            Orders him to be Kept on fatigue four days Successively, & that he work under the direction of the
            Corporal of Police from 5 to 11 o Cock in the forenoon, & from 2 to 7 in the afternoon The fatigue
            to Commince tomorrow
               Thos Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   30th June, 1795. Garrison Orders
               The Detachment will be in readiness for Muster on the 2d day of the Insuing Month, at 9 O
            Clock A. M.
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , 3d July, 1795. Garrison Orders
               Tomorrow the 4th Inst being the Anniversary of the Independency of the 
                     United States
                  , of America, The Commanding Officer directs that the Garrison be exempt from all fatigue except
            the Necessary Garrison duties, & that each Man receive half a pint Whiskey, one gil to be delivered
            them at 12 O Clock, & the other at three.
               William Lee Private, was this day found guilty of Sleeping on his post, on the night of the 1st Inst, in consequence of which, he is hereby ordered 75 lashes, the punishment
            to be inflicted this evening at Roll Call.
               Evening Orders
               The Corporal punishment ordered to be Inflicted this Evening, is postponed till Tomorrow morning Guard
            Mounting, Capt Bird, the Garrison Adjt being absent at the time it
            Should have taken place. At that time it is ordered to be Inflicted.
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , 20th Augt, 1795. Garrison Orders
               John Scamehorn Private, was this day found guilty of Mutinous conduct on the 19th Inst, being a Breach of Section the 2d Article the 3d of
            the Rules and Articles of War, In consequence of which the Commanding Officer orders him 85 lashes,
            & directs the punishment inflicted this Evening at Roll Call, all the men off duty, will attend
            accordingly.
               T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   4th September 1795. Garrison Orders
               Enquiery was this day made into a charge against Jacob Lowman Private for Sleeping on his post on the night
            of the 3d Inst from the testemony in Support of the Charge, the fact is
            not Absolutely established but it plainly Appears that the Prisoner is guilty of leaving his post and laying
            by his Arms being a breach of Sect 13th article the 6th of the Rules
            & articles of War. In consequence of which the Commanding officer Orders him fifty lashes. Being
            determined that Negligence in a sentinal and Conduct so derogetary to the Character of a soldier, shall meet
            with its Merited justice. The punishment to be inflicted this evening at Roll Call, all the men off duty
            will attend.
               Signed Thos Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , 2d October, 1795 Garrison Orders
               The Morning Roll call will be at 9 O'Clock, & the tattoo at 8, in the Evening till further
            orders.
               A Sentinel will pay no compliment to an officer, except he has his Side Arms with him, & passes in
            front of his Post.
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , 23 Octr 1795 Garrison Orders
               In consequence of David Royal Private going to the Village without permission, & staying out of the
            Garrison Until after the Usual hour of evening Roll Call, The Commanding Officer orders him 35 lashes,
            & directs the punishment inflicted this Morning at Guard Mounting.
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , 23d Octr 1795 After Orders
               James McNemarrow private was this day brought before the Commanding Officer charged with
            leaving his Post when on Sentry & breaking open the Bake House, on the night of the 21 Inst to which
            the prisoner  Pleads Guilty, being a breach of Section the 8th Article the 6th & Sectn the 18th
            Article 5th of the Rules & Articles of war, he is heareby ordered 100 lashes, the
            punishment to take place this Evening at the usual hour of Roll Call.
               Sign'd T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , 23d Decr 1795. Garrison Orders
               The Commanding Officer Orders Daniel Burr, Private, 35, lashes in consequence of his going to the Village
            on the 22d Inst, contrary to the Order of the 24th
            June 1793. But, for the first & last time, such crime shall go unpunished, he is pleased to pardon
            Burr, & order him to Duty. He calls on the non Commissioned Officers to exert themselves in
            detecting any attempt of the same kind in future, & confine the transgresser, that he may receive
            the punishment due disobediance of Orders, any connivance on their part, shall be deemed equal to the crime
            its' self.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , 31 Decr 1795 Garrison Orders
               In order to prevent the plea of ignorance of the limits of the Garrison towards the Village, The Commanding
            officer heareby declair's that North side of the Street, runing East, & West by Mrs Busroñes House, to be the limited line between the Garrison & Village,
            & any Soldier found in any part of the Said Street, or to the South of it, without regular
            permission, will be deemed Guilty of disobediance of orders, and punished accordingly.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , 13th Jany 1796. Garrison Orders
               The Non Commissioned officers & Privates, will provide themselves with materials to appeare on the
            Parade from & after the 20th Inst with their hair cued at least
            10 Inches long from the tie, which will be uniformly cloase to the head.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , 18th Jany, 1796 Garrison Orders
               From proof of John Clansey Private's being found in the Village contrary to repeated orders, The
            Commanding officer orders him 35 lashes, & directs the punishment inflicted this Morning at Guard
            Mounting.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , 22d Jany 1796. Garrison Orders
               A. Garrison Court Martial consisting of Non Commissioned Officers will assemble this day at 11
            O'clock, for the trial of the Prisoners in the guard House, Serjt Higgins will
            Preside, Corpls Palmer & Wilson Members, John Law is appointed Judge Advocate to
            the Court.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , 22d Jany 96. After Orders
               At a Garrison Court Martial of Non Commissioned Officers held this day, whereof Serjt
            Higgins is President, Corpl Daniel Ludlow was tried for repeated conniveance at Privates
            bringing whiskey into the Garrison, contrary to order, & for abusing & ill treating, those,
            that would not do the Same. The Court find the Prisoner guilty & do sentence him to be reduced to a
            private Sentinel.
               At the same Court, Henry Nugent Private, was tried, for strikeing, and abusing, Corpl
            Lucas, on the 21 Inst. The Court finds the Prisoner guilty, & do Sentence him to
            receive 75 Lashes.
               The Commanding Officer approves the oppinion of the Court, & orders the Sentences to take place
            this Evening at Roll Call, all the men off duty, will attend, the Court is disolved.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   24th Jany 1796 Garrison Orders
               A Garrison Court Martial consisting of Non Commissioned Officers will assemble this day at 11
            O'Clock for the trial of David Royal Private, Serjt Higgins will preside, Corpls Lucas & Felt, members, John Law Judge Advocate.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               After Orders
               At a Garrison Court Martial of Non Commissioned, held this day, whereof Serjt Higgins is
            Presidt David Royal private was tried for being drunk on guard the 23d Inst, the Court find the Prisoner guilty, being a breach of Sectn 13, Article 5th, of the Rules and Articles of War, & do sentence him to receive 50 lashes. The
            Commanding Officer approves the oppinion of the Court, & orders the punishment inflicted this
            Evening at Roll Call.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , 25th Jany, 96. Garrison Orders
               The Commanding Officer is induced to order Corporal Palmer to duty without bringing him to trial,
            influenced in some degree by a petition  from the Garrison, at the same
            time he declairs it to be the last, he will receive on any Similar Occation.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   7th Feby 1796. Garrison Orders.
               A Court Martial consisting of Non Commissioned Officers, will assemble this day at 12 O'Clock; for
            the trial of the Prisoner's in the Guard House, Serjt Higgins will Preside,
            Corpls Palmer, & Felt, Members, John Law, Judge Advocate.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               After Orders
               At a Garrison Court Martial of Non Commissioned Officers, held this day whereof Serjt
            Higgins is President, David Martin Private, was tried for going to the Village contrary to repeated orders,
            on the 6th Inst. The Court find the Prisoner guilty of a Breach of
              Sectn the 2d Article the 5th of the Rules &
            articles of war, & sentence him to receive 75 Lashes, at the Same court was tried Paul Wallace
            Private for disobedience of orders the Court find the prisoner guilty, being a breach of Sectw the 18,
            Article the 5 of the Rules, & articles of War, & do sentence him 50 Lashes.
               The Commanding Officer approves the oppinion of the Court, But from the former good conduct of Paul
            Wallace, & this being the first time he has been brought before a tribunal, Since he has belonged to
            this detachment, he is Pleased to pardon him, & order Martin's punishment to take place
            this Evening at Roll call.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   12th Feby, 1796. Garrison Orders
               Henry Willhousen Private, is appointed Corporal in the Detachment & is to be obeyed accordingly.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Commdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , 13th Feby 1796 Garrison Orders
               A Garrison Court Martial of Non Commissioned Officers will assemble this day, at 11 O'Clock, for
            the trial of John Hamilton Private, Serjt Higgins will Preside, Corporals Lucas, &
            Wilson members, John Law Judge Advocate.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               After Orders
               At a Garrison Court Martial of Non Commissioned Officers, held this day whereof Serjt
            Higgins is President, John Hamilton private was  tried for going to the
            Village contrary to repeated Orders, The Court find the Prisoner guilty, being a breech of Section the 2,
            Article the 5th of the Rules, & Articles of war, & do sentence him to
            receive 50 Lashes. The Commanding Officer approves the oppinion of the Court, & orders the
            punishment inflicted on 
                     Hamilton
                   this evening at Roll Call. The Court is disolved.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   4th March, 1796. Garrison Orders
               A Garrison Court Martial of non Commissioned Officers will assemble this day, at one O'Clock for
            the trial of Michael Hogan Private, Serjt Higgins will Preside, Corpls
            Palmer & Willhousen Members, John Law Judge Advocate.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               After Orders
               At a Garrison Court Martial of non Commissioned Officers held this day whereof Serjt
            Higgins is President, Michael Hogan Private, was tried for being drunk when warned for duty the evening
            before.
               The Court finds the Prisoner guilty, being a breach of Article 5, Sectn 13, of the Rules
            & Articles of War, & sentence him to receive 50 lashes. The Commanding officer approves the
            oppinion of the Court, & orders the punishment inflicted this evening at Roll call. The Court is
            disolved.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , 6th March, 1796. Garrison Orders
               For obvious reasons, The Commanding Officer is compelled to change the limits of the Garrison towards the
            Village, to not more than 100 Yards to the South of West, & South East, any Soldier found beyond
            those limits, without regular permission, will be deemed guilty of disobediance of Orders, &
            punished accordingly.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , 14th March, 1796. Garrison Orders
               A Garrison Court Martial of Non Commissioned Officers will assemble this day at 10 O'Clock, for
            the trial of the Prisoner's in the Guard House, Serjt Higgins will preside,
            Corporals Lucas & Willhousen Members, John Law Judge Advocate.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
               After Orders
               At a Garrison Court Martial held this day consisting of Non Commissioned Officers, whereof Serjt Higgins is President, Michael Hogan Private, was tried for being drunk when for guard. The Court
            find the Prisoner guilty, & sentence him to receive 75 lashes.
               At the Same Court Henry Nugent & Joseph Dunkin, Privates, was tried for going to the Village
            contrary to repeated Orders, the Court find the Prisoners guilty, & sentence Nugent 80, Lashes
            & Dunkin 40, being the first time. The commanding Officer approves the oppinion of the Court So far
            as it relates to Hogan & Nugent, and orders their punishment inflicted this Evening at Roll call.
            But he is bound to disapprove the Sentence passed on Dunkin, as he was found guilty by the court of the Same
            crime with Nugent, & ought to have received the Same Sentence; Then If there was circumstances in
            favour of Dunkin, the Court would have been Justifiable from them, in recommending him to the Commanding
            Officer for Mercy; he Pardons Dunkin, & orders him to duty. The Court is dissolved.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   16th March 1796. Garrison Orders
               Immediately on an allarm Corpl Wilson & five Privates to be appointed for the
            purpose will repair to Block House No 2, Corpl Palmer with five to No 3, & Corpl Wilhousen with the Same Number to No 4, Corpl Felt will Supply the place
            of either that may then be on guard, they will keep themselves provided as directed in the order of the 9th May 1794. This order will be read with the last part of the Order of the 11th of Octr 1793, as directed in the above of the 9th May,
            & instead of the last part of that Order.
               Untill further Orders, the Morning Roll Call with be at 8 O'Clock, & the tattos at 9 in
            the Evening.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   12th April 1796 Garrison Orders
               A Court Martial of Non Commissioned Officers will assemble this day at 12 O'Clock for the trial of
            James Gilbert Private; Serjeant Higgins will Preside, Corpls Lucas & Felt Members; John Law, Judge
            Advocate.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               After Orders
               At a Court Martial of Non Commissioned Officers, held this day whereof Serjt Higgins is
            President, James Gilbert Private was tried for Mutinous behaviour on the 9th Inst. The Court find the Prisoner Guilty, & Sentence him to receive 100 lashes. The
            Commanding Officer has long  Since, Publickly declaired his
            determination to punish crimes of such nature; & will continue so determined. He confirms the
            Sentence of the Court, & orders the punishment inflicted this Evening at Roll Call; The Court is
            desolved.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , 19th April 1796. Garrison Orders
               A Court Martial of Non Commissioned Officers will assemble this day at 11 O'Clock for the trial of
              Corpls Felt, Serjt Higgins will Preside, Corpls
            Palmer & Willhousen Members. John Law Judge Advocate.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               After Orders
               At a Garrison Court Martial of Non Commissioned Officers, held this day whereof Serjt
            Higgins is President; Corpl Felt, was tried for endeavouring to defame the Character of a
            Young Lady of the Village and for behaving in a Seditious manner relative to the Commanding
            Officer's Order. The Prisoner Plead guilty. The Court find him guilty, being a breach of Section
              2d, Artl 3d & Sectn the
              18th, article the 5th of the Rues, & Articles of War,
            & Sentence him to be reduced to a Private Sentinel, & to receive 100 Lashes.
               The Commanding Officer is sorry to find he has had a Non Commissioned Officer in the Garrison capable of
            being guilty of such crimes; He confirms the sentence of the Court, & orders the punishment
            inflicted this Evening at Roll Call; The Court is disolved.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , 4th May, 1796 Garrison Orders
               A Court Martial consisting of Non Commissioned Officers will assemble this day at 12 O'Clock for
            the trial of David Martin Private; Serjt Higgins will Preside, Corpls
            Lucas, & Wilson Members. John Law Judge Advocate.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               After Orders
               At a Garrison Court Martial of Non Commissioned Officers, held this day, whereof Serjt
            Higgins is President; David Martin Private was tried for being Drunk & refusing his duty on the
            Morning of the Present date, when warned for Guard the night before. The Court find the prisoner guilty,
            & sentence him to receive 100 lashes at two different times; The Commanding Officer approves the
            Sentence of the Court, But is pleased to pardon Martin the different times of punishment, & orders
            the whole inflicted this Evening at Roll call. The Court is disolved.
               Sign'd T. Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   17 May, 1796. Garrison Orders.
               William Pique recruit; is appointed Serjt from the 12th Inst, & is to be obeyed accordingly.
               Signed T. Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               Evening at Roll Call, & one half of Royals punishment inflicted at the Same time, the Other to
            morrow morning at Guard Mounting, the Court is Disolved.
               Signed T. Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , 30th May, 1796 Garrison Orders
               A Court Martial consisting of Non Commissioned Officers will assemble this day, at 10 O'clock for
            the trial of David Martin Private, Serjt Pique will Preside. Corpl's Wilson & Willhausen members, John Law, Judge Advocate.
               Signed T. Pasteur Capt Comdt After Orders
               At a Court Martial of Non Commissioned Officers held this day, whereof Serjt Pique is
              Presidt, David Martin Private was tried for abusing, & giving insolent language
            to Serjt Higgins, when in execution of his duty; The Court find the Prisoner guilty, being
            a breach of Section 18th Artl 5th of the Rules
            & Articles of War, and Sentence him to receive 35 Lashes, & to be confined to the Garrison
            for one Month.
               The Commanding Officer approves the Sentence of the Court, & orders the punishment inflicted this
            Evening at Roll call, & the confinement to the Garrison to commence at the same time; The Court is
            disolved.
               Signed T. Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   7th June, 1796. Garrison Orders
               From the long service's of Benjamin Palmer, & an expectation of his refraining from the
            pernicious practice for which he was reduced, the Commanding Officer is Pleased to restore him to his former
            Rank of Corporal, he is to be obeyed accordingly.
               Signed T. Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   3d July, 1796. Garrison Orders
               Tomorrow being the Anniversary of the 
                     United States
                  , ever memorable, the Commanding Officer directs that the garrison be exempt  from fatigue, (except the necessary Garrison duty, & that each Non
            Commissioned Officer, Musician & Private receive half a pint of whiskey, one gill to be delivered
            them at 12 O'Clock, & the other at 3, in the afternoon.
               Signed T. Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   14th July, 96 Garrison Orders
               A Court Martial consisting of Non Commissioned Officers will assemble this day at 12 OClock for the trial
            of John Ring Private, Serjt Higgins will Preside Corporals Palmer, & Wilson
            members, John Law Judge Advocate.
               Signed T. Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               After Orders
               At a Court Martial of Non Commissioned officers held this day, whereof Serjt Higgins is
            President, John Ring, private was tried for Stealing Bread from his Room Mates. The Court find the prisoner
            guilty, being a breach of Sectn the 18th Article the 5, of the Rules
            & Articles of war, & sentence him 50 Lashes; The Commanding Officer approves the oppinion of
            the Court, and orders the punishment inflicted this Evening at the usual hour of Roll Call. The Court is
            disolved.
               Signed T. Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   9th August, 1796. Garrison Orders
               A Court Martial consisting of Non Commissioned Officers will assemble this Day at 11 O'Clock for
            the trial of Daniel Burr Private, Serjt Higgins will Preside, Corporals Palmer, &
            Wilson Members, John Law Judge Advocate.
               Signed T. Pasteur Capt Comdt After Orders
               At a Court Martial of Non Commissioned Officers held this day, whereof Serjt Higgins is
            President, Daniel Burr Private, was tried for Seditious behaviour, & disobediance of orders on the
              8th Inst. The Court find the Prisoner guilty, of a breach of Section
            the 2d Article the 3d & 5th of the Rules
            & Articles of War, & Sentence him to receive 100 Lashes; The Commanding Officer approves the
            oppinion of the Court, & orders the punishment inflicted this Evening at Roll call. The Court is
            disolved.
               Signed T. Pasteur Capt Comdt
               
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   26th August, 1796 Garrison Orders
               A Court Martial of Non Commissioned Officers will assemble this day at 10 O'Clock for the Trial of
            Henry Nugent Private, Serjt Higgins will Preside, Serjt Pique, &
            Corporal Palmer, members, John Law, Judge Advocate.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   27th August, 1796 Garrison Orders
               At a Court Martial of Non Commissioned Officers held yesterday, whereof Serjt Higgins is
            President, Henry Nugent Private, was tried for advising, & persuading a room Mate to Desert with
            him, & for selling his Publick Cloathing; The Court find the Prisoner guilty of the charges
            respectively; being a breech of Sectn the 6th, Article the 4th, and Section the 12th, Article the 3d of the rules &
            articles of War, & sentence him to walk the Ganlope 12 times through the Troops of the Garrison,
            & to be confined in the Guard House for fourteen day's; The Commanding Officer confirms the
            Sentence of the Court, & directs the Corporal punishment inflicted Tomorrow Morning at Guard
            Mounting, But pardons Nugent of the 14 day's Confinement; All the men off duty, including the new
            guard, will parade at 8 O'Clock A.M. prepaired for exercise immediately after the punishment is
            inflicted; The Court is Disolved.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   14 Septr 1796. Garrison Orders
               A Court Martial of non Commissioned Officers will assemble this day at 11 O'Clock, for the trial
            of Daniel Burr, Private; Serjt Pique will Preside Corpls Palmer, & Wilson Members.
            John Law Judge Advocate.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   15th Septr 1790 Garrison Orders
               From the Proceedings' of the Court held yesterday, whereof, Serjt Pique is
              Presidt it appears that the charge against Daniel Burr Private, orriginated in a Private
            dispute between the Prisoner, & Serjt Higgins's Wife, & ought not
            to come before the Commanding Officer, He therefore orders Burr to his duty, The Court is disolved
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   19th Sepr 96 Garrison Orders
               A Court Martial of Non Commissioned Officers will assemble this day at 10 O'Clock for the trial of
            David Martin Private Serjt Higgins will Preside, Corps Wilson, & Wilhousen
            Members; John Law Judge Advocate.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               After Orders
               At a Court Martial of Non Commissioned Officers held this day, whereof Serjt Higgins is
            President, David Martin Privt was tried for being Drunk on Guard on the 18th Inst. The Court finds the Prisoner guilty, being a Breach of Sectn 13th Article the 5th of the Rules & Articles of War,
            & Sentence him 35 lashes, & to be 15 Days Confined in the guard House when off Duty; The
            Commanding Officer Disapproves the Sentence of the Court and Orders Martin 55 Lashes to be inflicted this
            Evening at Roll Call, after which, he will return to Duty; The Court is Disolved.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   5th Octr 1796. Garrison Orders
               The Troop will beat at 9 OClock in the Morning, & the Tattoo, at 8, in the Evening till further
            orders.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   23d November, 1796. Garrison Orders
               On, or before the 27th Inst, each non Commissioned Officer, &
            Private, will provide themselves with a Stopper for the Muzzle of his Musquet, conformable to the mode
            prescribed. The non Commissioned Officers will be answerable for their Squads, for a punctual complyance
            with this order.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   4th Decr 1796 Garrison Orders
               A Court Martial of Non Commissioned Officers will assemble this day at 11 O'Clock for the trial of
            John Scamehorn Private, Serjt Higgins will preside, Serjt Pique,
            & Corporal Lucas members, John Law, Judge Advocate.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
               After Orders
               At a Court of Non Commissioned Officers held this day whereof Serjt Higgins is President,
            John Scamehorn Private was tried for Insulting & threatening to strike Corporal Wilson, when in the
            execution of his duty, on the 3d Inst. This Court find the Prisoner
            guilty of a breech of Sectn 2d Article 5th, and
              Sectn 7th, Article 1st of the Rules &
            Articles of War,& sentence him to receive 75 lashes. The Commanding Officer approves the Sentence of
            the Court. But is Pleased to mitigate the punishment to 50 lashes, & order's it to be
            Inflicted this Evening at Roll Call. The Court is Dissolved.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   31 Decr 1796. Garrison Orders
               From & after the date hereof, The Commanding Officer positively forbids any Nom Commissioned
            officer of this Garrison obtaining Credit for any sum over & above fifteen Dollars, & any
            Private for a larger sum than ten Dollar's; a Disobediance of this order, shall be punished
            exemplary. From the particular request of Corpl Wilson who confined Joseph Dunkin Private,
            The Commanding Officer is Pleased to pardon the said Dunkin, & at the same time he
            declair's this shall be the last time that crimes like his, Shall escape the most vigorous exertion
            of the Military Law.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   7th January, 1797 Garrison Orders
               The Non Commissioned officer of the Guard will consider it a duty incumbent on him, to report to the
            Commanding Officer, any Non Commissioned Officer whom may pass his Sentinels from the Village Drunk, or
            Intoxicated, in like manner he will report any that may accompany a Private, or Privates, So intoxicated;
            for which reason he will give his Guard the necessary Orders
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , 20th Jany, 1797. Garrison Orders
               The first Serjeant of the Garrison is directed to Publish the first part of the Order of the 31st Decr, through the Rooms once in every Week Successively, till further Orders.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , 8th March 1797.
               Copy of an Order received this day from Head Quarters at 
                     Detroit
                  .
               T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
               Head Quarters, 
                     Detroit
                   6th Feby, 1797 Colo Hamtramcks Orders
               The Colo want's expression to give the Army, an Idea, how mud he regrets the loss of that gallant
            Soldier, our late Commanding General who departed this life on the 15th of Decmr last, after many heroic actions, both as the Soldier, & the Patriot, it is a loss
            that every Officer, & Soldier, Ought to lament, and the officers of the Army, are bound in gratitude
            to testify their feelings on this Catastrophe by wearing a crape, or a Ribbon round the Arm, and on the
            Sword for the space of one month. In consequence of the determination of a Council of War, composed of the
            Field Officers Present, The Colonel Assumes the Command of the Army, & every department &
            Garrison, will untill Countermanded by a Superior Authority make all returns, & Communications to
            the Colonel at 
                     Detroit
                  , which is at present the Head Quarters,
               Signed
               a true Copy Test.
               Ferdinan L. Claiborne Lieut
               
               Adjt 1st U. S. Regt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                  , 20th March, 1797. Garrison Orders
               The Troop will beat at 8 O'Clock in the morning, & the Tattoo, at 9, in the Evening till
            further Orders,
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Commandt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   20th April, 1797 Garrison Orders
               A Court Martial of non Commissioned Officers will assemble this day at 11 O'Clock for the Trial of
            Corporal Wilson, Serjeant Higgins will preside Corporals Lucas, & Willhousen Members, John Law,
            Judge Advocate.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt After Orders
               At a Court of non Commissioned Officers held this day, whereof Serjt Higgins is
            President, Corporal Wilson was tried for being drunk on duty, & abusing a private when on duty with
            him.
               The Court find the prisoner guilty, & sentence him to be reduced to a private Sentinel; The
            Commanding Officer approves the sentence of the Court, & orders it to take place this Evening at the
            usual hour of Roll Call, after which Wilson, & Rice, will return to duty. The Court is disolved.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   12th May, 1797. Garrison Orders.
               The Commanding Officer is pleased to restore James Wilson to his former Rank of Corporal, he is to be
            obeyed accordingly.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               
                  
                     Fort Knox
                   16th May, 1797. Garrison Orders.
               A Court Martial of Non Commissioned Officers will assemble this day at the 11 O'Clock, for the
            trial of David Martin Private; Serjt Pique will Preside, Corporals Lucas &
            Wilhousen Members, John Law Judge Advocate.
               Signed T. Pasteur, Capt Comdt
               
               After Orders
               At a Court Martial of Non Commissioned Officers held this day, whereof Serjeant Pique is President, David
            Martin Private was tried for going to Town without leave, & getting Drunk when Ordered for Guard, on
            the 15th Inst. The Court find the Prisoner guilty, & Sentence
            him to receive 75 lashes;
               The Commanding Officer approves the Sentence of the Court, & orders the punishment inflicted this
            Evening at the usual hour of Roll Call; The Court is disolved.4
               
            
            
               
                  4 This entry occupies the final page of the book. Presumably the record was
            continued in a new volume which was perhaps taken by Capt. Pasteur to Fort Massac, upon his removal thither,
            in the same way the volume before us was brought from 
                     Fort Hamilton
                   to 
                     Fort Knox
                  .
            
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               Solon Robinson, Pioneer and Agriculturist, I, 1825–1845. Edited by Herbert
          Anthony Kellar. The Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                  Indianapolis
               , 1936. Pp. xxv, 582, illustrated, $2.00.
            These "selected writings" from the pen of Solon Robinson constitute Volume XXI of the Indiana Historical Collections, and will be followed by the publication of a second volume
          containing another installment in the same series. A foreword by Christopher B. Coleman, Director of the
          Indiana Historical Bureau, presents an admirable introduction. There is a calendar of all the known writings
          of Robinson and those reproduced here are starred. The sketch of the pioneer writer's life is
          sufficient to introduce the main part of the book. Documents from the period, 1827–1845, most of
          which were published in agricultural periodicals and which treat a wide variety of subjects, fill over five
          hundred pages. These were penned before Robinson took up writing as a profession, but they reveal, even in
          this early period, interests that were remarkable. He was highly pleased at seeing his writings in print and
          as postmaster of 
                  Lake County
                Court House with the privilege of franking his correspondence, he was generous in his offerings.
          All subjects of current interest were either blessed or damned by him, and editors soon came to welcome
          whatever he had to offer.
            Solon Robinson was truly a "man of parts" with a humanitarian spirit. He was born in 
                  Connecticut
                where he experienced the hardships of the 
                  New England
                farm. He went to 
                  Ohio
                and later settled in Indiana where he began a career as an agricultural leader. After removing to 
                  New York
               , he became an agricultural editor; he finished his career in 
                  Florida
                but always his greatest interest was the development of the West. Like most Westerners of the
          early period he favored rapid settlement of the country but this "King of Squatters" was a
          person who unselfishly wished others to share his opportunity and experience. Seeing the wasteful methods of
          the West, Robinson discouraged people who would not be capable of withstanding hardship and who with Utopian
          dreams of many acres and quick wealth planned to leave comfortable 
                  New England
                homes. He traveled widely; he labored for agricultural 
          reform; he encouraged temperance and women's rights; and he believed the country was doomed unless
          the Whigs were kept in control.
            The most valuable work to which Robinson gave his interest was agriculture. He wrote for many agricultural
          periodicals, encouraged discussion of the problems faced by farmers both in the East and West, and
          persistently advised his contemporaries to subscribe for a farm journal. His "country store"
          philosophy appealed to readers of that time and although the methods that he advocated would not be followed
          in every instance today, he was a pioneer in agricultural science. The descriptions of the country seen in his
          travels and the discussion of the towns through which he passed are presented with an objectivity that at
          times led to bitterness. Courage was needed; he showed the faults and advised means to overcome them; he
          wanted his people to be ambitious and progressive. He was almost prophetic in his writings and one may marvel
          at his modern ideas for improvement. Such men should have a high place in history.
            Solon Robinson is credited with conceiving the idea of the formation of a national society of agriculture
          which was in turn to foster a national agricultural school and journal. The leaders of this movement, like
          many others, hoped to win the Smithson fund, but failing in this their society was doomed. Agitation, however,
          later materialized in the formation of a Department of Agriculture which led to a mutual friendship among such
          agricultural leaders as A. B. Allen, Thomas Affleck, Henry L. Ellsworth, Edmund Ruffin and others.
            Mr. Kellar's compilation of the writings left by Solon Robinson is a valuable addition to the
          history of agriculture and the westward movement. He has been untiring in his effort to identify
          contemporaries mentioned in Robinson's writings, and his footnotes are commendable for accuracy and
          consistency. This volume manifests the editor's sincere interest in the neglected story of
          agriculture and agrarian life. The writings are in suitable form to give the more casual reader of American
          history an idea of the problems and purposes of the early leaders in agrarian organization and agitation. The
          serious student will do well to read all the writings included  for here
          is an atmosphere and picture that is often missed in secondary writings.
            FRED COLE
            
         
         
            
               General John T. Wilder. By Samuel C. Williams. Indiana University Press, 
                  Bloomington
               , 1936. Pp. x, 105, illustrated.
            Any person is worthy of a biography whose activities in deed and fact have transcended his own community. As
          Judge Williams indicates, minor biographies, or rather biographies of persons considered secondary, when their
          careers are sketched in proper perspective, add very materially to our common storehouse of knowledge. This
          short biography of General Wilder is timely and aids not only in defining his career more clearly, but in
          forming a truer conception of men with whom he was associated, commonly considered greater, as well as making
          the locale of their operation more concrete.
            The biography is disappointing in that every phase of a long life is treated so very briefly except that of
          his military career. John Thomas Wilder was born of English ancestry in 
                  New York
               , and, after receiving only an elementary education, he at the age of nineteen came West and was
          engaged in working in a foundry in 
                  Columbus, Ohio
               . Here he remained some eight years and was so successful
          he was offered a partnership in the business. This he declined and removed to 
                  Greensburg
               , Indiana, where he became the owner of a small foundry which he operated until the outbreak of
          the Civil War in 1861. Only a few lines more than two pages are used in the sketch to tell the story of his
          career thus far. Wilder was then thirty-one years old.
            The author sketches well the three years of Wilder's military career. Naturally this being the
          exciting, glamourous, and perhaps the most fascinating period of his career, there is more material to write
          about. But after more than three years of strife, Wilder only thirty-five, had yet more than fifty years to
          live, during which time he engaged in a daring and brilliant business career.
            More than half a century was devoted to invention and industry involving iron manufacturing and coal mining
          in East 
                  Tennessee
               , in a region he had earlier fought over as enemy's country. To this remarkable business
          venture, when Wilder  really became a successful promoter in the New
          South, only about nine printed pages are given in the biography. It is regrettable that the author, who knew
          General Wilder personally, did not enlarge more on the later and more important part of a long and useful
          life.
            It has been stated that Wilder's military career in the Civil War is well sketched. The author in
          his preface says that no history of his brigade has yet been written, but makes the challenging assertion that
          "no single brigade of that war earned such renown as did Wilder's Lightning
          Brigade." Wilder enlisted at 
                  Greensburg
                with the Seventeenth Indiana Infantry as a Captain, but soon became a Lieutenant-Colonel. He
          first saw active service with his regiment at Cheat Mountain in what was then western 
                  Virginia
               . Late in the fall of 1861, the Seventeenth Indiana Infantry was sent to 
                  Louisville
                where it was incorporated in Buell's Army of the 
                  Ohio
               . Early in 1862, Wilder became the Colonel of his regiment, saw service in 
                  Alabama, Tennessee
                and 
                  Kentucky
               , and by September of that year, he was stationed on the south side of Green River at Munfordville
          with about 3500 men to guard a railroad bridge. There he was surrounded by nearly all of General
          Bragg's army. After a gallant defense during which he was repeatedly asked to surrender, he did a
          very unique thing in military history. He asked advice from the Confederate General Simon B. Buckner as to
          what he ought to do in his predicament. Buckner's and Wilder's stories about the incident
          differ in details but are mainly in agreement on the final results. The fort was surrendered to Bragg and the
          latter designated Buckner to receive Wilder's sword. Ever afterward Wilder blamed Buell, who was then
          on his march to 
                  Louisville
                to intercept Bragg, for not rescuing him at Munfordville.
            Wilder's brigade did heroic work at 
                  Chattanooga
                and also at Chickamauga. It became equipped with 
                  Spencer
                rifles, and was mounted part of the time as a cavalry force. Soon after the battle of Chickamauga
          Wilder was made a Brigadier-General. In the fall of 1864, ill health forced his resignation from the Army
          after a very honorable service. In 1866 he left Indiana and lived, until his death in 1917, in East Tennesse,
          most of the time at 
                  Chattanooga
                and 
                  Johnson City
               . The General was a man of fine appearance and the author depicts well his sterling character.
          While holding several positions of honor  and trust, mostly appointive, he
          was essentially a business man and too frank to be a politician.
            Judge Williams uses a free, easy style in his narrative, interest never flags, and anyone who reads the
          biography will express regret at its brevity. The citations include a long list of good secondary authorities,
          and the footnotes are invaluable. The appendices of nearly fifty pages include a collection of very
          interesting and important source data. A table of contents and index are ommitted, but, due to the size of the
          book, this omission may be pardoned. Mechanically, the monograph is splendidly printed in large, clear type
          and it is attractively bound. The little volume will be read with profit by anyone caring to know about a
          virile, active, much-loved man, whose memory should be perpetuated.
            ARNDT M. SLICKLES
            
         
         
            
               Daniel Yandes and His Family. By his grand-daughter, Annabelle Robinson, Mary Yandes
          Robinson, and Josephine Robinson. Published by R. E. Banta, 
                  Crawfordsville
               , 1936. Pp. 205, illustrated.
            The sub-title, "Pioneers from 
                  Pennsylvania
                to Indiana 1818," arouses the reader's interest in this handsomely printed and
          handsomely bound volume. In the pages of these nine chapters are interesting descriptions of the development
          of Indiana and of the 
                  Capital City
               , while many phases of pioneer life are also pictured.
            Though Daniel Yandes is made the central figure of the book, most of the volume deals with his children. From
          his ancestors the pioneer Daniel inherited health, enterprise, thrift, a spirit of adventure, a belief in God
          and a faith in his fellowmen. These characteristics, coupled with a keen enjoyment in living, made him very
          valuable to his adopted state.
            The Yandes family came to the site selected for 
                  Indianapolis
                in 1821. It is interesting to watch the development of the several homes of the Yandes family
          from cabin to palatial residence. The locations of these several homes are of interest. The fifth was on the
          site of the 
                  Indianapolis
                Federal Building and the last on the site of the present Indiana University Extension Center.
            The Second Presbyterian Church of 
                  Indianapolis
               , which Daniel Yandes helped to found in 1838 and in which the members  of his family continued to show such a deep interest, was on the site of the
          present English Hotel. Because this part of the city was becoming the business center, the church was moved to
          the northwest corner of 
                  Pennsylvania
                and 
                  Vermont
                streets in 1870.
            Daniel Yandes was much interested in building, governing, financing and developing his city, county, and
          state. His descendants have rightly held that he "lived his life fearlessly, uprightly,
          energetically, with good fellowship for his brother man, retaining, even in old age, keen interest in the
          world's progress, and venturing to keep in step."
            Six chapters (II-VII) relate to the children of Daniel Yandes—Simon Yandes, James Wilson Yandes,
          Mary Yandes Wheeler, Catherine Yandes Fletcher, Elizabeth Yandes Robinson, and George Bush Yandes. These
          chapters are well written and fascinating. There is an eighth chapter on the "Yandes
          Memorial" and a final chapter devoted to "Grandfather's Clock," a prized
          possession of George Bush Yandes.
            The eldest son of Daniel and Anna Yandes, Simon Yandes, became an influential and wealthy citizen of Indiana.
          In this volume he is classified as a rare man whose activities were a very important "factor in the
          development of the religious, educational, and business life of 
                  Indianapolis
                and the State." In middle life and during his later years, this outstanding member of
          the Yandes family, who was never married, gave away large sums of money to 
                  Wabash
                College, to missionary societies, and to relatives. In all, his gifts amounted to about a million
          dollars. At his death, his estate was valued at $30,000. The lives of the brothers and sisters of
          Simon Yandes are sketched in an impartial manner, but space does not permit a notice of each one.
            The authors of the book are daughters of Elizabeth Yandes Robinson and granddaughters of Daniel and Anna
          Yandes. One of the sisters was born in her grandfather's home, and all three of them were permitted
          to spend many years in companionship with their mother who died in 1904. The last survivor of the immediate
          family of Daniel Yandes was George Bush Yandes, who lived until 1913. Like his brother Simon, George did not
          marry. The writers of the volume knew him intimately, and mention him as the member of the family of Daniel
          Yandes, "in the remembrance of  whom this book has been
          compiled." The third of the brothers, James Wilson Yandes, married Fanny Bliss Button, but the only
          son born to this union died at birth. There are descendants of Daniel Yandes, but not one who bears his name.
            The volume under review is not a narrative history of the Yandes family, but presents, along with character
          sketches a large amount of source matter, including birth and death records, copies of business papers,
          excerpts from newspapers and addresses of various kinds. It is a useful as well as an interesting book, and
          many readers of the Magazine should find it both helpful and enjoyable.
            BERTHA THOMAS LYNCH.
         
         
            
               A Naval History of 
                     Vincennes
                  , Indiana, is the rather startling title of a pamphlet by Mr. Curtis G. Shake of that city.
          Although 
                  Vincennes
                is 500 miles from the sea, it has "furnished to the 
                  United States
                Navy a vice admiral, a rear admiral, and a number of other officers of lesser rank."
          Twice war vessels of the Government have been named after 
                  Vincennes
               . The first was the sloop 
                  
                     Vincennes
                  
               , the second is a heavy cruiser now under construction at 
                  Quincy, Massachusetts
               . The new ship 
                  
                     Vincennes
                  
                is scheduled for completion in January, 1937. The date for launching was May 21, 1936, at which time
          Miss Harriet 
                  Virginia
                Kimmell, daughter of Mayor Joseph W. Kimmell of 
                  Vincennes
               , acted as sponsor of the cruiser. The bottle of Champagne used in the ceremony "was sent
          to America for that specific purpose by Monsieur Leon Bonvoisin, Chevalier de la Legion D'Honneur,
          Mayor of 
                  Vincennes, France
               . The pamphlet runs to twenty-three pages, carries appropriate illustrations, and
          furnishes pertinent information to readers relative to the two vessels and the men of 
                  Vincennes
                who became officers in the Navy.
            
               The Territorial Papers of the 
                     United States
                  
               , Volume IV, compiled and edited by Clarence Edwin Carter, was recently issued from the
          Government Printing Office in 
                  Washington
               . The volume pertains to "The Territory South of the 
                  Ohio
                River, 1790–1796." The following statement from the press release of June 15,
          1936, relative to the new publication indicates something of the contents of the publication:
            
            
               The volume embodies the official papers of the Territory South of the 
                     Ohio
                   River, 1790–1796, which was created out of the State of 
                     North Carolina
                   and from which originated the State of 
                     Tennessee
                  . Among the general features of the volume may be noted (1) the circumstances of the origin of
            the territory; (2) the unique character of the land system; (3) the constant state of war between settlers
            and Indians; (4) the beginnings of the Indian policy of the 
                     United States
                  ; (5) the creation of local government; and (6) the establishment of post roads and the
            extension of the postal system to distant frontier settlements within the territory.
            
            A review of this volume will appear in our next issue. The book may be obtained from the Superintendent of
          Documents, Government Printing Office, 
                  Washington
               , D. C., for $1.75 per copy.
            An article by Robert B. Yule, "The 
                  Vincennes
                Bridge over the 
                  Wabash
               ," appeared in the June, 1935, issue of this Magazine. This historical
          sketch was republished in the 
                  Vincennes
               
               Sun-Commercial on Sunday, June 14, 1936, with the omission of the last four pages of the
          article in which the author presented some technical matter. Few important bridges in Indiana have had such an
          interesting history as the old bridge across the 
                  Wabash
               , recently replaced by the splendid Clark Memorial Bridge.
         
         
         
            Editor's Pages
            BEGINNINGS OF A POSSIBLE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
            By a Man of Common Clay
            II
            The farm of one hundred forty acres on which I was born,1 with the exception of twenty
          acres, remained in my father's possession until 1896. When I was five years old, there were about
          sixty-five acres, less than half, under cultivation. The cleared fields were enclosed with rail fences. For a
          few years there were several fields of about ten acres each and one of fifteen which was increased to twenty.
          In two or three fields there were a few large stumps left, but in the others there were many, both little and
          big. Twenty acres, lying north of the western half of the eighty which constituted the main portion of the
          farm, we always called the "woods-pasture." A forested area in the form of a square, which
          "cornered" the eighty to the northeast, known as "the forty acres",
          remained in timber until after the farm passed from my father's hands.
            Though titles to the lands in the general area where we lived had been acquired from the Federal government
          by 1835, in the immediate vicinity of our farm, there was much uncleared land forty years later. Indeed
          "the forty acres" formed a part of a continuous forest of about twelve hundred
          acres—by everybody called the "big woods." My boyhood was spent in a sort of
          "retarded frontier" country. I saw cabin-raisings and log-rollings. I saw "Uncle
          Eleck" (Alexander) Lane2 and others make clap-boards. I saw rail-splitting often,
          and several times handled the maul and wedge myself.
            As fields were cleared, many fine trees were made into sawlogs which were hauled to the mills, frequently by
          ox teams. Much lime was manufactured at Delphi, and, for a number of years, a vast quantity of cord-wood was
          cut every winter to be hauled to the kilms where it was used to "burn" limestone. It was
          customary to make two loads a day from farms as far away as four or five miles. This kept man 
                  
                     1 The first installment of this autobiographical sketch appeared in our March
              issue.
                  
                     2 Alexander Lane was not my uncle, but was generally called "Uncle
              Eleck," He was a fiddler known far and wide. A brother, John Lane, married my father's
              oldest sister.
               
                and team moving all day. Much of the hauling was done during the months
          of August, September and October.
            It was in October of 1889, that I had my short, but strenuous, experience with cord-wood. It never fell to my
          lot to cut four-foot wood, but I well remember my two rounds trip per day for a few weeks. I did not mind the
          work, or the time, or the frosty, fall mornings, but I did suffer from a foolish pride while driving through
          the county-seat to the Cartwright Lime-kiln, sitting conspicuously on top of a high load. More than a year
          earlier, I had finished high school. Now I imagined that people who saw me were saying:
          "That's young Lynch. It was generally supposed that we would amount to something, in the
          world, but he's hauling cord-wood." As I grew older, I became sure that no
          one said anything of the kind. I am now certain that most of those who observed me did not give a thought to
          my future. Perhaps a few of them entertained some such passing notion as this: "That boy may amount
          to something yet. He didn't show much promise when here in high school, but now, at least, he seems
          willing to do useful work."
            A great many of the families of Delphi heated their homes with wood, and thus furnished a market to farmers
          in moderate circumstances. At any rate, there were some "stove-wood farmers" in each
          neighborhood who picked up several dollars on the side each year by cutting and hauling wood to town. For a
          good many years, the price of a single wagon-box3 load of stove-wood was $1.25.
          This was not a large sum, but in the seventies and eighties, it was not to be despised. Sometimes the wood was
          sold or "engaged" in advance, and only delivery was necessary when taken to the city.
          However, in many instances, the farmers simply drove up to the hitch-rack that surrounded the courthouse
          square and wailed for a customer. Though the forests served many useful purposes, it is true that a great
          number of valuable as well as inferior trees were "deadened"4 by
          girdling in order that the ground might be brought under cultivation sooner. Whether first
          "deadened" or not, many trees were felled, cut into convenient lengths, and rolled into
          log-heaps to be burned.
            
               
                  3 The wagon-box was called wagon-bed by most of the people whom I
            knew when a boy. Without the additional boards that could be placed above the regular sides and ends of the
            wagon-box, it was called the single-bed, while with the extra boards it was called the double-bed.
               
               
                  4 A grove with all the trees girdled was known as a deadening,
            usually pronounced deadnen.
               
            
            
            In the days when the forests of Indiana were being rapidly destroyed, a goodly number of poor men in the
          country districts, especially during the winter months, found employment as woodcutters, loggers and
          rail-splitters, while others worked at the sawmills. These laborers, with their families, usually lived in
          small homes scattered over the country either along the edges of the forests or in the villages. These winter
          employments made it possible for enough men to dwell in rural areas to supply the extra farm help needed
          during the summer months. As the timber became scarce, farmers faced a labor problem that was solved in time
          mainly through the purchase of labor-saving machinery. Many a property-less man of the countryside was not
          lured to the city by the attractions of urban life, but was forced to go because winter work disappeared with
          the slaughter of the forests.
            Any mind gifted enough to find it can discover real drama anywhere. Marriage, the birth of children, the
          struggle to make a living, the necessary relations with neighbors, the uncertainties and mysteries of life,
          the continuous round of happenings, little and big, that bring happiness, anxiety, sorrow, or deep
          fear—all these are present in almost every family, and they both disturb and enrich the flowing,
          changing currents of family existence. At times the conditions that faced our family were hard. There was
          never a chance that ease and luxury would ruin us. On the whole, there was a persistent struggle that resulted
          in enough to provide a fair degree of comfort. I was the second of seven children who grew to maturity. There
          were five sisters and one brother, the latter being seven years younger than myself. A sixth sister died at
          thirteen years of age, and a second brother at eighteen months.5 Years of good health,
          good crops, and good prices were well jumbled with wet years, dry years, low prices, and doctor bills. In some
          years, there was an economic advance, everything taken into consideration, but as the years passed by, there
          was a slow but sure increase in the modest debt that encumbered the land from the beginning.
            Both my father and mother were eager that each child should have all the educational advantages that could be
          provided. 
                  
                     5 The sister died a week after being caught in a cold spring rain when on the way
              to school. Probably no serious results would have followed, but for the fact that the teacher arrived late
              on that important morning which made it necessary for pupils to stand outside in the chilly air. A
              "congestive chill" followed which ran into pneumonia. The little boy died from an
              abscess that formed in one lung, due to a grain of corn being accidentally drawn down into the base of a
              bronchial tube.
               
                The country school which we attended was a good mile and a quarter from
          our home. It was known as the Plank Road School,6 and was in District 5 of Deer Creek
          Township. Until the day of consolidation, there were eight district schools within this township outside of
          Delphi. I learned to read fairly well, spell poorly (mostly by sound), and count some, as a result of a little
          occasional teaching at home before I was six. A few days after my sixth anniversary, I began my school career.
          My first teacher was Dallas Odell, a scion of a pioneer family. I remember him as a kind man, who taught the
          older classes with a good deal of enthusiasm. Naturally he had not much time for beginners, but I made fair
          progress in reading and learned a little in the field of numbers. By the end of the six-months term, I could
          spell all the words in the Elementary Spelling Book from go to perpendicular and parallel.
            
            During the next three years, I moved along regularly, as far as that was possible, I suppose, in a large and
          very irregular school which included pupils from six to eighteen or twenty years of age in all stages of
          advancement. The school-house was a red-brown frame building from which the ground sloped gently away on the
          west and south. Many fine things have been written about the "little red school-houses," and
          they did indeed serve a great purpose. They did not, however, serve the pupils well in every way. At the Plank
          Road School, there were always several boys who were very profane and vulgar in speech, and there was almost
          nothing that a boy was not obliged to learn on the play-ground. I fear that this was true in too many country
          schools all over the land.
            In the summer following my second year in school, I went through a long illness, the only one of a serious
          nature during my entire life. Our family physician, Dr. I. N. Cochran, pronounced the disease
          "brain-fever," which was, I suppose, another name for typhoid fever. One bad result of this
          sickness was that I was induced to believe that I must be 
                  
                     6 The road from Delphi to 
                        Frankfort
                      was "planked," at one time, but was neglected and went rapidly into decay.
              An occasional plank in a mud-hole or at the side of the road was all that was left of this ambitious
              venture in road building, at the time of my earliest recollections. One of these discarded boards caught
              in the wheel of a passing wagon, suddenly raising one side of the wagon off the ground and throwing out a
              woman occupant. The accident, which happened a quarter of a mile from our home about 1879, resulted
              fatally.
                  
                     7 My teachers in the Plank Eoad School with dates were: Dallas Odell,
              1876–1877; Philip Stinebaugh, 1877–1878; John Ashby, 1878–1879; Charles
              Buckley and George Saylors (each for a half term), 1879–1880; Miss Mary Brough,
              1880–1881; Miss Alice M. Crowder, 1881–1882. William Whittaker,
                1882–18832 Miss Alice M. Crowder, 1883–1884; Edwin Sines,
              1884–1885.
               
                constantly on my guard against over-exertion. From that summer until I
          was a freshman in high-school, I did not engage strenuously enough in rough and tumble sports with other boys.
            In the early spring of 1879, I had an experience that is perhaps worth telling. The Prince William Road
          passed to the west of the school nearly a half mile and angled to the southeast. By following a line-fence
          that ran due south from the east side of the school-yard, one came to the angling road and saved quite a
          little distance. When the roads were bad, my older sister and myself often took this
          "short-cut" along with three of the Ashby children who then lived just northwest of us. A
          small run, Bridge Creek, flowed through a valley south of the school-yard. On the evening of my story, the
          creek, swollen by heavy rains, was out of its banks. To cross, it was necessary to climb along the rail-fence
          for perhaps fifty yards. Fred Ashby was far in the lead and I was next. The two Ashby girls and my sister were
          trailing me, probably fifty feet. I came to higher ground between the winding creek and flooded area already
          passed over and a new channel about eight feet wide, six feet deep, and one hundred twenty-five feet long,
          that had recently been cut in an attempt to straighten the course of the stream. This new channel was just
          about bank full. I was not familiar with it. I looked ahead, and, believing that the young man in front of me
          must have waded this narrow bit of water, I stepped into the rushing current. I immediately learned that this
          was a serious blunder.
            My light body was carried swiftly under the fence—a straight rail panel that reached across the
          cut from bank to bank. There was not much time to think. I did not know how to swim, but, for some
          unaccountable reason, I did not strangle though I went under several times after the first plunge. I recall
          very distinctly that the thought came to my mind: "I must try to swim." I am sure that I
          paddled and kicked some as the current hurried me along. Something over one hundred feet from where I took the
          plunge, I gained a footing and was able to stand in the water which came just about to my shoulders.8
            
            
               
                  8 My impression was that, as I was swept along, I was finally able to touch bottom
            with my knees and that I was on my knees when Mr. Ashby reached me. He maintained that, when he took hold of
            my arm at the shoulder, I began to walk. Assuming that he must have been correct, I have given his story
            rather than mine
            
            
            Meanwhile the three girls, who were making their way on the fence behind, saw me going down the narrow
          channel and raised a great outcry. The teacher, John Ashby, an older brother of the Ashby children, heard the
          distress signals, ran from the school building, leaped the play-ground fence, ran down the hill and into the
          water to rescue me. I was in a safe place before his arrival, but whether I could have waded out in either
          direction is a question. The teacher declared that he waded water above his waist while coming in after me,
          but that was before he reached the more shallow water where I was marooned.
            I was neither injured nor frightened and walked home with the girls who generously placed some shawls or
          coats around me. Even the thorough wetting in the chilly water did not affect me. My companions guarded me
          carefully on the way home as they had been thoroughly scared. I must have felt very well, because I pretended
          to be frightened whenever we passed hollow places filled with water. I laughed inwardly when the older Ashby
          girl said softly to the others: "Poor little boy. He's afraid of water now."
            I spent nine years in that country school, at least one more than the regulation number. In those days one
          often promoted himself, as he saw fit, or took up new subjects ahead of time if he wished. Taking it by and
          large, the school was a good one for its day. I believe that the teachers through whose hands I passed were
          above the general run. I am certain, however, that I was furnished with only about half enough work in seven
          out of nine years. It was during my sixth and eighth years that I was taught by a really superior teacher,
          Miss Alice M. Crowder, who afterwards married a man by the name of Sharp. She was accurate and efficient,
          asked for real work and got it. Under her instruction, I learned more about how to work and gained more
          inspiration than I did either before or afterwards, until I was beyond high school.
            It was the custom during the earlier years of my period in the country school for spelling classes, when
          called, to line up in front of the school. The words in the lesson were pronounced by the teacher and spelled
          by the pupils in turn beginning
                  on this point. It is possible that as I reached the end of the new channel, I was swept toward the
              right bank of the old creek bed. In this case, I probably did land on my knees on the water-covered bank,
              and I may have succeeded in getting to my feet before my rescuer got hold of me.
               
                at the head of the class. If any one in the line misspelled a word, the
          first one below who succeeded in spelling it correctly went above the first to miss. On some days, there was
          not a single failure. On other days, one, two or more words were spelled incorrectly. The one who stood at the
          head of the class at the end of the lesson started at the foot on the next school day. A mark was placed in
          the teacher's record book after the name of the one who stood in the first place each day. This was
          called a head-mark and often, as the school year approached the end, there were two or three pupils who were
          running a close race. It was an honor to win the largest number of head-marks during the year. Twice at least,
          I received the prize that was given to the winner. The second time, I was tied with a boy, a bit older than
          myself, who was in the same class, only a week before the last day of school. My turn would regularly come
          first for the next mark, and there would not be enough days for my dangerous rival to work to the top after
          me, unless two or three members of the class should fail to spell well. There was a good deal of interest in
          the race, and some who were friendly to me urged the pupils who stood higher in the line than my rival to work
          unusually hard on their lessons, which they did. The consequence was that my friend, Frank Myres, was about
          two places below the head of the line when the last set of words were pronounced and the prize fell to me.
            Three or four years later, I went to the nearest school in 
                  Madison
                Township (Silver Beach) to attend a spelling match at night. I did not expect to go, but an older
          boy came past our home and promised to look after me if my parents would permit me to accompany him. I was
          happy to hear a favorable answer. The distance was little more than a mile. For about half the distance, we
          walked south on the railroad and then west on a narrow and not much used high-way. I was a slender lad, twelve
          years of age, at the time, and somewhat frightened when all who wished to participate in the contest stood up
          in a line that reached entirely around the room, myself with the rest. There were some casualties on each
          round, but I happened to spell correctly the words that fell to me. After about forty minutes, the crowd was
          astonished to find that the only persons left standing were myself and a young man about twice my age. For a
          short time each of us continued to spell correctly, one  after the other,
          the words pronounced to us. I had no thought of winning, but I did my best. The word plateau
          came to the tall young men who stood near me, which to my surprise, he spelled platteau. The
          master of ceremonies said clearly and with some excitement, "next," and I came through
          triumphantly. The spelling match was over and we started home. Several boys walked eastward along the road.
          There was a small amount of snow on the ground and some one came along with a team and bob-sled. The boys all
          jumped on except myself. I made the attempt but failed and was left alone with about three quarters of a mile
          to cover at ten o'clock at night. I was not particularly happy, but since there was nothing else to
          do I trudged along toward home, arriving safely, with some big news to tell at breakfast the next morning.
            I was not much interested in winning laurels as a speller, and I attended very few spelling matches as I grew
          older. There were persons in many communities who became expert spellers. Miss Sue Wingard of our neighborhood
          and John Gillam of the next school district eastward were known far and wide as champions. They took part in
          many contests and usually one or the other was the victor wherever they might appear. In the eighties, the
          ciphering match tended to supersede the spelling match. By the end of the century one seldom heard of either,
          though local contests within single schools continued to be held on Friday afternoons for some years after
          interest had waned in regard to public matches.
         
         
         
            CONTRIBUTORS
               TO
               THIS ISSUE: Raymond J. Reece is associate professor of history at
          Indiana State Teachers College, 
                  Terre Haute
               . He is preparing a doctor's thesis on the public career of Hugh McCulloch. Lee Newcomer
          was recently a graduate student at Depauw University, and is now doing graduate work at 
                  Ohio
                State University, 
                  Columbus
               . Benjamin Cohen is now an interne in the Cook County Hospital, 
                  Chicago
               , having completed a course in the Medical School of 
                  Chicago
                University in 1935. He did graduate work at Indiana University in 1930–31, and
          received the A.M. degree in history. Leonard S. Kenworthy is assistant to the Head Master, Friends Select
          School, 
                  Philadelphia
               . A study of the political career of Daniel W. Voorhees, under the title, The Tall
            Sycamore of the 
                     Wabash
                  
               , by Mr. Ken-worthy, has just been published by Bruce Humphries, Inc., of 
                  Boston
               . Dr. Milo M. Quaife is Secretary-Editor of The Burton Historical Collection, The Public Library,
              
                  Detroit, Michigan
               . Fred Cole, a native of Indiana, is an assistant in History at 
                  Louisiana
                State University, 
                  Baton Rouge
               . Dr. Arndt M. Stickles is professor of history at the Western 
                  Kentucky
                State Teachers College, Bowling Green. Bertha Thomas (Mrs. William O.) Lynch is a resident of 
                  Bloomington
               , Indiana.
         
         
         
            Reprints
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History may be obtained by any
          contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as many reprints of
          any article as may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before
          the issue containing the article of which reprints are desired is published.
         
         
            Wanted
            We hope that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The Library of
          Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need of copies of the issues
          mentioned in order to complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above the regular rates will be
          paid. Persons possessing any of the desired publications may write to the Indiana Magazine of
            History.
            
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a series need of more copies of the following numbers,
          especially those marked with asterisks:
            
               ∗Volume I, 3, 4 (Sept., Dec., 1905).
               Volume II, 2, 4 (June, Dec., 1906).
               Volume III, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1907).
               Volume IV, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1908).
               Volume V, 2, 3, 4 (June, Sept., Dec., 1909).
               Volume VI, 1, 3, 4 (March, Sept., Dec., 1910).
               Volume VII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1911).
               ∗Volume VIII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1912).
               Volume IX, 1 (March, 1913).
               ∗Volume X, 1 (March, 1914).
               ∗Volume XVII, 4 (Dec., 1921).
               Volume XVIII, 1 (March, 1922).
               Volume XXII, 1 (March, 1926).
            
            Full sets of the Magazine can rarely be supplied to libraries or individuals who may desire
          to purchase. A complete file from 1920 forward can be supplied at fifty cents a copy, or two dollars per
          volume, unbound; from 1914 to 1919, the price is one dollar per copy, or four dollars per volume. Issues from
          1905–1913, when they can be supplied at all, will be sold at one and a half dollars per number.
            
            The Indiana University Library needs the following publications to complete its files. Anyone having any of
          these publications will confer a great favor by writing to W.A. Alexander, Librarian of Indiana University, 
                  Bloomington
               , Indiana.
            
               The Indiana Alumnus
            
            
               Volume VI, 14 (Dec. 25, 1926). Wanted 3 copies.
               Volume VI, 16 (Jan. 16, 1927). Wanted 2 copies.
            
            
               The Indiana University Catalogue. The University needs the following to fill out the files.
            
               1832–1833. Wanted 3 copies.
               1833–1834. Wanted 3 copies.
               1834–1835. Wanted 3 copies.
               1836–1837. Wanted 2 copies.
               1837–1838. Wanted 2 copies.
               1839–1840. Wanted 2 copies.
               1840–1841. Wanted 2 copies.
               1843–1844. Wanted 2 copies.
               1849–1850. Wanted 2 copies.
               1853–1854. Wanted 2 copies.
            
            
               The Indiana School Journal. Wanted Volume XXXVII (1892) and Volume XXXVIII (1893).
            
               Lincoln Lore. Wanted copies of Numbers 3–8, 10–11, 13,
          15–17, 22, 26–29, 34 and 35 of 1929; Numbers 53 and 60 of 1330.
            
               Indiana Law Journal. Wanted copies of: Vol. I, No. 1; Vol. II, Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6; Vol.
          III, Nos. 1, 5, 6. The desired copies were published at 
                  Indianapolis
                during 1898–1899.
         
      
   
