
   ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 39, Issue 1, pages 1-106. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:39+issue:1+year:1943&browseMode=source
    
   ----FULL TEXT----
        
    
      
      
    
    
      
      
        The Struggle for the 
            Michigan
           Road
        GENEAL PRATHER
        Of all the historic highways in the Old Northwest none has a more interesting history than the Old 
            Michigan
           Road. With only a few minor changes in routing, this road, over a century old, still
                    curves up across Indiana from 
            Madison
           in the southeast to 
            Michigan
           City in the northwest corner of the state.1 Until the railroads
                    were built, this most famous of Indiana's state highways was used more than any other route
                    of travel in the state, with the exception of the Gateway route, the Old National Road. Half of the
                    pioneers of northwestern Indiana reached their homes over this road. It passed through fourteen
                    counties and was used by the inhabitants of thirty-five in going to the capital.2 Built in the decade of 1830 to 1840 and still serving as one of the state's main
                    thoroughfares, its career to date might be summed up in the phrase—a decade to build, a
                    century of use.
        There was great need for the new road. The immigrant needed a way to reach the lands opened in
                    central Indiana by the New Purchase of 1818. After he had settled, cleared, and started producing,
                    he needed a means of disposing of his surplus; in fact, the prospects of disposing of his surplus
                    generally determined the place of settlement. The new territory as well as the older sections needed
                    more and better connections with the central part of the state and with the capital, which had been
                    transferred to 
            Indianapolis
           in 1824. The 
            Michigan

           Road was the first to reach upward into the great north central section of Indiana.
                    Those who 
            
              1 It follows the route now marked as State Highway 29 from 
                Madison
               to 
                Logansport
              . From there it is now designated as Highway 35 to 
                Rochester
              ; as Highway 31 from 
                Rochester
               to 
                South Bend
              ; and as Highway 20 from there to its northwestern terminus at 
                Michigan
               City—a total distance of 265 miles.
            
              2 Logan Esarey, History of Indiana (2 vols., 
                Fort Wayne
              , 1924), I, 295–96.
          
           looked ahead to the time when not only the New Purchase but also
                    the remainder of northern Indiana would be settled felt that an outlet to Lake
                    Michigan would aid in solving their market problem.
        The argument of military necessity for the road was useful in Congress in securing the necessary
                    appropriation to make a treaty with the Indians. In his monograph, "The 
            Wabash

           Trade Route in the Development of the Old Northwest," Elbert J. Benton wrote:
                        

            Together with the economic factors voiced in the demand for national aid in constructing
                            roads and canals, there was a strong military need. The experience of the Northwestern
                            campaigns of the War of 1812 had demonstrated the futility of military operations with
                            inadequate means of transporting troops and supplies. These expeditions were almost
                            invariably failures due to defective transportation…. In Congress this motive was
                            doubtless the deciding factor….3
            
          
        
        The desire to expedite the removal of the Indians from the fertile lands north of the 
            Wabash

           was another leading factor in the plans for this road. Not only would the land secured
                    directly bring about the westward movement of the Indians, but the road and the lands adjoining
                    would serve as a wedge in bringing about further removals.4
        
        In the 1820's the steamboat era was dawning on the 
            Mississippi
           and 
            Ohio
          . But the navigable streams and the steamboat were not readily accessible to the
                    majority of the people, and railroads were scarcely heard of yet. Roads were needed to supplement
                    the streams.

        The roads of the time got worse as one went farther west. At this time, to lay out a road generally
                    meant to drag a log through the woods, prairies, and marshes with an ox team.5
                    Naturally, such roads looked better on paper than they were. "A road on a statute book or
                    on a map was one 
            
              3 Elbert J. Benton, "The 
                Wabash

               Trade Route in the Development of the Old Northwest," Johns Hopkins
                            University Studies in Historical and Political Science (
                Baltimore
              , 1883-), XXI (1903), nos. 1–2, pp. 36–37.
            
              4 The reason for the road as implied by the legislative title and the
                            name by which it was often referred to—"a road to connect Lake
                                Michigan and the Ohio River"—was
                            probably the least important. The people of Indiana could use either of those two water
                            routes, depending upon their dwelling place, and would desire connection with one or the
                            other; but the 
                Michigan
               Road never served as a connecting link between the lake and the Ohio
                                River.
            
              5 R. Carlyle Buley, MS., Trade, Travel, and Transportation in the Old
                            Northwest.
          
           thing; the actual road might be anything from a morass to a
                    passable affair."6 Often on these roads would be found some
                    "carefully fostered" mudholes, which had "proprietors" with
                    established prices for pulling travelers out of the mud; and the "business"
                    occasionally was bought or sold.7 There are no official reports of such
                    transactions on the 
            Michigan

           Road, but travelers reported it possible to travel on any of the roads by land or by
                    water during the wet season. That was true even of the city streets at this time.8
        
        The bad roads were an advantage to 
            New Orleans
           over the more direct routes to the East, but the westerner found that 
            New Orleans
           was still too far and the upstream trip too expensive. The steamboat record for the
                    trip from 
            New Orleans
           to 
            Louisville
           was, in 1817, twenty-five days. In 1819 the cost of a cabin passage from 
            New Orleans
           to 
            Louisville
           was $125 and $75 for the return downstream.9
                    A stagecoach jolt from 
            Washington
          , B.C., to 
            Indianapolis

           would have cost about $50. The coach rate was from six to seven cents per
                    mile, and the ordinary price of board and lodging was a dollar a day for the seven-day trip.10
        

        It is difficult to imagine the isolation that existed before the fifties in Indiana and other parts
                    of the West. In 1825 there were routes of travel, but no railroad, no canal, and no turnpike.11 When the state records were moved from Corydon to 
            Indianapolis

           in the fall of 1824 by Treasurer Samuel Merrill, two weeks were required to make the
                    journey of about 160 miles, with eleven miles as the best day's travel.12
        
        Indiana was then and for many years afterward purely an agricultural state and her greatest need was
                    means of transportation. The need for markets was becoming vital. "In the spring of 1826,
                    152 flatboats passed 
            Vincennes
           loaded for 
            New Orleans

          ," carrying "250,000 bushels of corn, 100,000 barrels of pork, 10,000
                    hams, 2500 live cattle, 10,000 pounds of beeswax, 3600 venison hams, besides hogs, oats, 
            
              6
              Ibid.
            
              7
              Ibid.
            
              8 Jacob P. Dunn, Greater 
                  Indianapolis
                
               (2 vols., 
                Chicago
              , 1910), I, 117.
            
              9 Robert E. Riegel, America Moves West (
                New York
              , 1930), 168.
            
              10
              Ibid., 156–57.
            
              11 Logan Esarey, "Internal Improvements in Indiana,"
                            Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                Indianapolis
              , 1886-), V (1912), 51.
            
              12 Jacob P. Dunn, Indiana and Indianans (5 vols., 
                Chicago
              , 1919), I, 369.
          
           meal, chickens, etc."13 Clogging of
                    the storage facilities at 
            New Orleans
           during the busy season while goods were waiting for reshipment to 
            New York
           or Europe caused low prices and the loss of much goods.
        Surplus products, such as hogs, cattle, or grain, were a drug until shipped to a distant market; and
                    even then the price was wholly out of proportion to the labor and cost of getting them there. Corn
                    could be bought in the West for fifteen cents per bushel, but the freight cost to 
            New York
           was fifty cents per bushel. Instances are given of farmers who, after arduously hauling
                    loads of wheat for a hundred miles or more over quagmire roads to 
            Madison
           or 
            Cincinnati

          , turned about, disgusted at the low prices offered, and hauled their loads back home in
                    the hope of better prices later.14
        
        The reasons for the high prices of the articles the farmer had to buy were likewise evident. The
                    early merchants in the 
            Evansville
           sector were said to await their supplies from eastern markets as a coast merchant might
                    await the return of sailing vessels from foreign ports. "Articles of wearing apparel,
                    cloth, cutlery, etc., had to be purchased in such markets as 
            Baltimore
           and 
            Philadelphia
          , and hauled over the mountains to 
            Pittsburgh
           in wagons," and shipped down the 
            Ohio
           on boats to the villages there.15 If goods had to be hauled away
                    from the river to the interior, it is evident that the inequalities of exchange increased. The wagon
                    rates from the Falls of the 
            Ohio
           to 
            Terre Haute

           were $1.50 per hundred pounds. It required about a pound of nails, a
                    "bushel of wheat, or two bushels of corn to buy a yard of calico or a pound of
                        coffee."16
        
        In the early winter of 1825 the Indiana Journal suspended publication because of
                    delay in getting paper through from 
            Cincinnati
          . Notices that publication would have to be temporarily suspended were common in the
                    papers of the period. Good roads or better roads seemed to be the only hope of the pioneer.
        
          
            13
            
              Vincennes
            , Indiana, Western Sun, June 17, 1826; cited by Esarey in
                        "Internal Improvements in Indiana," Indiana Historical Society Publications,
                        V, 75.
          
            14 George S. Cottman, "Early Commerce in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, IV (1908), 4.
          
            15 Joseph P. Elliott, History of 
                Evansville
               and 
                Vanderburgh County
              
             (
              Evansville
            , 1897), 98.
          
            16 Cottman, "Early Commerce in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, IV, 5–6.
        
        
        As transportation to the East by land was quicker and cheaper than that by the long water route via 
            New Orleans
          , more attention was turned to improving the shorter land connections to the East. In
                    spite of the difficult haul, many goods were brought down the 
            Ohio
          —thus the demand for connections with the Ohio River.
                    This was not so difficult in 1816, when Indiana's population of approximately 65,000 people
                    lived chiefly in the Whitewater Valley, on the lower 
            Wabash
          , and along the Ohio River hills.17 But in
                    1825, Indiana had fifty-two counties and the line of settlement was well north of the not yet opened
                    National Road. By 1830 the population had reached 343,031.18
        
        The building of the 
            Michigan

           Road was largely a part of the great national and sectional agitation for internal
                    improvements which influenced so much not only state and local but also national politics in the
                    next two decades. The provision for the survey of the National Road in 1806 was not the beginning of
                    a federal program of internal improvements, but it opened the way for a growing demand that Congress
                    finance these improvements. Congress partially complied with the demand by directing Secretary of
                    the Treasury Albert Gallatin to draw up plans for a comprehensive system of improvements.19 The system proposed in the Gallatin Report in 1808 became the grand objective
                    of those who advocated federal improvements.
        The National Road, the first large scale federal transportation project, was completed as far west as 
            Wheeling
           in 1818. President 
            Monroe
           signed two appropriation bills for its extension and improvement, but vetoed the
                    appropriation bill of 1822. In 1820 the states in the Northwest influenced Congress to extend the
                    National Road to the 
            Mississippi
          .20 In 1821, when the site for Indiana's new capital was
                    selected, the Assembly petitioned Congress to have the National Road pass through the new location
                        ;21 and in 1827 the road was permanently located through 
            Indianapolis
           and as far west as the 
            Illinois
           state line.22
        
        
          
            17 Esarey, "Internal Improvements in Indiana," Indiana
                        Historical Society Publications, V, 50.
          
            18
            Compendium of the Seventh Census, 40.
          
            19
            Annals of Congress, 9 Cong., 2 Sess., 97.
          
            20
            
              
                United States
               Statutes at Large, III, 604.
          
            21
            Lows of the State of Indiana, 1820–1821, ch. LXXV.
          
            22
            Journal of the Senate of Indiana, 1827–1828, p. 24.
        
        
        In 1826, the year of the origin of the 
            Michigan
           Road, Indiana was in the early stages of the improvement mania. The completion of the 
            Erie
           Canal in 1825, which definitely bound a large part of the Northwest closer to the East
                    and away from the 
            Mississippi
          , led 
            Ohio
           to plan an extensive program of improvements. Governor James B. Ray and other leading
                    Indianans received much of their immediate inspiration from 
            Ohio
          's example. The fact that the National Road was to pass through 
            Indianapolis
           increased the desire for a good north-south route to the capital. The 
            Wabash
           and 
            Erie
           Canal land grant was accepted by the state in 1828. The completion of this project
                    would open an extensive, rich, new area, which would need and desire connection with the older
                    sections of the state and with the capital. 
            Indianapolis
           was destined to become the crossroads of Indiana long before territorial expansion and
                    geographical position gave this city a claim to the title of "The Crossroads of
                    America."
        The first mention of the idea of a road connecting Lake Michigan and the 
            Ohio
           was in a speech by William Hendricks in 1818, while he was a member of the Committee on
                    Public Lands in Congress. Hendricks, who was the immediate predecessor of Ray as chief executive of
                    the state, presented a resolution asking the 
            United States
           to subscribe to shares in the proposed 
            Ohio
           Falls Canal; and in urging his proposal he mentioned the need of a military road from
                    the Falls of the 
            Ohio
           to the southern end of Lake Michigan.23
                    However, no further mention of such a road was found in his messages or papers.
        The construction of a road by means of a land grant from the federal government was not
                    unprecedented. In 1808, 
            Ohio
           was granted by an Indian treaty a right of way for a road from the western end of the
                    Western Reserve to Perrysburg on the Maumee; and in 1823, Congress granted to 
            Ohio

           "considerable territory" on each side of this road to provide for its
                        completion.24 On February 9, 1827, Hendricks, speaking in the 
            United States
           Senate for support of the 
            Wabash
           and 
            Erie
           land grant, mentioned the fact that 
            Ohio
           had received for the 
            Brownstown
           road a similar grant of one 
            
              23
              Annals of Congress, 15 Cong., 1 Sess., 1114.
            
              24 Emilius O. Randall and Daniel J. Ryan, History of 
                  Ohio
                
               (5 vols., 
                New York
              , 1912), III, 337.
          
           mile on each side of the highway, which produced sufficient
                    revenue to make a durable road and left $30,000 for repairs.23
        

        In the early days of Indiana a candidate for office hardly dared announce himself unless he favored
                    internal improvements. The subject was agitated as early as 1818, during the administration of
                    Governor Jennings. He, as well as every chief executive of the state down to 1843, when the system
                    collapsed, made it a special point in his messages to the legislature to urge the adoption of
                    measures for the construction of highways and canals and the improvement of navigable rivers.
                    Jennings, in his message to the legislature in December, 1818, urged the consideration of a system
                    of canals and roads to facilitate commerce, enhance the value of the soil, and remove local
                        jealousies.26 Roads and canals did remove some prejudices, but while the
                    routes were being chosen local jealousies were usually at high pitch.
        William Hendricks, successor to Jennings as governor, specified to the Assembly in 1822 as most
                    important the improving of the Falls of the 
            Ohio
          , the 
            Wabash

           and White rivers and other streams, and "the construction
                    of the national and other roads through the state."27
        
        James 
            Brown
           Ray, Governor of Indiana from 1825 to 1831, in his first annual message, December,
                    1825, called attention to the great need of a market for Indiana's surplus produce if she
                    wished to realize the advantages of her resources. While we have evidence that Governor Ray did not
                    originate the idea of a road connecting Lake Michigan with the 
            Ohio
          , he undoubtedly deserves most of the credit for the road grant. He served as one of the
                    three commissioners in making the Indian treaty in 1826; and due to a charge of misconduct in so
                    doing, he secured letters from the other two commissioners which bear out the fact that he deserved
                    and desired to have credit for securing the grant. He made the project one of his chief hobbies for
                    a time, and he might well be called the father of the 
            Michigan
           Road.
        In a sense the 
            Michigan
           Road stands as a monument to 
            
              25 Logan Esarey (ed.), Messages and Papers of Jonathan
                                Jennings, Ratliff Boon, and William Hendricks, Indiana Historical Collections (
                Indianapolis
              , 1924), XII, 350.
            
              26
              Journal of the House of Representatives of Indiana, 1818–1819,
                            p. 21.
            
              27 Esarey, Messages and Papers of Jennings, Boon, and
                                Hendricks, 454.
          
           the white man's shrewdness in his dealings with the red
                    man. In 1826 the Potawatomi still claimed a large part of northern Indiana; the first step in
                    building a road to give central and northern Indiana an outlet to Lake Michigan
                    was to induce the Indians to cede more lands.

        One of the chief instructions from the national government to the territorial governors was to lose
                    no opportunity to acquire Indian lands by purchase.28 As the power to make
                    treaties belonged to the President and the Senate, after statehood was achieved the states which
                    contained Indian land sought to have the national government secure the cession of these lands.
                    Large areas of Indian land or untaxable public domain made it almost impossible for these states to
                    finance road or canal projects for themselves, and they sought federal aid through land grants.
                    Sectional jealousies became strong. The demand of western states for federal aid for roads and
                    canals counterbalanced the clamor of the Atlantic seaboard states for harbors and ships.29
        
        The two great enterprises which Indiana financed in this period by land grants were the 
            Wabash
           and 
            Erie
           Canal and the 
            Michigan

           Road. These two grants gave the state title to lands estimated at the time to be worth
                        $1,250,000.30
        
        As soon as Governor Ray took office, he sought the assistance of the state and nation in opening a
                    road through the northern part of Indiana. James Noble, 
            United States

           Senator from Indiana and member of the Committee on Roads and Canals, asked for an
                    appropriation of $50,000 for "opening and making the road."31 Through his efforts, on May 20, 1826, an act was approved appropriating
                    $15,000 to defray the expenses of making treaties with the Miami and Potawatomi Indians
                    "and any other tribes claiming lands in the state of Indiana."32
        
        Three commissioners were appointed by President John 
            Quincy
           Adams to make the treaty. Governor Ray, no doubt at his own request, was made one of
                    the commission; the other two members, Lewis Cass and John 
            Tipton
          , were 
            
              28 Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 146.
            
              29
              
                Benton
              , "The 
                Wabash
               Trade Route," Johns Hopkins University Studies, XXI,
                            nos. 1–2, p. 37.
            
              30
              Journal of the House of Representatives of Indiana, 1827–1828,
                            p. 17.
            
              31
              Debates of Congress, 19 Cong., 1 Sess., 689.
            
              32
              
                
                  United States
                 Statutes at Large, IV, 185.
          
           veteran Indian negotiators. Governor Ray and General 
            Tipton
           traveled through the Indian country to select the site and invite the Indians to the
                    council.

        The simple bribery and high pressure salesmanship practiced by the white man's treaty
                    experts in persuading the Indians to sign treaties giving away, bit by bit, lands that had probably
                    been promised in previous treaties never to be disturbed is obviously and typically illustrated in
                    this council of 1826. The council opened on October 5, with General Cass as spokesman for the
                    commissioners. He explained the proposal to buy more land from the Indians and told them to take all
                    the time they wanted to consider the proposition. The younger Potawatomi chiefs were strongly
                    opposed to ceding any more land, but sixty-two of the chiefs and warriors were finally induced on
                    October 16 to sign the treaty. The Miamis, who were also invited to the council, were more
                    determined not to sell their land and could not be persuaded to sign the treaty.33 No speech by General 
            Tipton
           was recorded in the treaty journal; Governor Ray spoke only a few times and very
                    briefly, once to say, "We wish to make a road from 
            Indianapolis

          , our great village, to Lake Michigan." This was the only
                    mention in the journal of the road grant.34
        
        By Article One of this treaty the Indians ceded a strip of land which averaged about ten miles in
                    width, lying on the north side of the 
            Wabash
           and Maumee rivers and extending eastward from the 
            Tippecanoe
           to the 
            Ohio
           state line. Also they ceded a ten-mile strip along the northern boundary of Indiana,
                    between Lake Michigan and the St. Joseph River, in order
                    to allow suitable harbor facilities at the terminus of the proposed road.
        It was Article Two, however, which provided for the 
            Michigan

           Road. Here the hand of the beneficiary was apparent. This section read as follows:
                        

            As evidence of the attachment which the Pottawatomie tribe feel toward the American people,
                            and particularly to the soil of Indiana, 
                
                  33 On October 23, 1826, a week after the Potawatomi Treaty was
                                    concluded, a treaty was made at the same place with the Miamis, who ceded all their
                                    lands north of the 
                    Wabash
                   and Maumee rivers. They claimed some of the same
                                    lands ceded by the Potawatomi.
                
                  34 Treaty Journal, Records of the proceedings of the
                                    commissioners appointed to treat with the Indians in Indiana in 1826, from the
                                    National Archives, 
                    Washington, D. C.
                  , Records of the Department of Interior, Indiana Affairs. Photostatic
                                    copy on file in the Historical Bureau, State Library, 
                    Indianapolis
                  .
              
               and with a view to demonstrate their liberality, and
                            benefit themselves for traveling and increasing the value of their remaining country, the
                            said tribe do hereby cede to the 
                United States
               a strip of land, commencing at Lake Michigan, and running
                            thence to the Wabash River, one hundred feet wide, for a road; and,
                            also one section of good land contiguous to the said road, for each mile of the same, and
                            also for each mile of a road from the termination thereof, through 
                Indianapolis
              , to the Ohio River, for the purpose of making the road
                            aforesaid from Lake Michigan, by way of 
                Indianapolis
              , to some convenient point on the Ohio River. And the
                            General Assembly of the State of Indiana shall have the right to locate the said road, and
                            to apply the said sections, or the proceeds thereof, to the making of the same, or any part
                            thereof; and the said grant shall be at their sole disposal.
          
        
        The 
            United States
          , in return for the cessions made, agreed, in Article Three, to pay each year to the
                    Potawatomi tribe $2,000; 160 bushels of salt; and, as long as Congress saw fit,
                    $2,000 for education. This article also stated that a blacksmith and a mill were to be
                    provided for the Indians at some convenient point.
        With the treaty concluded, Governor Ray wished to speed further action on his project. His message to
                    the Assembly in December, 1826, two months later, showed him in good form on his favorite subject,
                    devoting more space to the need of internal improvements than to any other public problem and
                    painting a rosy future for the state, now that the 
            Wabash
           Canal and 
            Michigan
           Road projects were ready to be launched.
        One of his statements was an excellent index to the enthusiasm of the man. "Nine-tenths of
                    Indiana soil could be cultivated and would support ten million people. Therefore," he
                    continued, "we must rely on roads as the safest and most certain state policy, to relieve
                    our situation, and place us among the first in the Union." Roads were less expensive than
                    canals, he contended.
        Turning to the Miami and Potawatomi treaties, he reported that, "with the view of
                    extinguishing their title to lands," these treaties had resulted in the cession to the 
            United States

           of between two and three million acres of land within the limits of Indiana. Having
                    explored a large part of this territory in person, the governor testified to its great value: 

            No new country can produce greater inducements to the emigrant— with its rich
                            soil, permanent streams for manufactories, living springs, extensive quarries of limestone,
                            thick and durable timber, healthful  appearance, and good
                            natural position for commerce, it may be esteemed as the first new country in value, now in
                            market in the government. In it an industrious and economical people may grow rich and
                            happy.
          
        
        He characterized the road provision as the "grand project" and as an important and
                    interesting national and state object. He cited the military value of the road, pointing out that 
            Michigan
           was the only lake belonging exclusively to the 
            United States
           and that it could support a navy. If we should ever have to meet "our old
                    enemy" again, we should expect to meet her in the north; and this would make the road
                    important from a national point of view.
        Secondly, Ray mentioned how valuable the road would prove to emigrants from many of the states in
                    going to homes in the rich new territory which was "the principal object of the
                    treaty." "Such a road," he said, "will point to the heart of 
            Kentucky
          , and she ought to be alive to its success."
        These considerations, plus the incalculable advantages of the road to the people of Indiana, the
                    character it would lend the state, the choice of markets it would create, the money its construction
                    would scatter among the laborers, the inducement it would provide to settle the wild lands of the 
            United States
          , the fact that it would cross the National Road at right angles at the seat of
                    government, the assistance it would give to the farmer and merchant in transporting heavy articles
                    to and from the lake or the 
            Ohio
           at pleasure, and the general figure it would make upon the map of the state all
                    combined to demonstrate the expediency of the measure, Ray enumerated. He requested that the
                    legislature send a memorial to 
            Washington
           to encourage the ratification of the treaty.

        It is of special interest to note this statement at the conclusion of Governor Ray's eulogy
                    of this project: "The grant severs the remaining Indian possessions; and when the land
                    granted for this purpose is settled, it will weaken the attachment of the Pottowattamie to his
                        country."35 The attachment of the Potawatomi to his country was
                    weakened sufficiently by 1838, and the tribe was marched out of Indiana into the Indian country west
                    of the 
            Mississippi
           during the late summer of that year. So many of the Indians died along the trail 
            
              35
              Journal of the House of Representatives of Indiana, 1826–1827,
                            pp. 51–52.
          
           that the route they followed has been called the "Trail
                    of Death."36
        
        On February 7, 1827, the 
            United States
           Senate ratified the Potawatomi Treaty.37 The Senate, however,
                    struck out of Article Two the clause giving to the state sole right of disposal of the grant, on the
                    ground that the grant of treaty-making power to the commissioners did not confer the right to
                    dispose of public lands. This was a power of Congress. But this authority was given to the state by
                    the act of March 2, approved by President John 
            Quincy
           Adams, confirming the treaty grant. The act authorized the state legislature to locate
                    and build the road from Lake Michigan by way of 
            Indianapolis

           to some convenient point on the Ohio River, agreeable to the
                    second article of the treaty; and the General Assembly was authorized to apply the said strip and
                    sections of land to the making of the road; and the grant was to be at their sole disposal.38 With the land grant thus approved by Congress, the 1827–1828
                    session of the legislature could proceed with plans for the road.
        At the same time that Congress approved the road grant, it also approved the 
            Wabash
           and 
            Erie
           land grant.39 Within the space of fifteen months public lands
                    estimated by the governor to be worth $1,250,000 had been acquired by the state. Said
                    Governor Ray: 
            It is believed that the most sanguine politician, will be unable to point to any combination
                            of circumstances, which will again place under the control of the state… such
                            extensive and valuable resources, for prosecuting a grand system of internal
                            improvement… and for the ultimate production of a revenue that shall relieve our
                            fellow citizens from taxation.
          
        

        He recommended to the legislature that the improvements be financed by a loan and that the land be
                    sold afterward for cash, so that the improvements would make the land bring a much greater price.
                    "No pledges… will make the land… sell like the finished thoroughfare
                    itself," he said. A board of commissioners was suggested to select the ceded land as soon
                    as it should be surveyed. Contracts on the road, he thought, should be limited to one year. He also
                    recommended to all friends of internal improvements the 
            
              36 Jacob P. Dunn,True Indian Stories (
                Indianapolis
              , 1909), 234. See also Irving McKee, The Trail of Death,
                            Indiana Historical Society Publications, XIV, no. 1 (
                Indianapolis
              , 1941).
            
              37
              
                
                  United States
                 Statutes at Large, VII (Indian Treaties), 295–96.
            
              38
              Ibid., IV, 234–35.
            
              39
              Ibid., IV, 236.
          
           study of Stricklands' Reports,
                    ordered by the legislature of 182640
        

        But now the controversies began; born in controversy, the road has lived in that atmosphere. Probably
                    the first strife connected with the project was the affair of personal politics between Ray and some
                    of his opponents over his alleged violation of the constitution by serving as a member of the treaty
                    commission. Then came a dispute with the secretary of war, for which the Assembly blamed Ray. The
                    legislature itself squared away for a two-year battle over the location of the southern terminus, in
                    addition to minor disputes concerning the appointment of commissioners and contract letting. The
                    General Land Office was in disagreement for a time concerning the selection of the lands. After the
                    road was built, probably the most famous tribulation concerning it was the case of the Western Union
                    Telegraph Company v. Krueger, a right of way dispute which affords an excellent
                    discussion of the road.41 In recent years the state has had to resort to the
                    courts to repossess its 100-foot right of way.

        During the 1827–1828 session of the General Assembly, the House of Representatives passed
                    a resolution of censure which charged Ray with violating the constitution in serving as an Indian
                    commissioner while governor and asked him to forfeit his office. He was asked to appear and explain
                    his conduct, but he refused. Instead, he followed the example of Governor Jennings, who had been
                    censured for a similar action, and wrote a letter to the Assembly. A resolution against Governor Ray
                    lost by a vote of twenty-seven to thirty-one.42
        

        Samuel Merrill wrote a twenty-four page pamphlet in the controversy about Ray's
                    participation in the commission. This in part read: 
            The truth is… that the Treaty was once nearly broken off by his
                            imprudence…. It required all the knowledge of Indian character…
                            possessed by Gov. Cass and Gen. 
                Tipton
               to prevent the indiscretion of the other Commissioner from being fatal to the
                            Treaty.
          
        
        
          
            40
            Journal of the House of Representatives of Indiana, 1827–1828, pp.
                        17–24.
          
            41 Western Union v. Krueger, 36 Appellate
                            Court Reports (1905), 348–72. Charles Moore, 
              Indianapolis
             attorney, wrote the historical part of this report. Judge Black, of 
              Bloomington
            , gave the decision.
          
            42
            
              Indianapolis
            
            Indiana Journal, January 20, 1827.
        
        
        Governor Ray was accused of accepting from the 
            United States

           pay at the rate of eight dollars per day for double the time he actually served, while
                    at the same time he received his salary as governor.43 He was also charged with
                    entering at an exorbitant price on the expense list his horse, which he had given to an Indian at
                    the treaty grounds.
        In his defense, Ray asked Cass and 
            Tipton

           to write letters concerning his conduct. Three years later, in 1830, he submitted these
                    letters to the Assembly to show that the commissioners did not consider the road grant a separate
                    cession in the treaty.44
        
        The 
            Tipton
           letter indicates that Governor Ray's desire to secure a land cession for a
                    road and canal was very ambitious and did somewhat endanger the conclusion of the treaty. The treaty
                    journal reveals that Ray did not participate very actively in the actual council with the Indians;
                    but the journal does not record the proceedings within the commission, as these letters indicate.
                    His insistence on the road grant, both letters agree, prolonged the council. It is obvious that Ray
                    had asked the two to certify that he was chiefly responsible for securing the road grant.
        But the land grant was now at the disposal of the legislature for the construction of a road the full
                    length of the state, a project of a magnitude few people had as yet thought possible; and the
                    quarrel with Governor Ray was dropped as quickly as it had begun. Matters of far greater importance,
                    the location of the road and the choosing of the lands, faced the legislature; and it lost no time
                    in turning to these problems in the 1827–1828 session. It was to act upon two important
                    internal improvement projects—the 
            Michigan
           Road and the 
            Wabash
           and 
            Erie
           Canal.
        The road was made first business, and there began a two-year contention over the location of the
                    southern terminus. The phrase "to some convenient point on the Ohio
                    River," used in the Indian treaty, was handed down through the act of Congress
                    confirming the grant and incorporated in the bill in the state legislature. On the settlement of
                    this "point" developed one of the bitterest and longest controversies ever waged
                    in the state Assembly.
        The House resolved itself into a committee of the whole 
            
              43 Dunn, Indiana and Indianans, I,
                            380–81.
            
              44
              Journal of the Senate of Indiana, 1830–1831, pp.
                            42–45.
          
           on December 20, 1827, to locate the road. Several minor
                    amendments were concurred in and motions were begun for the location of the point. Two weeks later
                    warm and animated debates were being held in the whole Assembly and in committee. Flowery speeches
                    were in order, relative to the merits of the respective rival points. One made by James G. Reed, of 
            Daviess
           and Martin counties, in favor of Mount Vernon will serve to demonstrate their nature.
                    Speaking of 
            Princeton
          , one of the towns on the proposed Mount Vernon route, he said: 
            Here already is located a seminary of learning, on an eminence that overlooks the whole town.
                            And if we indulge in a prospective view from the encouragement of the enterprising citizens
                            and their taste for literature, we behold seminaries and colleges rearing their majestic
                            cupolas and steeples until lost in the clouds…. and when you arrive at Mount
                            Vernon, here, sir, is a place destined by nature for a commercial town. Situated a few miles
                            above the mouth of the 
                Wabash
              , it must ere long become the general depot for all the western country. It
                            affords, Mr. Chairman, an elegant, safe, and superb harbor for vessels of every size and
                            description. Sir, I must stop, for if I were to attempt to describe the many benefits and
                            advantages that present themselves to this road, at and beyond this great point, I should
                            most positively fail—pen nor pencil could do justice to this subject.
          
        
        And Reed also pointed out that on this route the state would acquire about fifty more sections of
                    land than by any other route "except by 
            Evansville
           which has already been voted out."45
        
        After the indirect route had been determined for the 
            Wabash
           to Lake Michigan section, the discretion of the legislators,
                    perhaps, induced them to favor a shorter route for the 
            Indianapolis
           to the Ohio River section. The suggestion of the secretary of war
                    that the Potawatomi were to be consulted about the location of the terminus, as they would have to
                    agree to the amount of land to be given, may also have influenced the choice of the shorter route.
        The voting continued. Mauckport, Mount Vernon, 
            Aurora
          , Falls of the 
            Ohio
          , Mouth of Blue River, and 
            Leavenworth
           were all proposed and rejected. The story was much the same in the Senate. Samuel
                    Judah, of 
            Knox County

          , informed his constituents through their paper that the Senate could not determine upon
                    any particular point and he 
            
              45
              
                Indianapolis
              
              Indiana Journal, January 3, 1828.
          
           was inclined to think that "a majority of that body
                    prefer not to pass any law to making any point which is possible—I yet consider
                    Levenworth and 
            Madison
           the strongest points."46 The Senate temporarily gave up
                    the contest over the southern point and passed and sent to the House a bill to locate the road from
                        Lake Michigan to 
            Indianapolis
          .47
        
        New committees were appointed as old ones resigned in despair. The bill to locate the point was
                    recommitted and laid on the table for what may have been a record number of times. At the end of the
                    session it was indefinitely postponed; but in spite of the stalemate of the location of the southern
                    terminus, not all the action toward the project was lost. On January 24 a bill was approved
                    providing for the appointment of commissioners to survey a route from 
            Indianapolis
           to Lake Michigan.48
        
        Haste was considered necessary in surveying the northern route, in order to allow the selection of
                    lands to be begun before the federal government sold too many of the best lands in the grants
                    already secured from the Indians and in later concessions. Dispute was lessened because there were
                    no settlements north of 
            Indianapolis
           or on the lake in Indiana. Early in 1830 an amendment was proposed and defeated to
                    reroute the road through 
            Noblesville
           ;49 this was the only evidence found of an attempt to change the
                    commissioners' recommendations for the northern route.
        The law of January 24, 1828, named as commissioners John McDonald, of 
            Daviess County
          , 
            Chester
           Elliott, of 
            Warrick
          , and John I. Neely, of Gibson. Starting at Lake Michigan they were
                    to examine bays, inlets, and estuaries of rivers, in order to establish the best harbor possible on
                    the shore of the lake; they were to make an accurate survey of the most eligible route to 
            Indianapolis
           and file a plat of their survey in the office of the secretary of state, who was to lay
                    the same before the General Assembly at its next session. They were authorized to employ any
                    necessary assistants.
        Governor Ray called a meeting of the commissioners 
            
              46
              
                Vincennes
              , Indiana, Western Sun, January 12, 1828.
            
              47
              Journal of the House of Representatives of Indiana, 1827–1828,
                            p. 337.
            
              48
              Laws of the State of Indiana, 1827–1828, ch. LXX.
            
              49
              Journal of the House of Representatives of Indiana, 1829–1830,
                            pp. 275–76.
          
           in 
            Indianapolis

           on the first Monday in April, 1828. Due to the high waters at this season they
                    adjourned until the second Monday in May,50 on which date they met again in 
            Indianapolis
           and ran a random line from the court house to Lake Michigan,
                    leaving the Miami reservation on the east. John K. Graham, of 
            Floyd County
          , whom they hired as surveyor, became ill when they reached the 
            Wabash
          ; and they employed John G. McDonald to continue the work. By July they had completed
                    the first survey directly from the 
            Wabash
           across the Kankakee swamps to the lake.51 They reported great
                    exposure and fatigue in working through the long wilderness, a distance they found to total 140
                    miles. The season was wet, and the prairies were almost impassable for horses. The men often had to
                    wade from knee-to waist-deep and lead their horses, then lie down wet at night in low, unwholesome
                    ground.
        Not finding a natural harbor on Lake Michigan, the commissioners temporarily
                    located a point at the mouth of Trail Creek as the most eligible. The creek was five miles west of
                    the 
            Michigan
           territory line and was about eighty feet wide at the mouth and from seven to ten feet
                    deep for the first half mile. The land at this point, one-half mile from the mouth, was of second
                    quality but suitable for a town location. 
            Michigan
           City was located here in 1832.52
        
        From the mouth of Trail Creek they ran a line to 
            Indianapolis
          , to the west of the Miami reservation. The tendency of early Indiana roads to follow
                    Indian trails was true of this survey, as it followed closely the old Indian trail from the lake to
                    the 
            Wabash
          .53 They gave a detailed report of the land along the route. That
                    from the lake to the vicinity of the 
            Wabash

           was described as mostly poor, with a few good but small areas. North of the Kankakee
                    for eighteen miles the country was barren and destitute of any materials for road construction and
                    was not suitable for settlement. The Kankakee was crossed at the western end of English Lake and was
                    about 748 yards wide, with a deep and sluggish current. Their horses stuck several times a day in
                    the swampy prairies 
            
              50 Reports of Road Commissioners, ibid.,
                                1828–1829, pp. 89–95; 
                Madison
              
              Indiana Republican, January 14, 1829.
            
              51
              
                Indianapolis
              
              Indiana Journal, July 10, 1828.
            
              52 Joseph Packard, History of 
                  Laporte County
                
               (Laporte, 1876), 83.
            
              53 Rollo B. Oglesbee and Albert Hale, History of 
                  Michigan
                 City (Laporte, 1908), 70.
          
           and marshes between the Kankakee and the 
            Wabash
          . This route struck the 
            Wabash
           seventy-three miles from the lake and approximately twelve miles west of the mouth of
                        Eel River. The remainder of the land along the route to 
            Indianapolis
           was well-timbered and rich.54
        

        During the excursion the commissioners cultivated the friendship of the Potawatomi, shown by the fact
                    that one of the chiefs presented Neely with his seven-year-old son, whom Neely planned to give all
                    the benefits of education and society.55
        
        The commissioners, convinced of the impracticability of this direct route across the swamps and
                    through the poor land, determined on a further examination; but due to the extreme fatigue of the
                    party they postponed the further survey until October. They began the October survey on the upper 
            Wabash
          , marking a route from the mouth of Eel River almost directly north
                    to the south bend of the 
            St. Joseph
          , thence westward to the mouth of Trail Creek. At the southern bend of the 
            St. Joseph

          , they reported in their notes, was a beautiful site for a town. This point was
                    fifty-five miles from the lake by the river and thirty-five by the road. A furtrading post had been
                    located here since 1823.56 Three years later, March 28, 1831, a town was laid
                    out here, later named 
            South Bend
          .
        The commissioners found it necessary to procure a pilot and interpreter on this
                    expedition—Edward McCartney, of 
            Carroll County

          , who helped to satisfy the Indians with the location of the road. This indirect route
                    was 102 miles in length, or about thirty miles longer than the direct survey across the Kankakee
                    region. The land along the route was generally good. It was the opinion of the commission that, if
                    the lands were speedily and judiciously chosen, one-half the proceeds would open the road and put it
                    in condition. They reported total expenditures for themselves, their help, and their pack horses as
                    $1,889.64. They employed twelve "hands," from four to a hundred days
                    each. Hands were paid seventy-five cents per day and the commissioners two 
            
              54 Reports of Road Commissioners, Journal of the House of
                                Representatives of Indiana, 1828–1829, pp. 89–95.
            
              55
              
                Indianapolis
              
              Indiana Journal, July 10, 1828.
            
              56
              
                Madison
              
              Indiana Republican, January 7, 1829. Also Timothy E. Howard, History of 
                  St. Joseph County
                
               (2 vols., 
                Chicago
              , 1907), I, 132.
          
           dollars per day.57 They had to defray their
                    own expenses as the legislature had made no appropriation.

        The commissioners turned in their reports and plats of both surveys and left it to the legislature to
                    make the final choice between the two routes.58 This furnished one more
                    controversy for the Assembly.
        On February 24, 1828, a few days after the first act was passed, Governor Ray corresponded with
                    Secretary of War James Barbour, to find how the land was to be surveyed and how the state was to
                    take possession. The secretary informed Ray that the land should be taken possession of by surveys.
                    He assumed that lands granted by the treaty were to be laid off along the line of the road, where
                    the.land was of good quality, but not necessarily where such sections were poor. Selections of land
                    made under this assumption, however, were later rejected by the General Land Office, which insisted
                    that lands chosen for the part of the road within the Indian country lie contiguous to the center
                    line of the road. Barbour also stated that no part of the cost of the survey would be borne by the
                    federal government. The Indian agent was to attend the surveys, and it was suggested that two or
                    three Potawatomi chiefs should attend and give consent to the point where the road was to strike the 
            Ohio
           and to the location of the sections of land.
        Governor Ray conveyed this information to the Assembly in his annual message, December, 1828, by
                    which time the survey from the lake to 
            Indianapolis
           had been completed.59 After reporting the results of his
                    correspondence with the secretary of war, Ray appealed to the legislators to show a spirit of
                    compromise, to put an end to their contention, which appeared to be intermingling itself with both
                    the politics and the legislation of the state, and not further to suspend progress on the road. But
                    his appeal to end the contention over the convenient point was futile; the bill was mired down for
                    the whole session and a full year was practically lost.
        The Assembly, after first accepting the 
            Wabash
           and 
            Erie
           Canal report, on December 22 began again to contend for different points on the 
            Ohio
          . 
            Madison
          , the Falls of the 
            Ohio
          , 
            
              57 Reports of Road Commissioners, Journal of the House of
                                Representatives of Indiana, 1828–1829, pp. 89–95.
            
              58 A photostatic copy of the original plat of the second survey is in
                            the Indiana history room of the State Library.
            
              59
              Journal of the Senate of Indiana, 1828–1829, p. 13.
          
          
          
            Jeffersonville, Lawrenceburg
          , Mauckport, and New 
            Albany
           were the chief competing cities. At times they agreed on a terminus, but the way points
                    blocked passage of the bill. Other times, after one house passed the bill the other made amendments
                    which led to its downfall between the houses. Finally, "the vote for 
            Madison

           stood ten for, and eleven against; it was the strongest point tried; the bill was
                    finally amended, appointing three commissioners with power to locate the road" at any point
                    they thought proper. Its fate, however, was yet uncertain.60
        
        The 
            Madison
          
          Republican, the following week, reported that the 
            Michigan
           Road bill had not passed and that another Senate bill establishing the road to 
            Madison
           via 
            Shelbyville
           and 
            Greensburg
           had been amended twice in the House—
            Columbus
           had been substituted for 
            Greensburg
          ; and the Falls via 
            Salem
          , for 
            Madison

          . The Senate concurred in the first amendment, disagreed on the second, and sent it back
                    to the House. A joint committee could not agree. The Republican concluded: 

            We are heartily tired of this business and think it high time the Legislature should agree
                            upon some point…. Our claims to this road are as "strong as the
                            Andees," [sic] & we believe must ultimately prevail. The
                            opinion of the editor of the "Statesman" (printed at 
                Charlestown
              ) to the contrary notwithstanding.61
            
           Late in January, after a dozen proposals and amendments had been unsuccessfully voted on,
                    the question was raised and voted on by the committee as to whether this bill should pass. This was
                    affirmed forty-eight to ten.
        
          
            Madison
           was the largest business point on the river in 1829; but each representative adhered to
                    the point most favorable to his constituents, claiming it to do the most business between the mouths
                    of the Miami and the 
            Wabash
          .
        The only act passed with reference to the road was an appropriation to pay the commissioners for the
                        Lake Michigan to 
            Indianapolis
           survey,62 and the legislature adjourned on January 24 with the 
            Michigan
           Road bill a subject of disagreement between the two houses.63 Thus,
                    with nothing accomplished in the legislature, no work could be started on 
            
              60
              
                Madison
              
              Indiana Republican, January 7, 1829.
            
              61
              Ibid., January 14, 1829.
            
              62
              Laws of the State of Indiana, 1828–1829, ch. III.
            
              63
              
                Madison
              
              Indiana Republican, January 14, 1829.
          
           the road during 1829, although emigrants still continued to move
                    into the 
            Wabash
           country on the prospect of the road and the canal construction.

        Between sessions, public sentiment against the delay increased. The people felt that the legislature
                    was wasting-time and that the land sales should be authorized or a loan made to start
                        construction.64 The county commissioners in some counties were accused of
                    neglecting their roads in the expectation that the 
            Michigan
           Road would pass their way.65
        

        When the Assembly convened in December, 1829, the public and the members felt that undoubtedly the
                    question would be settled. The Western Sun stated that "We believe this
                    matter will be settled this session. Where it will terminate is uncertain, but that it will be fixed
                        somewhere is very generally believed."66
        
        In his message to the Assembly, Governor Ray stated that Congress had appropriated $60,000
                    for building twenty-eight miles of the National Road (sixteen miles east and twelve miles west of 
            Indianapolis
          ) in Indiana in 1830. Speaking of the 
            Michigan
           and 
            Ohio
           turnpike, Ray called upon the Assembly to adjust their differences over this question,
                    which had already been the cause of "much artificial, fallacious and embittered controversy
                    and excitement." He hoped for a quick and judicious location of the whole route.
        After reviewing the reports of the commissioners on the two routes surveyed between 
            Indianapolis
           and Lake Michigan, he expressed the opinion that the longer route
                    via the southern bend of the 
            St. Joseph
           was unjustified and that the extra length of thirty miles would cause the road to lose
                    much of its utility. The marshy lands, he thought, would make a better graded turnpike than rich
                    soil; and the 
            St. Joseph
           could not be relied upon for navigation. To end the political and legislative tangle on
                    the choice of the southern point, he suggested authorizing the Executive to appoint commissioners
                    for that duty.

        On the question of the disposition of the lands, he recommended that either the lands be used as a
                    direct payment to contractors or that a loan be made on the land. He further proposed the practical
                    plan of dividing the road into three 
            
              64
              Ibid., August 5, 1829.
            
              65
              Ibid., November 4, 1829.
            
              66
              
                Vincennes
              , Indiana, Western Sun, December 26, 1829.
          
           sections, one to be built each year: the first, from 
            Madison
           to 
            Indianapolis
          ; the second, from 
            Indianapolis
           to the 
            Wabash

          ; and the third, from there to Lake Michigan. Thus the most needed
                    section could be completed first, the financial problem simplified, confidence inspired, and the
                    value of the remaining lands increased. Upon the supposition that the total distance would be 230
                    miles, he estimated the lands, at two dollars an acre, to be worth $300,000, or
                    $1,280 per mile, which should make a good clay turnpike with strong wooden bridges, since
                    the National Road had been costing only $220 per mile.67
        
        During half the session history repeated itself so far as the decision on the southern terminus was
                    concerned. As late as January 4, the House spent all afternoon voting on almost every point on the 
            Ohio
          . They sent the Senate a bill which made 
            Evansville
           (with a population of about 350) the terminus, but the Senate refused to agree.68 With a smaller membership, it naturally moved somewhat faster than the House.
                    On December 31, by a vote of twelve to eleven, it again passed and sent to the House a bill making 
            Madison
           the point. When the Senate refused to concur in the 
            Evansville
           bill from the House, the House moved by a thirty-two to twenty-nine vote to recede from
                    all amendments to the Senate bill and, on January 6, agreed to the 
            Madison-Greensburg
          
                        route.69 The bill was presented to the governor on January 11; and although
                    it did not carry out many of his suggestions, he approved it on January 13, 1830.70
        

        That all should be pleased by this agreement could not be expected, but the great majority were
                    gratified to learn that this distracting and prolonged question had been settled.71
          
            Madison
           accepted its long-awaited victory with justifiable pride. The Republican continued throughout January and February to quote other newspapers which agreed
                    that justice had been done. The opinion was expressed by the 
            Madison
           paper that it had never doubted where the road ought to originate and had favored 
            Columbus
           and 
            Vernon
           as intermediate points. No place on the 
            Ohio
           afforded so many 
            
              67
              Journal of the House of Representatives of Indiana, 1829–1830,
                            pp. 22–26.
            
              68
              
                Indianapolis
              
              Indiana Journal, January 9, 1830.
            
              69
              Ibid., January 6 and 9, 1830.
            
              70
              Laws of the State of Indiana,
                            1829–1830, ch. LXIX.
            
              71
              
                Indianapolis
              
              Indiana Journal, January 6, 1830.
          
           facilities for easy communication with the interior of the
                    state, and "at present this is the most convenient route for… emigrants from 
            Kentucky
           and other states." The population of 
            Madison

           was estimated at 1,500, and thirty buildings had been put up in the past year.
                    "This subject has consumed a great deal of the time of the Legislature for the two last
                    sessions…. That they could please all, could hardly have been expected;
                    but that a large majority… will be satisfied that they have… done the best
                    they could, we have no doubt."72
        
        
          
            Madison
          , though closely rivaled by New 
            Albany
          , was the largest town on the river and still much larger than 
            Indianapolis
          . Business expanded considerably. A new wharf, needed for many years, was constructed. 
            Madison
           served as the chief import center for Indiana; the newspaper regularly carried large
                    advertisements by retail and wholesale merchants, stating that large stocks of goods had been
                    received from 
            Philadelphia, Pittsburgh
          , and 
            New Orleans
          —goods to be sold at 
            Louisville
           and 
            Cincinnati

           prices. William Dutton advertised in March, 1830, that he had a $30,000
                    stock of goods on hand for country merchants.73 He had just received thirty
                    barrels of prime sugar from 
            New Orleans

          , twenty bags of coffee, ten barrels of molasses, and fifty boxes of smoked herring. He
                    also wanted to buy five hundred barrels of whiskey and twenty tons of bacon.74
        
        To appreciate the intense and long-drawn-out struggle over the determination of the southern terminus
                    of the 
            Michigan
           Road, it is necessary not only to recall the vital need of transportation to those
                    already settled in this part of the West but also to notice the large stream of emigration at the
                    time. As many as twenty to fifty wagons, containing families, most of whom were on their way to the 
            Wabash
           country, moved daily through 
            Indianapolis
          .75 An advertisement appeared in an 
            Indianapolis
           paper on May 1, 1828, of a lot sale in a new town laid off at the mouth of the
                        Eel River on the 
            Wabash
          . It was pointed out to emigrants that the location would be on the canal line and that
                    the 
            Michigan
           Road would in all probability cross the 
            Wabash
           there. The com- 
            
              72
              
                Madison
              
              Indiana Republican, January 20, 1830.
            
              73
              Ibid., March 18, 1830.
            
              74
              Ibid., April 1, 1830.
            
              75
              
                Indianapolis
              
              Indiana Journal, October 2, 1828; Journal of the House of
                                Representatives of Indiana, 1828–1829, p. 15.
          
           mercial, manufacturing, and agricultural advantages were said to
                    be unsurpassed by any in the state.76 Within six years 
            Logansport
           had "250 houses and a nice look."77 John 
            Tipton
           had moved the 
            Fort Wayne
           Indian agency to the mouth of the Eel River in 1826.78 Newspaper reports on the moving streams of people, land sales statistics, and
                    population figures all testify to this great movement.

        Indiana's population had doubled between 1820 and 1830, now being 343,031, and was to double
                    again in the next ten years. The number of counties increased from thirty-one in 1820 to sixty-three
                    in 1830, and to eighty-seven, or all but five of the present number, by 1840.79
                    Three of the newer counties, 
            Fountain, Montgomery
          , and 
            Tippecanoe
          , had in 1830 a greater population than the majority of the older counties and were as
                    large in population as 
            Marion County
          .80
        
        The act of January 13, 1830, authorized by the treaty of 1826 and the act of Congress of 1827, not
                    only located the southern terminus but also established the 
            Indianapolis
          -Lake Michigan section of the road according to the second survey.
                    It named commissioners and prescribed their duties in connection with the survey of the 
            Madison
          -to-
            Greensburg

           section and again directed the governor to find from the federal government when and
                    how the lands were to be surveyed.81
        
        There was some controversy over the adoption of the more indirect survey around the Kankakee ponds
                    via the 
            St. Joseph

          , contrary to Governor Ray's recommendation; but most first-hand observers of
                    the region confirmed the choice of the longer route as more practicable. One traveler stated that he
                    had read about and heard of these ponds but really had had no conception of them until he tried to
                    pass through them.82
        
        With the southern point located and the entire route established, it seemed at last that the work of
                    opening the road might be begun in the spring of 1830.
        
          
            76
            
              Indianapolis
            
            Indiana Journal, May 1, 1828.
          
            77 C. C. Kutschera, "Jacob Schramm Letters," Indiana
                        Historical Society Publications (
              Indianapolis
            , 1886-), XI (1937), 273.
          
            78 W. Swift Wright, Pastime Sketches (n. p., 1907), 41.
          
            79 Harold C. Feightner, "Indiana County Government," Indiana History Bulletin (
              Indianapolis
            , 1923-), IX (1932), 262–63.
          
            80
            Historical Atlas of Indiana (
              Chicago
            , 1876), 388.
          
            81
            Laws of the State of Indiana, 1829–1830, ch. LXIX.
          
            82
            
              Indianapolis
            
            Indiana Journal, November 3, 1830, from Miami Times,
                        September, 1830.
        
      
      
      
        Jesse Lynch Holman Pioneer Hoosier
        I. GEORGE BLAKE
        Veraestau, the homestead of the Holman family, is located near 
            Aurora
          , Indiana, on a high bluff overlooking the Ohio River. From this
                    place one may enjoy a magnificent view of the surrounding countryside. The site, which is today one
                    of the beauty spots of southern Indiana, was chosen by Jesse Lynch Holman in 1810, shortly before he
                    brought his young wife and child from the neighboring state of 
            Kentucky
          .
        Indiana Territory was virtually a wilderness at this time, with few settlements of any consequence.
                    Its population of about 25,000 was scattered along the 
            Ohio
          , 
            Wabash

          , and Whitewater rivers. Indians were to be found everywhere,
                    trading "their peltries, wild game and moccasins ornamented with the quills of the
                    porcupine" for such articles as "calicoes, whiskey, powder, lead, and
                        beads."1
        
        The pioneer conditions of Indiana appealed to young Holman, who, at the age of twenty-six, crossed
                    the Ohio River into the territory which he had chosen for his home. He had been
                    born near 
            Danville, Kentucky

          , on October 24, 1784, under the primitive conditions of a
                    frontier community, and was well adapted by background and training to the new land which lay before
                        him.2
        
        From some scraps of manuscripts which Jesse wrote in later life, it is learned that his
                    mother's maiden name was Jane Gordon and that her family came from 
            Scotland
          . He remembered that she sometimes corresponded with a brother John, who lived in 
            Maryland
          . He had heard her speak, too, of a younger sister Polly, who also came to 
            Kentucky
          .3
        
        
          
            1 Oliver H. Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches (
              Cincinnati
            , 1858), 5.
          
            2 Memorandum in longhand, giving also the dates of the birth and death of
                        various members of the Holman family. This material was loaned by Mrs. E. R. Rees, of 
              Aurora

            , Indiana, a granddaughter of Jesse Lynch Holman. There seems to be some
                        uncertainty, however, concerning the date of Jesse's birth. One authority gives the
                        date as October 22, 1783. See Damaris Knobe, The Ancestry of Grafton Johnson (
              Indianapolis
            , 1924), 98.
          
            3 Undated manuscript written by Jesse L. Holman. It was loaned by Miss
                        Margaret H. Wagenhals, of 
              New York
             City, and Miss Mildred H. Wagenhals, of Calistoga, 
              California
            , great-granddaughters of Jesse L. Holman. Their collection, afterwards referred to
                        as the Wagenhals
        
        
        Jesse's father was Henry Holeman, who had migrated during the colonial period from 
            Virginia
           to 
            North Carolina
          .4 In the year that the colonies declared their independence from 
            England
          , however, he moved to 
            Fayette County
          , 
            Kentucky
          .5 Eight children were born to Henry and his first wife, whose name
                    is unknown. Jesse was one of six children born to Henry and his second wife, Jane.6 Henry met a tragic death in 1789, being tomahawked by the Indians when he went in defense of
                    his wife and children, who were beleaguered in a nearby blockhouse.7
        

        Henry's death left his large family without adequate financial support, and it was extremely
                    difficult to provide them with the bare necessities. Mostly through his own persistent efforts,
                    however, young Jesse managed to obtain the equivalent of a common school education. In time, he
                    "became accomplished in the higher branches of mathematics and general
                        literature."8 He was a daily reader of the Bible throughout his
                    childhood. At the age of seventeen he joined the Baptist church.9 He was not
                    only one of the pioneer school teachers of his community, but it is said that he also began his long
                    preaching career when he was still a youth, 
            Collection, contains much correspondence, besides numerous other items, such as rough
                            drafts of speeches, official documents, and briefs of court cases in which Judge Holman was
                            interested.
            
              4 William O. Lynch, "Jesse Lynch Holman," Dictionary of American Biography, IX, 158. The date of Henry's
                            birth is unknown. Earlier members of the family spelled their name Holeman, and such spelling is still found among some of the descendants. Additional
                            information about family history was found in the Wagenhals Collection.
            
              5 Knobe, Ancestry of Grafton Johnson,
                            93–94, stated that he settled in that section of 
                Fayette County
              , 
                Kentucky
              , "which was separated in 1788 as Woodford county—though,
                            strictly, speaking, 
                Fayette
               county at that period was still a part of 
                Virginia
              , being one of the three original counties into which its ‘
                Kentucky
               county’ had been divided…. "
            
              6 In the material loaned by Mrs. Rees, there is a statement by Jesse
                            that his father had married three times, although there is no further proof of this.
            
              7
              History of 
                  Dearborn
                 and 
                  Ohio
                 Counties, Indiana (
                Chicago

              , 1885), 152. Henry's death occurred shortly before the probating of
                            his will at the September term of court in 1789. The document was witnessed by his son,
                            Edward, and his nephew, George. One of the executors of the will was Richard LaRue, his
                            son-in-law. Knobe, Ancestry of Grafton Johnson, 94.
            
              8"Jesse Lynch Holman," in A
                                Biographical History of Eminent and Self Made Men of the State of Indiana (2 vols., 
                Cincinnati
              , 1880), I, 34. The original of this sketch, written by William Steele Holman,
                            his son, was loaned by Mrs. R. H. Harvey, of 
                Washington, D. C.
              , a granddaughter of Jesse L. Holman.
            
              9 William Cathcart (ed.), The Baptist Encyclopedia (
                Philadelphia
              , 1883), 535.
          
           thus receiving valuable training and experience for his later
                    religious activities.10 Throughout his life his religious feelings
                    "were manifested with a boldness and consistency that proved that he was not ashamed of his
                    religion" and that "one of the ruling motives of his heart was the salvation of
                        souls."11
        

        Holman's literary talents were rather extensive. He was especially fond of poetry; and he
                    composed many short verses, which were published. Two lengthy poems, both legends of Indian life,
                    are still in existence.12 Before his twenty-first birthday, he wrote a
                    two-volume novel entitled, The Prisoners of Niagara, or The Errors of Education,
                    which had a large circulation for that period. Because of this piece of fiction, Holman has been
                    called Indiana's first novelist, although the work was written and published outside the
                    state of Indiana.13
        
        According to tradition, young Holman learned the fundamentals of law in the 
            Lexington
           offices of Henry 
            Clay
          .14 He was admitted to the 
            Kentucky
           bar on September 2, 1805, and practiced law at 
            New Castle
          , Port William, and later at 
            Frankfort,
                            Kentucky
          .15 While in
                    Port William, now Carrollton, he met Elizabeth Masterson, a talented girl a little younger than
                    himself and of sympathetic tastes which appealed 
            
              10 Louis B. Ewbank, "Federal Judges of Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXV (1939), 373–74.
            
              11 Horace Bassett, Jesse Lynch Holman, a manuscript in the Wagenhals
                            Collection.
            
              12 "Jesse Lynch Holman," in A
                                Biographical History of Eminent and Self Made Men, I, 35. The two longer poems
                            referred to, in his own handwriting, are now in the Wagenhals Collection.
            
              13 Mrs. Herman T. Briscoe, The Hoosier School of Fiction (M.A. thesis,
                            Indiana University, 
                Bloomington
              , Indiana, 1934), 9n. In later life, however, Holman became convinced that the
                            morals of the book were not suitable for the minds of young people, and he attempted to buy
                            up and destroy the entire edition. Nevertheless, two copies are known to be in existence
                            today. One is in the pòssession of Professor William I. Bartlett, of 
                Roanoke
              . 
                Virginia
              , and the other is in the Howard Memorial Library at 
                New Orleans
              .
            
              14 Although this statement is found in many reliable sources, yet no
                            positive proof of its reliability has been found. It is very probable, however, that many
                            aspiring young 
                Kentucky
               lawyers of that day came under the influence of Henry 
                Clay
              , either directly or indirectly. See History of 
                  Dearborn
                 and 
                  Ohio
                 Counties, 152. The most authoritative source for this information is
                            the brief account of the life of Jesse L. Holman in the handwriting of his son, William S.
                            Holman, loaned by Mrs. Harvey.
            
              15 Cathcart, Baptist Encyclopedia, 535. If the date
                            of his birth, October 24, 1784, is correct, then he was not yet twenty-one years old when he
                            was granted a license to practice law.
          
           strongly to the young lawyer. She was the daughter of Judge
                    Richard M. Masterson, one of the leading jurists of the state and owner of large tracts of land in
                    the surrounding region. The young couple were married in 1810; and the following year, after the
                    birth of their first child, the three set out for their new home in the Indiana Territory.

        On leaving Kentucky, the Holmans journeyed up the Ohio River and landed in Indiana near the present
                    site of Aurora, in Dearborn County. Accompanying them was a large family of slaves which Mrs. Holman
                    had inherited from her father; but because it was contrary to the Northwest Ordinance and the laws
                    of the Indiana Territory to import slaves into Indiana, they were given their freedom.16 It is quite probable that some of them became indentured servants.

        The country was virtually a wilderness, but the Holmans visualized its future possibilities. They
                    chose a spot four miles down the Ohio River from the growing town of Lawrenceburg and about
                    twenty-one miles below Cincinnati, the "Queen City of the West." Nine
                    miles below them was the town of Rising Sun, a thriving community for that day.17 The site which Holman had selected was atop a bluff rising four hundred feet above the Ohio
                    River, which sweeps around in a great bend at this place. Forests clothed all the higher ground, and
                    rich bottom lands gave great promise for future development.

        It was on the very summit of the hill that Jesse Lynch Holman built his log house. It was
                    unpretentious, but sturdy and in keeping with the character of its owner. The Holmans decided to
                    name their new home Veraestau, from parts of three Latin words, ver, spring, aestas, summer, and autumnus, autumn. Holman hoped that there
                    would be no winter in the new home, no matter how violently the winds might blow about it.

        Holman might have been influenced in the choice of a name by the circumstances of their arrival. It
                    was in the dead of winter when he brought his young wife and child to their new home; and according
                    to tradition, it was a bitterly cold night. After settling his family in the log cabin, Holman had
                    to walk back two miles to the Eagle Hotel 
            
              16
              History of Dearborn and Ohio Counties, 152.
            
              17 Harlow Lindley (ed.), Indiana as Seen by Early
                                Travelers (Indianapolis, 1916), 148. This account by Samuel R. Brown was quoted
                            from The Western Gazetteer; or Emigrant's Directory.
            
          
           at the mouth of Hogan Creek, to get a shovelful of glowing coals
                    to start his fire. It is a miracle that he ever got them safely to the top of the hill, but the
                    hearth of the new cabin was soon glowing brightly.18
        
        Holman lost no time in undertaking the arduous task of subduing the wilderness. There was much to be
                    done; and it was a work of conquest, a struggle with the elements for supremacy. Roads had to be
                    built, swamps drained, and lands cleared and made ready for farming. At first most of
                    Holman's time was devoted to the land, but it was not long before his abilities as a lawyer
                    were put to use. Men of brains, ability, courage, and daring were much needed in the new country;
                    and Holman soon became a leader in the social and political life of 
            Dearborn County
          . He became known as a man of affairs, and his neighbors and friends eagerly sought his
                    advice. On May 28, 1811, Governor William Henry Harrison appointed him prosecuting attorney for 
            Dearborn County
           to succeed General James Dill.19 A year and a half later he
                    received in addition a pro tempore appointment as prosecuting attorney for 
            Jefferson County
           and on November 4, 1812, was formally commissioned to that position.20
        
        Holman's circle of influence was thus widening steadily. When, in 1814, Isaac
                    Dunn's resignation left a vacancy in the 
            Dearborn County
           representation in the General Assembly, Holman was chosen to complete the term. His
                    actual service began that summer at the special session of the House called by Governor Posey to
                    reapportion the territory for the election of councilors. With the House members from
                            
            Knox, Warrick

          , and Gibson counties protesting vigorously that the session had been
                    called illegally and voting against every action of the majority, Holman devoted himself to
                    perfecting the phraseology of the reapportionment resolution to meet their criticisms. His name
                    appears often in the record of the session, considering the fact that he was a new member.20
        
        
          
            18 Elmer Davis, "Mt. Veraestau and the Holmans of Today and
                        Yesterday," in 
              Indianapolis
            
            Sunday Star, October 13, 1907.
          
            19 The original copy of the appointment, signed by Governor Harrison, is
                        in the Wagenhals Collection. Logan Esarey, Messages and Papers of Jonathan
                            Jennings, Ratliff Boon, and William. Hendricks (Indiana Historical Collections, XII, 
              Indianapolis
            , 1924), 37n.
          
            20 Louis B. Ewbank and Dorothy L. Riker (eds.), The Laws of
                            Indiana Territory (Indiana Historical Collections, XX, 
              Indianapolis
            , 1934), 847.
          
            21
            
              Vincennes
            , Indiana, Western Sun, July 2, 1814.
        
        
        At the August election, Holman was chosen to represent 
            Dearborn

           and Jefferson counties in the legislative council of the fifth General Assembly, which
                    met in its first session from August 15 to September 10, 1814. He presided over the council.22 It was this legislature which approved an act for the formation of the county
                    of 
            Switzerland
           out of the counties of 
            Dearborn

           and Jefferson. Holman was one of the commissioners appointed to fix the seat of justice
                    in the new county.23
        
        Soon after the close of this session of the legislature, Governor Posey appointed Holman presiding
                    judge of the Second Judicial Circuit, comprising Clark, Harrison, Jefferson, and 
            Washington
           counties.24 He took the oath of office on September 20, 1814,
                    before Isaac Dunn, clerk of 
            Dearborn County
          , and served until December 21, 1816.25 For a part of this time he
                    also served as judge of the Third Circuit, which included 
            Dearborn, Franklin, Wayne
          , and 
            Switzerland
           counties. His salary was $700.00 per year.26
        
        The territorial legislature again recognized Holman as a leading citizen of 
            Dearborn County
          , when he was named one of the incorporators for a bridge to be erected over Hogan
                    Creek, in the vicinity of 
            Decatur
           (this was the original name of the town of 
            Aurora
          ). The act was approved by the legislature on December 26, 1815. Holman and the other
                    incorporators were authorized to raise a sum not exceeding $3000, in shares of
                    $25.00 each. The commissioners and subscribers were declared to be "a body
                    politic and corporate, by the name and style of the 
            Decatur
           Bridge Company."27
        
        It was also in 1815 that Holman advertised a sale of lots to be held at 
            Decatur
           on September 4. One advertisement appeared in the 
            Lexington, Kentucky
          , Western Eagle on August 12; and evidently it was expected that it would induce
                    many Kentuckians to cross into Indiana. The notice mentioned the many advantages of the new town,
                    "located 
            
              22
              History of 
                  Dearborn
                 and 
                  Ohio

                 Counties, 152. The details of legislation enacted by this Assembly are
                            set forth in Ewbank and Riker, Laws of Indiana Territory,
                            68–76, 801–02; and John B. Dillon, A History of
                            Indiana (
                Indianapolis
              , 1859), 543–45.
            
              23 Ewbank and Riker, Laws of Indiana Territory, 829.
            
              24
              Ibid.
            
              25 This oath contained a clause against dueling.
            
              26 Ewbank and Riker, Laws of Indiana Territory, 822;
                            David D. Banta, History of 
                  Johnson County
                , Indiana, (
                Chicago
              , 1888), 120.
            
              27 Quoted in Ewbank and Riker, Laws of Indiana
                            Territory, 660.
          
           about seven miles from the mouth of the Great Miami
                        River, in a fertile and populous country, rapidly increasing in
                    improvements," and situated on a "commanding eminence, of easy access from the 
            Ohio
          ." It declared that it was "on the nearest route from the settlements
                    of the Whitewater to 
            Vevay
           and Port William, and also from 
            Cincinnati
           to 
            Vincennes
           and 
            St. Louis
          ."28
        

        Meanwhile, Indiana Territory was assuming some of the characteristics of statehood. By 1815 its total
                    population was in excess of 63,000, and there was considerable agitation to bring the area into the
                    Union on a par with the other states. While there is no evidence to prove that Holman took a very
                    active part in this movement for statehood, yet his activity in subsequent events justifies the
                    assertion that he was eager for the change and worked for it. At any rate, when the first state
                    legislature met at Corydon on November 4, 1816, Holman was one of eight men nominated to represent
                    the state in the national Senate.29 Only three votes were cast in his favor,
                    however, as compared with twenty-six for James Noble and twenty for Waller Taylor.30 It was this legislature which, on November 11, designated him as one of the three
                    presidential electors from Indiana. He received thirty-six votes, Thomas H. Blake twenty, and Joseph 
            Bartholomew
           twenty-five.31 These three electors cast their votes for James 
            Monroe
          .32
        

        Holman's popularity and legal ability were recognized by Governor Jonathan Jennings, when he
                    appointed him as one of the three judges of the state Supreme Court. The other two appointees were
                    John Johnson and James Scott.33 These men were to serve for a seven-year term,
                    according to the new state constitution. The law stated that the first term of the court was to
                    commence on May 5, 1817, 
            
              28 Quoted in ibid., 79n.
            
              29 Banta, History of 
                  Johnson County
                , Indiana, 122.
            
              30 John B. Stoll, History of Indiana Democracy,
                                1816–1916 (
                Indianapolis
              , 1917), 31.
            
              31 Esarey, Messages of Jennings, Boon, and
                            Hendricks, 14n.
            
              32 The original notification of Holman's election, signed by
                            Jonathan Jennings, and dated from Corydon, November 14, 1816, is in the Wagenhals
                            Collection.
            
              33 Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches, 84.
                            Johnson lived but a short time; and Isaac 
                Blackford
              , of 
                Vincennes
              , a young lawyer originally from 
                New Jersey
               and a graduate of 
                Princeton
              , was appointed in his place on September 10, 1817.
          
           when the judges were to appear and take their seats.34 Their work at first was not very burdensome. Only two cases were on motion
                    before the court in the first term and only three in the Second.35 The judges
                    were held in high esteem by the bar and the public alike.36 Holman himself was
                    considered a good judge, "careful, laborious, and exact" in his deliberations. He
                    had the reputation of being a very conscientious jurist.37 His friend Horace
                    Bassett said of him: "His decisions… will compare with the most eminent Jurists
                    of the country; showing the full exercise of a clear and decerning [sic] mind, and
                    that stern integrity which constitutes one of the highest of Judicial ornaments."38
        
        One case in particular which came up during Holman's service on the bench deserves some
                    notice, as it expresses rather conclusively his attitude toward the slavery question. It was purely
                    a test case, which was brought into the state Supreme Court on appeal. No mention of it was made in
                    the press of the day, either during the time it was before the court or after the decision had been
                    announced. It seems unlikely, however, that this indicated little interest or feeling in the matter.
        One side of the argument contended that slavery was excluded from Indiana Territory by the Ordinance
                    of 1787, and from the state by the new constitution of 1816. The contrary argument maintained that
                    the Ordinance of 1787 not only did not prohibit slavery that already existed at the time of its
                    adoption, but that it even expressly preserved it, and that the slave property guaranteed by it
                    could not be taken away by the constitution. Judges Scott, Holman, and Black-ford took a middle
                    ground. They held that the 
            Virginia

           deed of cession and the Ordinance itself were immaterial, and that the question must be
                    decided by the provisions of the constitution. They declared that it could not be denied that
                    legislative 
            
              34 Isaac 
                Blackford
              , Reports of Cases Argued and Determined in the Supreme Court of
                                Judicature of the State of Indiana (3 vols., 
                Indianapolis
              , 1830–1836), I, 1. The original commission, signed by Jonathan
                            Jennings, with the day of the month of December, 1816, left blank, together with the
                            certification signed by Isaac Dunn that Holman took the oath of office on January 9, 1817,
                            is in the Wagenhals Collection.
            
              35 Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches, 144.
            
              36
              Ibid.
            
            
              37 Charles W. Taylor, Biographical Sketches and Review of
                                the Bench and Bar of Indiana (
                Indianapolis
              , 1895), 33.
            
              38 Bassett, Jesse Lynch Holman.
          
           authority, uncontrolled by any constitutional provision, could
                    emancipate slaves. Such action had been taken in several of the states. The judges reasoned that it
                    was within the legitimate powers of the constitutional convention to prohibit the existence of
                    slavery in the state. They contended that the framers of the state constitution intended a total and
                    entire prohibition of slavery, and they could conceive of no form of words in which that intention
                    could have been more clearly expressed. By this decision, the slavery question in Indiana was
                    brought to an absolute end, so far as any legal basis was concerned.39
        
        While Holman was serving on the state bench, he was requested to help lay out the town of 
            Decatur
          . In 1819, Holman was named a trustee for the "
            Aurora
           Association for Internal Improvements," a group of about twenty men residing
                    in 
            Ohio
          , 
            Kentucky

          , and Indiana, organized for the purpose of laying out the town. Holman was chosen
                    president at the first meeting of the association, and the legal title of the land was vested in
                    him. It was decided that the company "proceed by themselves or their directors to lay out a
                    town, to build an ox saw-mill and grist-mill, a bridge across Hogan Creek, a warehouse or such other
                    improvements as they may judge proper." The land, except for a small reservation at Hogan
                    Creek, was conveyed to Holman, in trust for the association, on January 14, 1819, and "the
                    original plat of the town was acknowledged by Mr. Holman as trustee… on January 30, 1819,
                    and recorded the same day." Holman resigned as director, trustee, and treasurer of the
                    association, however, on October 24, 1822, because of his duties on the state Supreme Court. He was
                    thanked by the association for the "ability, wisdom, impartiality and integrity with which
                    he managed the concerns of the company."40
        
        According to tradition, because of the jealousy between the new town and the thriving community of
                    Rising Sun, nine miles down stream, Holman used his influence to change the name from 
            Decatur
           to 
            Aurora
          , as "the 
            Aurora

           comes before the Rising Sun," he said. The latter town had been growing rather
                    rapidly and, as early as 1817, contained 
            
              39 Jacob P. Dunn, Indiana, A Redemption from Slavery (
                Boston
              , 1888), 439–41.
            
              40
              History of 
                  Dearborn
                 and 
                  Ohio
                 Counties, 305.
          
           thirty or forty houses, with a post office and a
                    "floating mill anchored abreast of the town." It was expected to become
                    "a place of considerable trade."41
        

        During his first term on the state Supreme Court, Holman was mentioned as a possible successor to
                    Governor Jennings. In fact, early in 1819, he was the only one who was even considered as an
                    opponent of the governor42 But his popularity was not general throughout the
                    state at this time, nor was he very much interested in leaving the bench.

        Apparently his friends were boosting him for the position without his knowledge or approval. In a
                    letter dated May 19, 1819, he attempted to remove the impression from the minds of his
                    fellow-citizens that he would allow his name to be used at the ensuing election. He vigorously
                    condemned those people who were determined on his candidacy. He asserted in the letter that the use
                    of his name in the public press had originated by mistake, which he would have corrected earlier had
                    he been aware of the circumstance. He wrote: 

            Flattered as I have been by the solicitude of my friends; feeling the warmest sentiments of
                            gratitude for the honor their partiality would willingly confer upon me, it is not without
                            some unpleasant sensations that I feel myself compelled by domestic concerns to act contrary
                            to their wishes; and to inform my fellow-citizens generally, what I have uniformly declared
                            to those with whom I have conversed on the subject, that it is not my desire to be
                            considered as a candidate for the distinguished office of Governor.43
            
          
        

        He further stated in his letter that it had been reported that his name had been used as a possible
                    candidate, on the authority of a letter which he had written; but he declared that this was
                    undoubtedly a mistake, since he felt certain that he had not written a letter to any person on the
                    subject. When his friends had first requested that he become a candidate, he had unhesitatingly
                    replied that he did not seek the office; but he had later consented to take the subject under
                    consideration, when his friends, continued to insist. In a very short time, he wrote, he had become
                    convinced that it 
            
              41 Lindley, Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers, 148.
                            Quoted from the Western Gazetteer.
            
              42
              
                Vincennes
              , Indiana, Western Sun, May 22, 1819.
            
              43 Jesse L. Holman to 
                Brown
              , May 19, 1819. No post office address is given. Wagenhals Collection.
          
           would not be beneficial to his own personal affairs or to those
                    of his family to accept the gubernatorial office.

        It was also claimed in this letter that, before he had been able to reach his friends, his name had
                    gone forward as a potential candidate. His friends, therefore, had continued to place his name
                    before the people. While this had increased his reluctance to disappoint them and had increased his
                    gratitude to them, it had not altered his domestic duties nor his final determination. Finally, he
                    declared that while he thus declined the offer of his friends, he assured them 

            that their zeal in my behalf, has exerted in me the most grateful
                            feelings—feelings which I hope will have their proper object in stimulating - my
                            utmost exertions, so to discharge the duties of public and private life, that those, whose
                            partiality would now confide to me the highest trust, may never blush to own that they were
                            once my friends.44
            
          
        

        In spite of the expressions contained in this letter, however, Holman had been advised early by
                    Jennings himself that there was a movement under way to make him governor. In a letter from Corydon,
                    dated December 19, 1818, Jennings described the political situation existing at the time and
                    declared that there were several people who seemed very anxious to bring forth a candidate who could
                    defeat him. "Those who are most desirous of affecting me," he wrote,
                    "urge the idea of bringing you forward as a candidate for the office of Governor at the
                    next election."45
        

        The fears of Jennings regarding the ensuing election were without foundation, as future events
                    proved. His opponent turned out to be Christopher Harrison, whom Jennings defeated by an
                    overwhelming majority.46
        
        On completing his first term on the state Supreme Court bench, Holman was appointed to another
                    seven-year term by Governor Hendricks. His commission was dated December 29, 1823; and he took the
                    oath of office before Daniel 
            Bartholomew
          , one of the justices of the court in 
            Dearborn County
          , on February 27, 1824.47
        

        Although Judge Holman no doubt wished to be appointed for another term, he disliked to be away from
                    his beloved 
            
              44
              Ibid,.
            
              45 Jonathan Jennings to Holman, Corydon, December 19, 1818. Wagenhals
                            Collection.
            
              46 Esarey, Messages of Jennings, Boon, and
                            Hendricks, 22.
            
              47 The originals of both documents are in the Wagenhals
                        Collection.
          
           family and fireside for any length of time. He had the welfare
                    of the various members of his family pretty much at heart, as is revealed in the following letter
                    addressed to his daughter and her husband at 
            Fort Wayne
          : 
            I regret to learn… that you my darling Emerine are unwell…. It becomes
                            you to be extremely careful of your health, and to avoid all possible exposure that might
                            bring on those chills & fevers to which it seems you have become so liable. By last
                            letter I received a letter from your dear sister Eliza, stating that your ever to be beloved
                            & honored mother was also unwell, & had been so for several days. I trust it
                            is nothing serious…. I am extremely anxious to be at Veraestau. It is now nearly
                            four weeks since I left home—A longer absence than I had expected. And it will be
                            at least a week before I can return….

            There is more business in our Court than common, & we shall dispatch more than we
                            have done at any one term for several years…. The term of the Court thus far has
                            been a pleasant one. But I am anxious to return to the beloved objects I have left behind
                                me….48
            
          
        
        During Holman's second term on the state Supreme Court, political jugglery ran riot
                    throughout the state of Indiana, and the judges were soon to feel the political ax. Long before
                    their terms expired in 1830, Governor James 
            Brown
           Ray intimated that he would not reappoint them. In due time, therefore, Judge James
                    Scott, of 
            Clark County
          , and Holman found themselves the victims of the governor's threat. Judge Isaac 
            Blackford

          , however, was reappointed, largely because, according to Oliver H. Smith, he had been
                    the competitor in the gubernatorial race against Governor Ray, who now thought he could make friends
                    in the Black-ford ranks by renominating his former opponent.49
        
        It had been fully expected at first that Governor Ray would not dare carry out his threat. Writing
                    from 
            Logansport

           on November 13, 1830, Horace Bassett reported to Holman that it was the general feeling
                    there that the governor would renominate all three of the judges.50 Charles H.
                    Test declared in a letter to Holman that the good of the country did not require a change to be made
                    in the personnel of the court.51
        
        
          
            48 Holman to Allen 
              Hamilton, Indianapolis
            , May
                        25, 1829. Wagenhals Collection.
          
            49 Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches, 144.
          
            50 Horace Bassett to Holman, 
              Logansport
            , November 13, 1830. Wagenhals Collection.
          
            51 Charles H. Test to Holman, 
              Rushville
            , November 16, 1830. Wagenhals Collection.
        
        

        The charge was made at the time, and it was very generally believed, that Ray had refused to
                    reappoint Holman and Scott because they had declined to aid him in his senatorial aspirations. This
                    action cost him many friends, and his popularity waned and finally disappeared. The people believed
                    that Ray was prompted more by personal reasons than by the public good; therefore they withdrew
                    their support and confidence from him.52
        
        Shortly after Holman retired from the state bench, some of his friends persuaded him to seek election
                    to the 
            United States
           Senate to succeed his old friend, General James Noble, who had recently died in 
            Washington

          . In a letter to "Brother Holman," Dennis Pennington, writing from his
                    home in Corydon, expressed elation over such a possibility and pledged his full support.53
        
        There was, however, considerable opposition to Holman's candidacy. Writing from his home in 
            Richmond
          , August 13, 1831, his friend David Hoover warned Holman that the new legislature would
                    be definitely against him, and would favor either John Test, Thomas Blake, or James Rariden,
                    although it appeared that John 
            Tipton
           had a slight edge over all the other candidates.54 A rather
                    optimistic note was struck in a letter addressed to Holman from John A. Farnham, dated at 
            Jeffersonville
          , August 22, in which he insisted that the legislature would support Holman.55
        
        Holman evidently lost no time in attempting to enlist support. That fall he was very active
                    throughout the state in the interest of his candidacy, even going into the home districts of his
                    rivals. By early November, he had completed his tour through the Wabash Valley;
                    and on November 9 he wrote from 
            Indianapolis
           to his son-in-law at 
            Fort Wayne
          : "My prospects on the upper 
            Wabash
           are not flattering if 
            Tipton

           is a candidate, but I do not think he will be. In that case I shall beat Blake in the
                    West, and I do not fear his doing anything in the South or East."56
        
        
          
            52 William W. Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches
                            of Early Indiana (
              Indianapolis
            , 1883), 57.
          
            53 Dennis Pennington to Holman, Corydon, April 11, 1831. Wagenhals
                        Collection.
          
            54 David Hoover to Holman, 
              Richmond
            , Indiana, August 13, 1831. Wagenhals Collection.
          
            55 John A. Farnham to Holman, 
              Jeffersonville
            , Indiana, August 22, 1831. Wagenhals Collection.
          
            56 Holman to Allen 
              Hamilton, Indianapolis
            ,
                        November 9, 1831. Wagenhals Collection.
        
        
        As the vote in the legislature showed, however, Holman and his friends were mistaken about his rivals
                    and their strength, as well as his own chances of success. The legislature was strongly against him
                    and on the sixth ballot chose John 
            Tipton
           to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Noble57 It is quite
                    apparent from a letter written by Seth M. Levenworth to Holman soon after his defeat that the
                    Masonic Order had much influence in the election and that Holman was not supported by its
                        members.58
        
        In a lengthy letter written to Allen 
            Hamilton
           of 
            Fort Wayne
          , Holman gave his own account of the political manipulations during the election.
                    "It was such a' conflicting sum of intrigue and deception," he wrote,
                    "that much of the mysterious perplexity still hangs over it. And accounts were so confused
                    and contradictory that I grew sick of the details and left 
            Indianapolis
           in two days after the election was over." He remarked that Test had been
                    talked of as a candidate until a day or two before the election, when he declined. "Rariden
                    was kept in heart by O. H. Smith & 
            Wabash
           Jackson men who did not intend to support him," he declared. "Blake
                    was also supported by a number of Jackson men who did not want him elected—they wanted to
                    push him ahead of me at first," Holman said. As to his own support for senator when the
                    balloting occurred, Holman claimed that he was not able to determine who were his friends. So many
                    told him and his friends that they had voted for him that he was at a loss "to select among
                    them the number of votes I really got."
        The letter continued: 
            
              
                
                  
                    Tipton
                  's conduct is involved in mystery…. Test says that
                                    Rariden & 
                    Tipton
                   made an express bargain to support each other…. On the other
                                    hand, 
                    Tipton
                  's confidential friends as well as himself assured me at 
                    Logansport
                   & at the time of the election that 
                    Tipton
                   wished me elected….It was said of 
                    Tipton
                   and with his express sanction that he did not wish to be a
                                    candidate…but was afraid…the Jackson party would all turn
                                    against him. I knew if I had to contend with 
                    Tipton
                   I was in great danger of being beaten…. 
                    Tipton
                   I knew would get 16 
                    Clay
                   votes. Some of them stood pledged to support him if he was a candidate,
                                    & others on the 
                    Wabash
                   voted for him because he was a 
                    
                      57
                      Journal of the Senate of the State of Indiana, 1831, pp.
                                            45–46. See also "Jesse Lynch Holman," in A Biographical History of Eminent and Self Made Men, I,
                                            35. According to tradition, Holman was defeated by only one vote, but this
                                            is obviously an error, and no proof can be found to substantiate it.
                    
                      58 S. M. Levenworth to Holman, dated from
                                            "Levenworth," December 24, 1831.
                  
                  
                  
                    Wabash
                   man. So without eight or ten of the Jackson men I had no hope of
                                    success; and these I would have gotten if 
                    Boone
                   and McCarty had been on the ground. But there was such an overwhelming
                                    Jackson force on the ground that they…overawed 
                    Boone
                  's & McCarty's friends into the support of 
                    Tipton
                  . Besides this there were several violent opposers of religion in the
                                    Legislature & these to a man were against me. And Rariden when he failed
                                    himself did all in his power against me. Bassett is charged by some as having played
                                    on both sides between 
                    Tipton
                   & me, but I have no doubt he did all in his power for me.59
                
              
            
          
        
        Holman claimed that he had less regret over the election than had the great body of his friends. He
                    would as a matter of choice remain quietly at home rather than have a seat in the Senate of the 
            United States
          . He assured his son-in-law that no office of honor or profit could repay the
                    "sickening feelings I endured while witnessing the corruption & duplicity that
                    attended the senatorial canvass." He had done all that his friends had asked of him, and
                    "there was no arrangement left untried that seemed to promise success." He felt
                    that one vital reason for his defeat was the very powerful combination against all advocates of
                    temperance, Sunday schools, and Bible and tract societies, in which he had always taken a strong
                    interest.

        Holman further declared that the rotation-in-office policy had spread in favor, and that the people
                    were now demanding younger men in office. "A man acts wisely in knowing the proper time
                    when he should cease to struggle for public office," he wrote. He also tried to console
                    himself by contending that his family, "especially Richard," required his
                    attention at home. He believed that in many cases where men had filled high offices, "it
                    would have conduced to the welfare of society & the happiness of their families" if
                    they had devoted more time "to the rearing up of their children."60
        

        When Holman retired from the state bench after fourteen years of service, he found abundant
                    opportunity to engage in the many activities which had always meant so much to him. He really
                    enjoyed this vacation from political labors. He loved to spend his time with his family at
                    Veraestau, which had become one of the most celebrated homesteads in Indiana. 
            
              59 Holman to Allen 
                Hamilton
              , from Veraestau. The letter is dated December 3, 1832, but this is obviously a
                            mistake; it should have been 1831. Wagenhals Collection.
            
              60
              Ibid. The Richard referred to was Richard Henry Holman, who died ten years
                            later of pulmonary consumption.
          
           His tastes "were eminently domestic and social, and,
                    although so long on the bench, he was more devoted to…the society of friends than to the
                    profession of law."61 His domestic contentment is shown in a letter
                    which he wrote to his daughter and her husband. After relating some items of community interest,
                    particularly in regard to the recent Ohio River flood, when the waters had
                    risen higher than ever before, and "several feet higher than the celebrated flood of
                    1792," he wrote: 
            I am now settled down for farming, listening occasionally to the
                            political…[illegible] abroad. Some of our Representation are very much
                            dissatisfied with Senator 
                Tipton
              ….I suspect from the general rumor that 
                Tipton

              's race will not be a long one, but who will be his successor is
                            doubtful. My own career must be left to time & circumstances. I feel far better on
                            my farm & at my fireside than in canvassing for office.62
            
          
        

        Now that Holman was relieved of his official duties, he could turn his attention to various projects
                    for community betterment. He had always taken a leading part in the encouragement of religious and
                    educational movements. He entered into the benevolent activities of his day with rare boldness and
                    energy and was a willing and able advocate of all those who came to him for advice and help.63
        

        From his early life, his mind had been directed to the subject of religion. His friends said of him
                    that his religious feelings "were at all times and under all circumstances, manifested with
                    a boldness and consistency of character, that satisfied everyone that he was not ashamed of the
                    Cross of Christ."64 He was one of a group of elders and laymen who met
                    at 
            Aurora

           on February 26, 1820, for the purpose of organizing a Baptist church there. He was
                    chosen clerk of the meeting. The first services of the new church were conducted in a log house
                    which had been built originally for a private residence and was afterwards used as a schoolhouse.
                    All Christian denominations were allowed to use it for church purposes, "as occasion might
                        require."65
        
        Holman was so greatly interested in the work of the 
            
              61
              Biographical History of Eminent and Self Made Men, I, 35.
            
              62 Holman to Allen 
                Hamilton
              , from Veraestau, February 20, 1832. Wagenhals Collection.
            
              63 Bassett, Jesse Lynch Holman.
            
              64
              Ibid.
            
              65
              History of 
                  Dearborn
                 and 
                  Ohio
                 Counties, 328.
          
          
          
            Aurora

           church that he pledged five times more money for its support than any other member. The
                    money was used largely to pay the salary of its first pastor, who was paid a fixed compensation.
                    Such an arrangement for the benefit of the minister was rather unusual in those days.66 As a result of Holman's encouragement, the Baptists of 
            Aurora

          , before the end of their first decade as an organized church, had built the first real
                    meeting-house in the town. It was constructed of brick. This was the famous church in which the
                    noted preacher, Lorenzo Dow, later conducted services.67
        
        In 1834 the dream of Holman's life was realized, when the 
            Aurora

           church voted unanimously "to invite a council to consider the propriety of
                    setting apart to the ministry Jesse L. Holman." He was accordingly ordained.68 He served the 
            Aurora

           church from then until his death, without salary, and preached regularly when not away
                    on public duty. Even when he traveled the judicial circuit, it was no unusual thing for him to
                    address his fellow-citizens on Bible subjects, missions, Sabbath schools, general education, and
                    temperance. There was no incongruity in this, because his whole life was so consistent and earnest
                    that there seemed to be a singular harmony in his two offices of judge and preacher.69
        
        Holman's services as pastor of the 
            Aurora
           church more than met the expectations of his congregation, and the church grew and
                    prospered under his leadership. His public as well as his private life was so unsullied that men
                    were always glad to hear him preach.
        Holman rendered further service to his community along educational lines. He was one of the leading
                    champions of a library for the town of 
            Aurora
          . Largely through his efforts, the founders of the town made provisions for public
                    schools by setting aside certain lands for school purposes. Under his encouragement, the town
                    fathers made a "large and liberal donation…including ‘Seminary
                    Square,’ to found a seminary of learning, and among the first educational institutions
                    incorporated in the State was the 
            Aurora
           Seminary."70 In 1826, Holman induced the Reverend Lucius
                    Alden, a Presbyterian 
            
              66 John F. Cady, History of the Baptist Church in
                            Indiana (Berne, Ind., 1942), 93.
            
              67
              History of 
                  Dearborn
                 and 
                  Ohio
                 Counties, 328.
            
              68
              Ibid., 329.
            
              69 Cathcart, Baptist Encyclopedia, 535.
            
              70
              History of 
                  Dearborn
                 and 
                  Ohio
                 Counties, 324.
          
           clergyman and scholar from 
            Boston
          , to come out and conduct the school, which he did successfully for several years, at an
                    annual salary of $300.00. In the fall of 1830, Mr. Alden returned to 
            Boston

           wearing "a full suit of blue jeans, woven by Mrs. Judge Holman, on the old
                        handloom."71
        
        In 1832, Holman was elected superintendent of the 
            Dearborn County
           schools.72 He also aided in the establishment of another academy
                    two years later, and Isaac McCoy was one of its teachers. Isaac's brother John wrote to his
                    son William from 
            Charlestown
          , Indiana, on September 17, 1834: "We have just reed, a communication from
                    Judge Holeman of 
            Aurora
           that there will soon be an accadamy [sic] or County Seminary started
                    in his county, which may possibly give Isaac a chance as their teacher, altho' this is
                    entirely uncertain…."73
        
        Judge Holman's interest in educational and cultural affairs is further demonstrated by his
                    connection with the Indiana Historical Society. In the minutes of its first meeting, held at the
                    courthouse in 
            Indianapolis

           on December 11, 1830, it was resolved to form the "Historical Society of
                    Indiana"; and a committee of seven was appointed to draft a constitution. This committee
                    was composed of John H. Farnham, Jesse L. Holman, Jeremiah Sullivan, Isaac Black-ford, William C.
                    Linton, James Whitcomb, and David Wallace. At a meeting of the society four days later, Holman was
                    elected one of the vice-presidents.74
        

        Throughout Holman's entire career, he was particularly interested in the missionary and
                    Sunday school movements which were beginning to take shape in Indiana, despite tremendous resistance
                    by various factions within the state. Such activities were not popular in those days in the western
                    country, and many pious folk looked upon them as the dese- 
            
              71
              Ibid., 605.
            
              72
              Ibid., 152. Holman must have been reelected to this position, as an
                            original certification, dated the first Monday in August, 1834, and signed by James Dill,
                            clerk of the 
                Dearborn
               Circuit Court, is in the Wagenhals Collection. He took the oath of office on
                            September 22, 1835, before Horace Bassett, justice of the peace.
            
              73 This information was supplied to the author in a letter from Mrs.
                            Sumner Hayward, November 17, 1939. Mrs. Hayward has been doing research on the life of John
                            McCoy. McCoy's spelling, "Holeman," is interesting.
            
              74 Christopher B. Coleman (ed.), Centennial Handbook
                                Indiana Historical Society, 1820–1930 (
                Indianapolis
              , 1930), 6–7.
          
           cration of God's house. As a result, they were usually
                    promoted as undenominational enterprises.75
        

        The attitude of Holman on the question of Sunday schools is well expressed in a paper which he wrote
                    on the subject. In refuting the arguments against such schools, he compared them to the common
                    schools of the day. He declared that the best teachers of the public schools were also found in the
                    Sunday schools, and that the one school was complementary to the other. He praised the
                    inexpensiveness of the Sunday schools, which he attributed to the voluntary labor of the teachers.
                    He hailed the movement as a "powerful guarantee of civil and religious liberty"
                    and attempted to prove that the Sunday schools were strong factors in shaping the destinies of a
                    republican form of government.76
        

        As early as 1824, Holman organized a union Sunday school, which is believed to have been the first in
                    the state. He served as its superintendent until his death.77 During his travels
                    throughout the state, he distributed many religious books and tracts. He established cooperating
                    Bible societies in many places, and endeavored to provide every destitute family within his county
                    with a copy of the Scriptures.78 Through these contacts, Holman became one of
                    the most highly respected and best-loved men in the state, particularly among the more liberal and
                    progressive element. One who knew him well said: 

            We have often been amused when traveling through the country, to hear honest-minded farmers
                            speak of Judge Holman, and with what lively recollections they would refer to his visits,
                            giving day and date; and often have we heard the remark that this (referring to some
                            accident or occurence) took place the fall after Judge Holman was here, or that that
                            happened a year or two years after Judge Holman visited us and stopped over
                            night—making his visits an era or important period in the history of the
                                family.79
            
          
        

        For many years Holman was vice-president of the American Sabbath School Union and president of the
                    Western Baptist Publication and Sabbath School Society.80 As a member of the
                    latter agency, he supervised the work of all of 
            
              75 Cady, Baptist Church in Indiana, 94n.
            
              76 The Negro Question, a rough draft manuscript in Holman's
                            handwriting. Wagenhals Collection.
            
              77
              Biographical History of Eminent and Self Made Men, I, 35.
            
              78 Cady, Baptist Church in Indiana, 94.
            
              79 Quoted in History of 
                  Dearborn
                 and 
                  Ohio
                 Counties, 152.
            
              80 Cathcart, Baptist Encyclopedia, 535.
          
           its representatives who were sent into Indiana. He was
                    authorized to control all the societies formed by such agents in connection with the board.81 It was the general policy of the board to set up local agencies wherever
                    practicable, and Holman was considered the best qualified man in the state for the duty of
                    supervising such activities.82
        

        After Holman had been relieved of his duties on the state Supreme Court, he was able to give almost
                    his undivided attention to religious projects.83 In 1831 he helped to establish
                    an Indiana Bible society, through which nearly four hundred volumes of the Scriptures were
                    distributed in the first year alone, one fourth of the cost being paid by Holman from his own
                        pocket.84
        
        So strongly did he feel on the whole Sunday school question that he was constantly urging his friends
                    and relatives to foster such a program in their respective communities. In a letter to the Allen
                    Hamiltons at 
            Fort Wayne
          , he urged them to establish a Sunday school there: 

            Even if you labored under difficulties at first, yet by perseverance you would be enabled to
                            succeed. If your school was but small at first, it would still be a gratification to promote
                            the moral interest of even a few children, & it would give something- of the
                            appearance of a Sabbath among you. There is very great danger, my dear children, in being
                            without Sabbath privileges…. But if you had no other show of a Sabbath, than a
                            Sabbath-School, it would enable you to bear more strongly in mind that there is an
                            everlasting Sabbath above which should be the first and main pursuit of every rational
                            being….I should be much gratified to hear that you were both engaged so far as
                            you may have opportunity in promoting one of these important nurseries of morality and
                                religion.85
            
          
        
        The Baptists of Indiana were somewhat hostile to the missionary movement which was spreading through
                    the state in the decade of the thirties, but Holman was not afraid of such opposition. In fact, his
                    church at 
            Aurora
           became the headquarters for various missionary activities.86 It was
                    at 
            
              81 B. P. Aydelotte to Holman, from 
                Cincinnati
              , April 20, 1829. Wagenhals Collection.
            
              82 Frederick A. Porter to Holman, from 
                Philadelphia
              , March 19, 1831. Wagenhals Collection.
            
              83 Samuel Newbery to Holman, from 
                Indianapolis
              , December 12, 1831. Wagenhals Collection.
            
              84 Cady, Baptist Church in Indiana, 96.
            
              85 Holman to Allen 
                Hamilton
              , from Veraestau, February 10, 1829. Wagenhals Collection.
            
              86 Cathcart, Baptist Encyclopedia, 535.
          
           the meeting of the Laughery Baptist Association in 1818 that
                    Holman first raised his voice in favor of missionary support.87 He firmly
                    championed the activities of Isaac McCoy, one of the first missionaries to the Indians.88 As early as 1820, Holman urged the formation of a state organization for the
                    support of this work; but it was postponed, due to the great opposition aroused by the Baptist
                    churches against all such benevolences.89
        
        The situation had become so acute by the early thirties, that it was decided to form a general
                    association or state Baptist convention, to act as a clearing-house for the many problems facing the
                    denomination. Forty-one representatives met at the Brandywine Church in 
            Shelby County

           on April 26, 1833. They came from fifteen counties and from twenty different churches.
                    Judge Holman was chosen the moderator, and it was he who prepared the constitution for the state
                        organization.90
        
        For the next five years, Holman served as the president of the convention.91
                    During this time, one of the major problems to come before the body was that of general education
                    among the Baptists of the state. The more progressive church leaders believed that the poor
                    scholastic attainment of their ministers was the cause of their opposition to benevolent projects.
                    Holman, with a few of the others who brought about the birth of the state convention, insisted that
                    steps be taken immediately to launch a state-wide educational drive; but the majority at first
                    considered it unwise to hamper in this way the growing spirit of cooperation among their
                        constituents.92
        
        In spite of this opposition, however, the Indiana Baptist Education Society was organized at 
            Indianapolis
           on June 5, 1834,936 and a constitution was adopted in January of
                    the following year. The society proposed "to promote sound literature and sciences
                    including the literary and theological education of pious young men for the ministry, by
                    establishing 
            
              87 Cady, Baptist Church in Indiana, 93.
            
              88 John F. Cady, History of 
                  Franklin
                 College, 1834–1934 (privately printed, 1934), 15.
            
              89 Cady, Baptist Church in Indiana, 94.
            
              90
              Ibid.
            
            
              91 Cathcart, Baptist Encyclopedia, 535.
            
              92 Cady, History of 
                  Franklin
                 College, 23.
            
              93
              Ibid., 25.
          
           one or more seminaries and assisting worthy young men in
                        attendance."94 The town of 
            Franklin

           was chosen as the location for the Indiana Manual Labor Institute, and thirty-five
                    trustees were selected to administer the affairs of the school and to report annually to the Indiana
                    Education Society. Holman was named as one of the trustees. He served as vice-president from 1835 to
                    1839, and as president from then until his death.95
        

        The first constitution of the "Institute" was written by Holman. Its purpose was
                    "to promote a more general knowledge of Science, Literature, and Biblical criticism,
                    through the Baptist connection in Indiana." On January 4, 1837, Holman was invited to
                    become the principal of the school; but he declined, because his work on the federal bench, to which
                    he had recently been appointed, demanded too much of his time.96 Yet he probably
                    did more than any other person to support the school in its early years, and his death was a real
                    loss to the Baptist constituency of the state.
        Holman's interest in higher education was not confined to the Baptist college at 
            Franklin

          . While the records are not entirely clear, it appears that he should be considered as
                    one of the founders of Indiana College, which later became Indiana University. The college was
                    established in 1828, and Holman was appointed a member of the board of visitors.97 When the college became a university on February 15, 1838, Holman was named a member of the
                    board of trustees.98
        

        In 1835, Holman again took an active interest in political affairs. Benjamin Parke, the first federal
                    district judge for Indiana, had died, and Holman immediately sought the appointment to the
                        vacancy.99 The annual salary of $1000 
            
              94 Quoted by Cady, ibid., 27.
            
              95 William T. Stott, First Half Century of 
                  Franklin
                 College (
                Cincinnati
              , 1884), 30, 47.
            
              96 Quoted in ibid., 32.
            
              97 Theophilus A. Wylie, History of Indiana
                            University (
                Indianapolis

              , 1890), 19–20. A seminary was provided for by an act passed and
                            approved on January 20, 1820; but it was not opened until May, 1824. The name of the
                            seminary was changed to Indiana College in 1828. Bulletin of Indiana
                            University, 1936, p. 67.
            
              98 Mr. W. A. Alexander, Librarian of Indiana University, who is
                            compiling material on all the former trustees of the university, wrote the author on April
                            1, 1942, that he was unable to find any record that Holman ever attended any of the board
                            meetings. His records show, however, that he was a trustee for the period of perhaps one
                            year, 1838–1839.
            
              99 A brief resume of the life of Judge Parke is included by Ewbank in
                            "Judges of the Federal District Court in Indiana," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, XXXV, 371–87.
          
           probably appealed to him.100 He wrote to
                    numerous friends, both in 
            Washington
           and elsewhere, and particularly to William Hendricks, Amos Lane, Jonathan McCarty, and
                    John 
            Tipton
          , requesting them to intercede in his behalf with President Jackson.101
        
        At first there seemed to be no serious opposition to his appointment; during the recess of Congress,
                    Jackson, on September 16, 1835, about two months after Judge Parke's death, signed the
                    commission which gave Holman the office until the end of the next session of Congress. He took the
                    oath of office before Horace Bassett, a justice of the peace of 
            Dearborn County
          , on October 8, and his first court was held on November 30.102
        
        Holman soon realized, however, that the forces against the confirmation of his appointment were very
                    powerful. It was even feared that Jackson would not send his nomination in to the Senate. When
                    Congress convened, the fears of Holman and his friends were increased. In a letter sent from 
            Washington

           on December 19, Amos Lane wrote that Holman's opponents were charging that he
                    was an anti-Jackson man and had opposed the various measures of the administration, that he was
                    "destitute of all the necessary qualifications for the office," and that he was
                    "a fanatic on the subject of religion."103 As a matter of
                    fact, Holman had cast his vote as a presidential elector in 1824 against Jackson and in favor of
                    John 
            Quincy
           Adams.104 Holman's friend, Peter Brady, took him to task
                    for his general attitude toward Jackson.105
        

        It was further believed that Jackson disagreed with Holman's attitude toward slavery.
                    Although it is true that he had given freedom to his wife's slaves when they moved to
                    Indiana in 1811, it was chiefly because of the prohibition against slavery in the Indiana Territory,
                    and not so much 
            
              100 Taylor, Bench and Bar of Indiana, 14.
            
              101 Copies of the letters written to and from Holman pertaining to
                            this appointment may be found in I. George Blake, "Seeking a Federal Judgeship
                            Under Jackson," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXV,
                            311–25. The originals are in the Wagenhals Collection.
            
              102 Taylor, Bench and Bar of Indiana, 14. The
                            originals of both documents are in the Wagenhals Collection.
            
              103 Amos Lane to Holman, from 
                Washington
              , December 19, 1835. Wagenhals Collection.
            
              104 Stoll, History of Indiana Democracy, 31.
            
              105 Peter Brady to Holman, from 
                Washington
              , September 11, 1835. Wagenhals Collection.
          
           because he held any humanitarian sentiments toward the negroes.
                    However, both he and his father were firm believers in eventual emancipation, at least
                        theoretically.106 But he was much more interested in the establishment of a
                    colony in Africa for ex-slaves than he was in merely giving them their freedom. He was a very active
                    member of the Indiana Colonization Society and had presided over its organization meeting in 
            Indianapolis
           on November 4, 1829.107 From Holman's writings and
                    letters, it appears that he was only a moderate abolitionist.108
        
        There was still another reason why Holman came to believe that his chances of securing the federal
                    judgeship were in jeopardy. A favorite political sport in those days was the general practice of
                    name-calling. Party labels were applied rather indiscriminately, and often they meant nothing at
                    all. Much confusion resulted. Party relationship was subject to sudden and frequent changes, and men
                    were known by the name of the man they followed at the moment. With such confusion in politics, it
                    is little wonder that Holman found much opposition to his appointment.
        Those who were opposed to him seemed to have such influence over President Jackson that the chances
                    of sending Holman's name in to the Senate began to appear almost hopeless, and friends of
                    the judge urged him to visit 
            Washington
           in his own behalf. Acting on this advice, he set out for the capital on January 18,
                    1836. It was a long and difficult journey to 
            Washington
           in the dead of winter. While in the mountains of 
            Maryland

          , the stage in which he was riding upset; and it was several weeks before he had
                    sufficiently recovered from the accident to proceed.109 When he finally reached
                    the capital, he immediately learned of the political bickering in and out of Congress; and he came
                    to the conclusion that the opposition was more against his friends than against him personally. He
                    found the Indiana delegation in Congress very much at odds with each other.
        
          
            106 Cathcart, Baptist Encyclopedia, 535.
          
            107 Logan Esarey, A History of Indiana (2 vols., 
              Indianapolis
            , 1915, 1918), I, 326, note 29.
          
            108 See The Negro Question, Wagenhals Collection. See also the letter
                        written by R. R. Gorby to Holman, from 
              Washington
            , November 26, 1835, and the letter from G. H. Dunn to Holman, from 
              Washington
            , January 2, 1837. Both are in the Wagenhals Collection.
          
            109 Blake, "Seeking a Federal Judgeship Under Jackson,"
                            Indiana Magazine of History, XXXV, 311–25.
        
        

        At last he had an interview with President Jackson. He was received very cordially. His description
                    of the meeting with the Chief Executive is interesting: 
            I was fortunate to find him alone. He conversed freely on a great variety of subjects. Talked
                            some on the subject of my appointment, & the opposition that was got up against
                            me….He mentioned the charge of abolition…which I had answered in
                            several letters, which I had shown him. I satisfied him completely on that subject,
                            & especially by repeating my decision in the first Negro case I acted on a few days
                            after I rec'd my commission, & which I gave a certificate for removal of
                            the slave to 
                Kentucky

              . I stated the principles upon which I decided. It gave him entire satisfaction
                            …the Gen'l was particularly pleased with my decision…,110
            
          
        

        President Jackson finally sent Holman's name in to the Senate, and the appointment was
                    confirmed unanimously on March 29, 1836.111 Holman held this position until his
                    death on March 28, 1842; but the last day he sat on the bench was November 17, 1841.112
        

        During these seven years Holman was, in the opinion of Oliver H. Smith, a "first rate judge;
                    patient, courteous, and kind in the discharge of his official duties."113 So valuable were his services while on the federal bench that the court felt a real loss
                    at his death. A special memorial service was held for him on May 17, 1842, in the courtroom in 
            Indianapolis
          , on which occasion Associate Justice John McLean of the 
            United States
           Supreme Court paid tribute to him. He said in part: 

            My acquaintance with him was not long, but it was long enough to impress me deeply with his
                            high merit as a man and public officer. His mind was sound, discriminating, and practical.
                            Of his legal research and acumen, he has left enduring evidence. But what most excited my
                            admiration, was his singleness of heart;—he had no motive but to discharge his
                            public duty uprightly…. He has left behind him the influence of a high moral
                            example. This will be widely felt; and its salutary effects cannot be lost on society.114
            
          
        
        
          
            110 Holman to Allen 
              Hamilton
            , from 
              Washington
            , February 10, 1836. Wagenhals Collection.
          
            111 William Hendricks to Holman, from 
              Washington
            , March 29, 1836. Wagenhals Collection. The certificate of appointment, signed by
                        William Forsythe, secretary of state, dated April 2, 1836, is in the Wagenhals Collection.
          
            112 Taylor, Bench and Bar of Indiana, 14.
          
            113 Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches, 147.
          
            114 Copies of the proceedings, written by Horace Bassett, clerk of the 
              United States
             District Court, were loaned to the author by Mrs. Emmerine Rees, of 
              Aurora
            , Indiana, and Mr, Cornelius O'Brien, of 
              Lawrenceburg
            , Indiana.
        
        
        At the same time, resolutions were adopted to the effect that "the members of this Bar feel
                    with deep sensibility the loss which the profession and the country have sustained in the death of
                    the Hon. Jesse L. Holman"; that they "cherish the highest respect for the
                    deceased, not merely as a Jurist, but as a man and a Christian of varied and useful talent and
                    ability, and of purity and uprightness of character, in all the diversified scenes of
                    life"; that they wear the badge of mourning for thirty days; and that Isaac 
            Blackford

           be requested to pronounce a discourse before the bar during the next term of court
                    "upon the life, character, and virtues of the deceased." Such was their opinion of
                    a man, wrote Horace Bassett, "who stands before the country without a rival as a Jurist, a
                    Christian Statesman without reproach, of one of whom it may be truly said, ‘He is one of
                    Nature's noblemen.’ 115
        

        Judge Holman died at his beloved Veraestau on March 28, 1842, in his fifty-eighth year. He was
                    mourned by the men, women, and children who had known him. He left behind him his widow and six
                    children, including William Steele Holman, who later became "the Watchdog of the
                        Treasury."116 He had been truly a kind husband and an affectionate
                    father, but he was also a great citizen. It has been said that at the time of his death
                    "one could look down from Veraestau and see fields of grain on every side, three busy towns
                    along the river and the wilderness truly beginning to blossom as the rose. And much of this
                    prosperity was due to Jesse Lynch Holman."117
        
        In his private life, Holman had displayed all those vir- 
            
              115 Bassett, Jesse Lynch Holman. On April 1, 1939, the members of the
                            bar presented to Judge Robert C. Baltzell, judge of the federal court for the southern
                            Indiana district, photographs or portraits of all of his ten predecessors, including Holman.
                            The pictures have been hung in the court library room at 
                Indianapolis
              . The authenticity of Holman's picture, however, has not been verified,
                            although there is every reason to believe that it is a good likeness of the judge. It was
                            taken from an original in the William H. English Collection in the William Henry Smith
                            Memorial Library, Indiana State Library, 
                Indianapolis
              .
            
              116 The names of the children were Emmerine, Eliza, William Steele,
                            Lucy, Mary Anne, and Jesse Lynch. Another son, Richard Henry, had died at Veraestau on
                            December 27, 1841, after an extended illness. Although an attack of pleurisy had weakened
                            the judge's physical condition, it was probably grief over the loss of this son
                            which hastened his death.
            
              117 Davis, "Mt. Veraestau and the Holmans of Today and
                            Yesterday," 
                Indianapolis
              
              Sunday Star, October 13, 1907.
          
           tues which he attempted to inculcate in others. He was the
                    champion of honesty in the relations of men and service for the welfare of the community. It is said
                    that he had a "peculiar faculty of impressing his own moral feelings upon all with whom he
                    came in contact. No one doubted the purity of his heart, and as his public and private character was
                    without spot or blemish, all were ready to acquiesce in his views."118
                    His discriminating mind and religious zeal left a wide and extended influence, not only in the
                    community where he was personally known, but throughout the state as well.
        Holman believed that nothing should be done which would bring hurt or sorrow to another. He felt that
                    individuals owed certain duties to society generally; and when his daughter Emmerine married Allen 
            Hamilton
          , of 
            Fort Wayne
          , one of his first letters to the young couple emphasized this point: 

            We should endeavor to live & maintain such a character that our standing in society
                            will not depend on external circumstances…. But we are not living to
                            ourselves…. There are various institutions of a public nature that it is our duty
                            to support, besides many private demands will be made upon us…. Above all this we
                            should be exemplary in the matter [of economy]…. Now I think there is such a
                            thing as being real benefactors to society, by living a little below the highest standard,
                            even when we are able to come up to it—it renders others better contented with
                            their condition, and so far as it has any influence it prevents others from striving to make
                            a more splendid appearance….119
            
          
        

        Such was the ruling motive in his own life. He was always a student, a lover of nature, a lover of
                    books, a preacher of the Gospel. He was a good writer and a good speaker and was pleasant and
                    entertaining in conversation. He was observant of all his duties as a neighbor and citizen. One of
                    his admirers wrote, "Taking him all in all, he was a very remarkable man—a
                    strong, serious, quiet, modest, manly, frank, kind and thoughtful man….He passed through
                    life without an enemy and without ever shirking a duty."120
        
        
          
            118 Bassett, Jesse Lynch Holman.
          
            119 Holman to Allen 
              Hamilton
            , from Veraestau, January 18, 1829. Wagenhals Collection.
          
            120 Taylor, Bench and Bar of Indiana. 33.
        
      
      
      
        Indiana Historical Society
        Officers and Committees, 1943
        Officers:
        Eli Lilly, 
            Indianapolis
          , president; William O Lynch, 
            Bloomington
          , first vice-president; Mrs. Harvey Morris, 
            Salem
          , second vice-president; Harry O. Garman, 
            Indianapolis
          , third vice-president; Christopher B. Coleman, 
            Indianapolis
          , secretary; John G. Rauch, 
            Indianapolis
          , treasurer.
        Executive Committee:
        The above officers and Lee Burns, 
            Indianapolis
          , chairman; Ora F. Hall, 
            Lafayette
          ; Albert L. Kohlmeier, 
            Bloomington
          ; Cornelius O'Brien, 
            Lawrenceburg
          .
        Bibliography of Indiana Authors:
        J. K. Lilly, Jr., 
            Indianapolis
          , chairman; Christopher B. Coleman, Benjamin D. Hitz, 
            Indianapolis
          . Jacob Blanck, Mrs. Anthony J. Russo, bibliographers.
        Bridges, Covered Timber:
        Frederick Polley, 
            Indianapolis
          , chairman; Eugene R. Bock, Anderson; Wylie J. Daniels, Richard Lieber, Richard C.
                    Smith, 
            Indianapolis
          ; Melvin L. Davies, 
            Shelbyville
          ; Delbert Kay, 
            Milwaukee
          , Wis.; Robert B. Yule, Bala-Cynwyd, Pa.
        Buildings, Sites and Markers, Historic:
        John P. Goodwin, 
            Brookville
          , chairman; Mrs. E. B. Ball, 
            Muncie
          ; R. E. Banta, 
            Crawfordsville
          ; Mabel Brewer, New 
            Lebanon
          ; Herbert W. Foltz, 
            Indianapolis
          ; Harry Johnson, 
            Valparaiso
          ; Julie Le Clerc 
            Knox, Vevay
          ; Lorenz G. Schumm, 
            La Porte
          ; Francis 
            Van
           Natter, 
            Vincennes
          ; Louis A. Warren, 
            Fort Wayne
          .
        Cemeteries and Churches, Pioneer:
        Harry O. Garman, 
            Indianapolis
          , chairman; one member or more from each county.
        College:
        Roy M. Robbins, 
            Butler
           University, chairman; Robert La Follette, Ball State Teachers College; W. W. Carson,
                    DePauw University; Heber Walker, 
            Evansville
           College; William C. Dennis, Earlham College; John F. Cady, 
            Franklin
           College; Willard H. Smith, 
            Goshen
           College; John J. Haramy, Indiana Central College; Waldo F. 
          
            Mitchell
          , Indiana State Teachers College; Albert L. Kohlmeier, Indiana University; Andrew W.
                    Cordier, 
            Manchester
           College; Rev. Robert Gorman, 
            St. Mary-of-the-Woods
           College; Rev. Cyril Gaul, O.S.B., St. Meinrad Seminary; Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, Notre
                    Dame University ; Louis M. Sears, Purdue University; George Oborn, Taylor University; Walter A.
                    Davis, 
            Vincennes
           University; Theodore G. Gronert, 
            Wabash
           College; Rev. Charles H. Metzger, West Baden College.
        Conference, Indiana History, Dec. 10–11:
        Ward Biddle, 
            Bloomington
          , chairman; Harold F. Brigham, 
            Indianapolis
          ; (acting with committee of Society of Indiana Pioneers).
        Folklore:
        Stith Thompson, 
            Bloomington
          , chairman; Margaret Sweeney, 
            Jeffersonville
          ; Dr. R. W. Terhune, 
            Martinsville
          ; Nora M. Thomas, 
            Indianapolis
          ; Mrs. Erminie Voegelin, 
            Bloomington
          .
        Genealogy:
        Dorothy Riker, 
            Indianapolis
          , chairman; Mrs. Henry C. Atkins, Clarence A. Cook, Caroline Dunn, Mrs. Lucia Macbeth,
                    Anna Poucher, Mrs. Irene Strieby, 
            Indianapolis
          ; Mrs. Roscoe O'Byrne, 
            Franklin
          ; Hugh T. Miller, 
            Columbus
          ; Mrs. Allen F. Joseph, 
            Jasper
          ; Mrs. Harvey Morris, 
            Salem
          ; Mrs. Grace Osterhus, 
            South Bend
          .
        Gifts and Bequests:
        Louis B. Ewbank, 
            Indianapolis
          , chairman; Earl B. Barnes, Joseph J. Daniels, Fred C. Gause, Emsley W. Johnson, James
                    W. Noel, Curtis G. Shake, Grier M. Shotwell, 
            Indianapolis
          ; Joseph H. Iglehart, 
            Evansville
          .
        Indiana History Teachers Association, Officers:
        Max P. Allen, U. S. Naval Training School, Indiana University, 
            Bloomington
          , president; John F. Cady, 
            Franklin
           College, vice-president; Minnie Lloyd, Short-ridge High School, 
            Indianapolis
          , secretary-treasurer. Executive committee: Louis M. Sears, Purdue University, 
            Lafayette
          ; Oscar O. Winther, Indiana University, 
            Bloomington
          ; Edith Hinman, 
            Frankfort
           High School; L. Talbert Buck, Bosse High School, 
            Evansville
          .
        Indiana Magazine of History, Editorial Committee:
        Albert L. Kohlmeier, 
            Bloomington
          ; James A. Woodburn, 
            Ann Arbor
          , Mich.; Christopher B. Coleman, 
            Indianapolis
          .
        
        Junior Historical Society Organizations:
        Richard Simons, 
            Marion
          , chairman; James Keenan, 
            Washington
           High School, 
            Indianapolis
          ; Jean Weisbecker, 
            Aurora
          .
        Lecture Series:
        J. W. Fesler, 
            Indianapolis
          , chairman; Mrs. John K. Goodwin, 
            Franklin
           L. Burdette, 
            Indianapolis
          .
        Library (William Henry Smith Memorial):
        Benjamin D. Hitz, 
            Indianapolis
          , chairman; Lee Burns, Perry W. Lesh, J. K. Lilly, Jr., 
            Indianapolis
          ; Frederick D. Rose, 
            Muncie
          . Caroline Dunn, librarian.
        Membership:
        Alex Vonnegut, 
            Indianapolis
          , chairman; Mrs. Marguerite Anderson, Irma Bachman, Minnie Lloyd, Ben H. Riker, 
            Indianapolis
          ; Robert G. Bradshaw, 
            Delphi
          ; D. W. Snepp, 
            Evansville
          ; Louis A. Warren, 
            Fort Wayne
          ; Willard H. Smith, 
            Goshen
          ; Cornelius O'Brien, 
            Lawrenceburg
          .
        Mills, Early Water-Power:
        Denzil Doggett, 
            Indianapolis
          , chairman; Edgar H. Evans, Frederick Polley, Richard C. Smith, 
            Indianapolis
          ; Arthur G. McMurray, Edinburg; Eugene S. Wierbach, 
            Muncie
          ; Dr. William M. Reser, 
            Lafayette
          .
        Prehistory and Indian History:
        Eli Lilly, 
            Indianapolis
          , chairman; Arthur B. Carr, Caroline Dunn, William R. Teel, Gayle Thornbrough, C. O.
                    Warnock, Paul W. Weer, 
            Indianapolis
          ; E. Y. Guernsey, 
            Bedford
          ; C. F. Voegelin, 
            Bloomington
          ; Glenn A. Black, 
            Newburgh
          ; Otho Winger, North 
            Manchester
          ; Hal C. Phelps, 
            Peru
          . Glenn A. Black, 
            Newburgh
          , field director.
        Publications:
        Theodore G. Gronert, 
            Crawfordsville
          , chairman; Clarence Efroymson, 
            Indianapolis
           and 
            Washington, D.C.
          ; Mrs. Paul Robertson, 
            Indianapolis
          . Gayle Thornbrough, editor.
        River Steamboats:
        W. Hurley Ashby, 
            Indianapolis
          , chairman; Mrs. Frederic Krull, 
            Indianapolis
          ; George W. Blair, 
            Mishawaka
          .
        State Trees and Roadside Planting:
        John S. Wright, 
            Indianapolis
          , chairman; Edgar W. Olive, Irving Williams, 
            Indianapolis
          ; Evelyn M. Craig, 
            Vevay
          ; Kate B. Hay, Fowler; A. R. Bechtel, 
            Crawfordsville
          .
      
      
      
        Documents
        SOURCES OF INDIANA'S FIRST CONSTITUTION
        JOHN D. BARNHART
        A large part of the first constitution of the state of Indiana was copied from earlier constitutions.
                    The original portions constitute less than ten per cent of the entire document. The process of
                    writing the Indiana constitution, however, was not the simple process of copying the constitutional
                    law of another state. Nor were entire articles drawn from a single constitution as a general rule.
                    The process was a selective one. Apparently the members of the convention had before them the
                    constitutional law of the nation and of the states then in existence. They seem to have searched
                    through these documents to find the sections which embodied the provisions they considered suitable
                    for the government of the new state. Occasionally they wrote a new section when a suitable one was
                    not found. There is no reason to suppose that they were afraid of new ideas.
        The selective process resulted in a more democratic state government. This democratic tendency was
                    revealed in the absence of property qualifications, the extension of the franchise to adult white
                    males, representation proportioned to numbers, the prohibition of slavery and indentured servitude,
                    the election of militia officers, and the provision for a state-wide system of education, reaching
                    from township schools to a state university equally open to all, without tuition.
        It is important to note that the constitutions of 
            Ohio
          , 
            Kentucky
          , 
            Pennsylvania
          , and 
            Tennessee
          , which were closely related to one another, contained most of the sections which were
                    taken over by Indiana. This is interesting evidence that the states of the Ohio
                    Valley at this time had much in common and that 
            Pennsylvania

           had made a considerable contribution to them. To some degree this relationship is a
                    measure of the influence of the southern migration into the Old Northwest and an indication of the
                    characteristics of that influence.1
        
        
          
            1 This comparison of the Indiana constitution of 1816 with the earlier
                        constitutions can be better evaluated by studying the migration of Southerners into the Old
                        Northwest. The following articles provide the background which this brief introduction can
                        suggest only in the briefest form: "The Southern Influence in the Formation of 
        
        
        The following comparison of the Indiana constitution with similar provisions of other constitutions
                    affords ample opportunity to check these conclusions and, perhaps, to determine other interesting
                    facts about the establishment of state government in the Hoosier commonwealth.

        The text of the constitution of Indiana was taken from the manuscript copy in the Indiana State
                    Library, Indiana History Division. A second manuscript copy is in the William Henry Smith Memorial
                    Library of the Indiana Historical Society. A suitable printed copy is in Charles Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana (3 vols., Indiana Historical
                        Collections, 
            Indianapolis
          , 1916, 1930), I, 83–125. In this copy liberties were taken in capitalization
                    and punctuation. In respect to capitalization is might be said that it is often impossible to tell
                    whether the copyist intended a capital or a small letter.
        The texts of the other constitutions are taken from Francis N. Thorpe (comp.), Federal
                        and State Constitutions…and Other Organic Laws…(7 vols., 
            Washington
          , 1909).
        The constitutions are arranged with the similar portions in parallel position to render comparison as
                    easy as possible. Wherever the right-hand column is left blank, a similar provision was not found in
                    the earlier constitutions. It is important to realize that the comparison is that of words, not
                    meaning, the purpose being to show what parts of other constitutions were copied and not what states
                    had similar governmental agencies or constitutional provisions. If the description of an agency was
                    very differently expressed in the earlier constitutions, notice was not taken of it.
        
          Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIII (1937),
                        261–76; "The Southern Influence in the Formation of 
              Ohio
            ," Journal of Southern History (
              Baton Rouge
            , 
              Louisiana
            , 1935-), III (1937), 28–42; "The Southern Influence in the
                        Formation of 
              Illinois
            ," Journal of the 
                Illinois
               State Historical Society (
              Springfield, Illinois
            ,
                        1908- ), XXXII (1939), 358–78; "Frontiersmen and Planters in the Formation
                        of 
              Kentucky
            ," Journal of Southern History, VII (1941),
                        19–36; "Sources of Southern Migration into the Old Northwest," 
              Mississippi Valley Historical Review (Cedar Rapids, 
              Iowa

            , 1915- ), XXII (1935–1936), 49–62; "The Southern
                        Element in the Leadership of the Old Northwest," Journal of Southern
                            History, I (1935), 186–97; and "Southern Contributions to the
                        Social Order of the Old Northwest," 
              
                North Carolina
               Historical Review (Raleigh, 
              North Carolina
            , 1924- ), XVII (1940), 237–48.
        
        
        
          The Indiana Constitution of 1816
          Preamble
          We the Representatives of the people of the Territory of Indiana, in Convention met, at Corydon,
                        on Monday the tenth day of June in the year of our Lord eighteen hundred and sixteen, and of the
                        Independence of the 
              United States
             the Fortieth, having the right of admission into the General Government as a member
                        of the Union, consistent with the Constitution of the 
              United States
            , the ordinance of Congress of one thousand seven hundred and eighty seven, and the
                        law of Congress, entitled "An act to enable the people of the Indiana Territory
          to form a constitution and State Government, and for the admission of such State into the Union,
                        on an equal footing with the original States"
          in order to establish Justice, promote the welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to
                        ourselves and our posterity; do ordain and establish the following constitution or form of
                        Government, and do mutually agree with each other to form ourselves into a free and Independent
                        State, by the name of the State of Indiana.
          Article One
          1. That the general, great and essential principles of liberty and free Government may be
                        recognized and unalterably established; we declare,
        
        
          Sources of the Indiana Constitution of 1816
          Preamble
          We, the people of the eastern division of the territory of 
              United States
             northwest of the river 
              Ohio
            ,
          having the right of admission into the General Government as a member of the Union, consistent
                        with the Constitution of the 
              United States
            , the ordinance of Congress of one thousand seven hundred and eighty-seven, and the
                        law of Congress entitled "An act to enable the people of the eastern division of the
                        territory of the 
              United States
             northwest of the river 
              Ohio
             to form a constitution and State government, and for the admission of such State
                        into the Union on an equal footing with the original States, and for other purposes,"
                        in order to establish justice, promote the welfare and secure the blessings of liberty to
                        ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish the following constitution or form of
                        government, and do mutually agree with each other to form ourselves into a free and independent
                        State by the name of the State of 
              Ohio
            . (
              Ohio
            , 1802, Preamble).
          That the general, great, and essential principles of liberty and free government may be
                        recognized and unalterably established, we declare—….(Pa., 1790, IX). See
                        also 
              Ohio
            , 1802, VIII.
        
        
        
          That all men are born equally free and independent, and have certain natural, inherent, and
                        unalienable rights'; among which are the enjoying and defending life and liberty, and
                        of acquiring, possessing, and protecting property and pursuing and obtaining happiness and
                        safety.
          2. That all power is inherent in the people; and all free Governments are founded on their
                        authority, and instituted for their peace, safety, and happiness. For the advancement of these
                        ends, they have at all times an unalienable and indefeasible right to alter, or reform their
                        Government in such manner as they may think proper.
          3. That all men have a natural and indefeasible right to worship Almighty God, according to the
                        dictates of their own consciences: That no man shall be compelled to attend, erect, or support
                        any place of worship or to maintain any ministry against his consent: That no human, authority
                        can, in any case whatever, control or interfere with the rights of conscience; and that no
                        preference shall ever be given by law to any religious Societies, or modes of worship; and no
                        religious test shall be required as a qualification to any office of trust or profit.
        
        
          That all men are born equally free and independent, and have certain natural, inherent, and
                        unalienable rights, amongst which are the enjoying and defending life and liberty, acquiring,
                        possessing, and protecting property, and pursuing and obtaining happiness and safety….(
              Ohio
            , 1802, VIII, 1; Vt., 1793, I, 1; Vt., 1786, I, 1; Vt., 1777, I, 1; Pa., 1776, 1).
          That all power is inherent in the people, and all free governments are founded on their
                        authority, and instituted for their peace, safety, and happiness. For the advancement of those
                        ends, they have at all times an unalienable and indefeasible right to alter, reform, or abolish
                        their government, in such manner as they may think proper. (Ky., 1799, X, 2; Tenn., 1796, XI, 1;
                        Ky., 1792, XII, 2; Pa., 1790, IX, 2). See also Va., 1776, 2 and 3.
          That all men have a natural and indefeasible right to worship Almighty God according to the
                        dictates of their own consciences; that no man of right can be compelled to attend, erect, or
                        support any place of worship, or to maintain any ministry against his consent; that no human
                        authority can in any case whatever control or interfere with the rights of conscience; and that
                        no preference shall ever be given by law to any religous societies or modes of worship. (Ky.,
                        1792, XII, 3) —– and no religious test shall be required, as a
                        qualification to any office of trust or profit —– (
              Ohio
            , 1802, VIII, 3). See also Ky., 1799, X, 3; Tenn.,
        
        
        
          4. That elections shall be free and equal.
          5. That in all civil cases, when the value in controversy shall exceed the sum of twenty dollars,
                        and in all criminal cases, except in petit misdemeanors which shall be punished by fine only,
                        not exceeding three dollars, in such manner as the Legislature may prescribe by law; the right
                        of trial by Jury shall remain inviolate.
          6. That no power of suspending the operation of the laws, shall be exercised, except by the
                        Legislature, or its authority.
          7. That no man's particular services shall be demanded, or property taken, or applied to
                        public use, without the consent of his representatives, or without a just compensation being
                        made therefor.
          8. The rights of the people, to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against
                        unreasonable searches, and seizures, shall not be violated: and no warrant shall issue, but upon
                        probable cause, supported by oath, or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be
                        searched, and the persons or things to be seized.
          9. That the printing presses shall be free to every person, who undertakes to examine the
                        proceedings of the Legislature,
        
        
          1796, XI, 3; Pa., 1790, IX, 3.
          That elections shall be free and equal. (Tenn., 1796, XI, 5; Pa., 1790,-IX, 5). See also Ky.,
                        1799, X, 5; Ky., 1792, XII, 5; Del., 1792, I, 3.
          That no power of suspending laws shall be exercised, unless by the legislature or its authority.
                        (Ky., 1799, X, 14; Ky., 1792, XII, 14). See also La., 1812, VI, 17; 
              Ohio
            , 1802, VIII, 9; Del., 1792, I, 10; Pa., 1790, IX, 12.
          That no man's particular services shall be demanded or property taken, or applied to
                        public use, without the consent of his representatives, or without just compensation being made
                        therefor. (Tenn., 1796, XI, 21).
          The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against
                        unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated: and no warrant shall issue, but upon
                        probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be
                        searched, and the persons or things to be seized. (U. S. Amendment IV).
          That the printing-presses shall be free to every person who undertakes to examine the proceedings
                        of the legislature,
        
        
        
          or any branch of Government; and no law shall ever be made to restrain the right thereof. The
                        free communication of thoughts, and opinions, is one of the invaluable rights of man; and every
                        Citizen may freely Speak, write, and print on any Subject, being responsible for the abuse of
                        that liberty.
          10. In prosecutions for the publication of papers investigating the Official Conduct of Officers,
                        or men in a public capacity, or where the matter published is proper for the public information,
                        the truth thereof may be given in evidence; and in all indictments for libels, the Jury shall
                        have a right to determine the law and the facts, under the direction of the Court, as in other
                        cases.
          11. That all Courts shall be open, and every person, for an injury done him, in his lands, goods,
                        person, or reputation shall have remedy by the due course of law; and right and justice
                        administered without denial or delay.
          12. That no person arrested, or confined in Jail, shall be treated with unnecessary rigor, or be
                        put to answer any Criminal Charge, but by presentment Indictment or impeachment.
        
        
          or any branch of government, and no law shall ever be made to restrain the right thereof. The
                        free communication of thoughts and opinions is one of the invaluable rights of man; and every
                        citizen may freely speak, write, and print on any subject, being responsible for the abuse of
                        that liberty….(Pa., 1790, IX, 7). See also La., 1812, VI, 21; 
              Ohio
            , 1802, VIII, 6; Ky., 1799, X, 7; Tenn., 1796, XI, 19; Ky., 1792, XII, 7.
          ….In prosecutions for the publication of papers investigating the official conduct of
                        officers or men in a public capacity, or where the matter published is proper for the public
                        information, the truth thereof may be given in evidence; and in all indictments for libels the
                        jury shall have a right to determine the law and the facts, under the direction of the court, as
                        in other cases. (Ky., 1799, X, 8; Ky., 1792, XII, 8; Pa., 1790, IX, 7). See also 
              Ohio
            , 1802, VIII, 6; Del., 1792, I, 5.
          That all courts shall be open, and every person, for an injury done him in his lands, goods,
                        person, or reputation shall have remedy by the due course of law, and right and justice
                        administered without denial or delay. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, VIII, 7). See also Ky., 1799, X, 13; Tenn., 1796, XI, 17; Ky., 1792, XII,
                        13; Pa., 1790, IX, 11.
          That no person arrested or confined in jail shall be treated with unnecessary rigor, or be put to
                        answer any criminal charge, but by presentment, indictment, or impeachment. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, VIII, 10).
        
        
        
          13. That in all Criminal prosecutions, the accused hath a right to be heard by himself and
                        counsel, to demand the nature and cause of the accusation against him, and to have a copy
                        thereof; to meet the witnesses face to face, to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses
                        in his favour, and in prosecutions by indictment, or presentment a Speedy public trial by an
                        impartial Jury of the County or district in which the offence shall have been committed; and
                        shall not be compelled to give evidence against himself nor shall be twice put in jeopardy for
                        the same offence.
          14. That all persons shall be bailable by sufficient sureties, unless for capital offences, when
                        the proof is evident, or the presumption great; and the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus
                        shall not be suspended, unless, in case of rebellion or invasion, the public safety may require
                        it.
          15. Excessive bail shall not be required, excessive fines shall not be imposed, nor cruel and
                        unusual punishments inflicted.
          16. All penalties shall be
        
        
          That in all criminal prosecutions the accused hath a right to be heard by himself and his
                        counsel, to demand the nature and cause of the accusation against him, and to have a copy
                        thereof; to meet the witnesses face to face; to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses
                        in his favor; and, in prosecutions by indictment or presentment, a speedy public trial by an
                        impartial jury of the county or district in which the offence shall have been committed, and
                        shall not be compelled to give evidence against himself; nor shall be twice put in jeopardy for
                        the same offence. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, VIII, 11). See also La., 1812, VI, 18; Ky., 1799, X, 10; Tenn., 1796, XI, 9;
                        Ky., 1792, XII, 10; Pa., 1790, IX, 9.

          That all persons shall be bailable by sufficient sureties, unless for capital offences, where the
                        proof is evident or the presumption great; and the privilege of the writ of habeas
                            corpus shall not be suspended, unless when, in case of rebellion or invasion, the
                        public safety may require it. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, VIII, 12). See also La., 1812, VI, 19; Ky., 1799, IX, 16; Tenn., 1796, XI,
                        15; Ky., 1792, XII, 16; Pa., 1790, IX, 14.
          Excessive bail shall not be required, excessive fines shall not be imposed, nor cruel and unusual
                        punishments inflicted. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, VIII, 13). See also Ky., 1799, X, 15; Tenn., 1796, XI, 16; Ky., 1792, XII,
                        15; Del., 1792, I, 11; S. C., 1790, IX, 4; Pa., 1790, IX, 13; N. C., 1776, X; Md., 1776, XXII;
                        Va., 1776, 9.
          All penalties shall be
        
        
        
          proportioned to the nature of the offence.
          17. The person of a debtor, where there is not strong presumption of fraud, shall not be
                        continued in prison, after delivering up his estate for the benefit of his creditor, or
                        creditors, in such manner as shall be prescribed by law.
          18. No ex post facto law, nor any law impairing the validity of contracts, shall ever be made,
                        and no conviction shall work corruption of blood, nor forfeiture of estate.
          19. That the people have a right to assemble together in a peaceable manner, to consult for their
                        Common good, to instruct their representatives, and to apply to the Legislature for redress of
                        grievances.
          20. That the people have a right to bear arms for the defence of themselves, and the state;
          and that the military shall be kept in strict
        
        
          proportioned to the nature of the offence….(
              Ohio
            , 1802, VIII, 14). See also N. H., 1792, XVIII; N. H., 1784, XVIII.
          The person of a debtor, where there is not strong presumption of fraud, shall not be continued in
                        prison after delivering up his estate for the benefit of his creditor or creditors, in such
                        manner as shall be prescribed by law. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, VIII, 15; Tenn., 1796, XI, 18). See also Ky., 1799, X, 17; Ga., 1798, IV, 7;
                        Vt., 1793, II, 33; Ky., 1792, XII, 17; Pa., 1790, IX, 16; Vt., 1786, II, 30; Vt., 1777, II, 25;
                        N. C., 1776, XXXIX; Pa., 1776, XXVIII.
          No ex post facto law, nor any law impairing the validity of contracts, shall
                        ever be made, and no conviction shall work corruption of blood, or forfeiture of estate. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, VIII, 16).
          That the people have a right to assemble together in a peaceable manner, to consult for their
                        common good, to instruct their representatives, and to apply to the legislature for redress of
                        grievances. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, VIII, 19). See also Ky., 1799, X, 22; Tenn., 1796, XI, 22; Vt., 1793, 20; N.
                        H., 1792, XXXIII; Ky., 1792, XII, 12; Del., 1792, I, 16; Pa., 1790, IX, 20; Vt., 1786, I, 22; N.
                        H., 1784, 32; Mass., 1780, 19; Vt., 1777, XVIII; N. C., 1776, XVIII; Pa., 1776, XVI.
          That the people have a right to bear arms for the defence of themselves and the State; and as
                        standing armies, in time of peace, are dangerous to liberty, they shall not be kept up, and that
                        the military shall be kept under strict
        
        
        
          subordination to the civil power.
          21. That no soldier shall, in time of peace, be quartered in any house without the consent of the
                        owner, nor in time of war, but in a manner to be prescribed by law.
          22. That the Legislature shall not grant any title of nobility, or hereditary distinctions, nor
                        create any office, the appointment to which, shall be for a longer term than good behaviour.
          23. That emigration from the State shall not be prohibited.
          24. To guard against any encroachments on the rights herein retained, we declare, that every
                        thing in this article, is excepted out of the general powers of Government, and shall forever
                        remain inviolable.
          Article Two
          1. The powers of Government of Indiana shall be divided into three distinct departments, and each
                        of them be confided to a Separate body of Magis-
        
        
          subordination to the civil power. (Ohio, 1802, VIII, 20). See also Ky., 1799, X, 23-24; Vt.,
                        1793, 16; Ky., 1792, XII, 23-24; Pa., 1790, IX, 21-22; Vt., 1786, I, 18; Vt., 1777, XV; N. C.,
                        1776, XVII; Pa., 1776, XIII.
          That no soldier shall, in time of peace, be quartered in any house without the consent of the
                        owner, nor in time of war, but in a manner to be prescribed by law. (Ky., 1799, X, 25; Ky.,
                        1792, XII, 25; Pa., 1790, IX, 23). See also Ohio, 1802, VIII, 22; Tenn., 1796, XI, 27.
          That the legislature shall not grant any title of nobility or hereditary distinction, nor create
                        any office the appointment to which shall be for a longer term than during good behavior. (Ky.,
                        1799, X, 26; Ky., 1792, XII, 6; Pa., 1790, IX, 24). See also S. C., 1790, IX, 5.
          That emigration from this State shall not be prohibited. (Ky., 1799, X, 27; Ky., 1792, XII, 27;
                        Pa., 1790, XI, 25). See also La., 1812, VI, 22; Vt., 1793, 19; Vt., 1786, I, 21; Vt., 1777,
                        XVII; Pa., 1776, XV.
          To guard against transgressions of the high powers which we have delegated, we declare, that
                        everything in this article is excepted out of the general powers of government, and shall
                        forever remain inviolate. (Pa., 1790, IX, 26). See also Ky., 1799, X, 28; Ky., 1792, XII, 28.
          The powers of government shall be divided into three distinct departments, each of them to be
                        confided to a separate body of magis-
        
        
        
          tracy, to wit; those which are Legislative to one, those which are Executive to another, and
                        those which are Judiciary to another: and no person or collection of persons, being of one of
                        those departments, shall exercise any power properly attached to either of the others, except in
                        the instances herein expressly permitted.
          Article Three
          1. The Legislative authority of this State, shall be vested in a general Assembly; which shall
                        consist of a Senate, and house of Representatives, both to be elected by the people.
          2. The General Assembly may, within two years after their first meeting, and shall, in the year
                        eighteen hundred and twenty, and every subsequent term of five years, cause an enumeration to be
                        made, of all the white male inhabitants above the age of twenty one years. The
          number of Representatives shall, at the several periods of making such enumeration, be fixed by
                        the General Assembly, and apportioned among the several counties, according to the number of
                        white male inhabitants, above twenty one years of age in each; and shall never be less than
                        twenty five, nor greater than thirty six, until the number of white male inhabitants above
                        twenty one years of age, shall be twenty two thousand; and after that event, at such ratio, that
                        the whole number of Representatives shall never be less than thirty six, nor exceed one
                    hundred,
        
        
          tracy, to wit, those which are legislative to one, those which are executive to another, and
                        those which are judiciary to another. No person, or collection of persons, being of one of these
                        departments, shall exercise any power properly belonging to either of the others, except in the
                        instances hereinafter expressly permitted. (Ky., 1792, I, 1–2). See also Ky., 1799,
                        I, 1–2.
          The legislative authority of this State shall be vested in a general assembly, which shall
                        consist of a senate and house of representatives, both to be elected by the people. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 1).
          Within one year after the first meeting of the general assembly,
          and within every subsequent term of four years, an enumeration of all the white male inhabitants
                        above twenty-one years of age shall be made, in such manner as shall be directed by law. The
                        number of representatives shall, at the several periods of making such enumeration, be fixed by
                        the legislature, and apportioned among the several counties according to the number of white
                        male inhabitants above twenty-one years of age in each; and shall never be less than
                        twenty-four, nor greater than thirty-six, until the number of white male inhabitants of above
                        twenty-one years of age shall be twenty-two thousand; and after that event, at such ratio that
                        the whole number of representatives shall never be less than thirty-six, nor exceed seventy-two. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 2).
        
        
        
          3. The Representatives shall be chosen annually, by the qualified electors of each County
                        respectively, on the first Monday of August.
          4. No person shall be a Representative, unless he shall have attained the age of twenty one
                        years, and shall be a Citizen of the 
              United States
            , and an inhabitant of this state, and shall also have resided within the limits of
                        the County, in which he shall be chosen, one year next preceding his election; if the County
                        shall have been so long erected, but if not, then within the limits of the County or Counties
                        out of which it shall have been taken; unless he shall have been absent on the public business
                        of the 
              United States
            , or of this state and shall have paid a State or County tax.
          5. The Senators shall be chosen for three years, on the first Monday in August, by the qualified
                        voters for Representatives; and on their being convened, in Consequence of the first election,
                        they shall be divided by lot, from their respective Counties, or districts, as near as can be,
                        in to three classes; the seats of the senators of the first class shall be vacated at the
                        expiration of the first year; and the second class, at the expiration of the second year; and of
                        the third class, at the expiration of the third year; so that one third thereof, as near as
                        possible, may be annually chosen forever thereafter.
        
        
          The representatives shall be chosen annually, by the qualified electors of each county
                        respectively, on the first Tuesday in May; but the several elections may be continued for three
                        days, if, in the opinion of the presiding officer or officers, it shall be necessary, and no
                        longer. (Ky., 1792, I, 4). See also 
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 3.
          No person shall be a representative who shall not have attained the age of twenty-five years, and
                        be a citizen of the 
              United States
             and an inhabitant of this State; shall also have resided within the limits of the
                        county in which he shall be chosen one year next preceding his election,
          unless he shall have been absent on the public business of the 
              United States
             or of this State, and shall have paid a State or county tax. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 4).
          The senators shall be chosen biennially, by
          qualified voters for representatives; and, on their being convened in consequence of the first
                        election, they shall be divided by lot, from their respective counties or districts, as near as
                        can be, into two classes; the seats of the senators of the first class shall be vacated at the
                        expiration of the first year, and of the second class, at the expiration of the second year;
          so that one-half thereof, as near as possible, may be annually chosen forever thereafter.
        
        
        
          6. The number of Senators shall, at the several periods of making the enumeration before
                        mentioned, be fixed by the General Assembly, and apportioned among the several Counties or
                        districts, to be established by law, according to the number of white male inhabitants of the
                        age of twenty one years in each, and shall never be less than one third, nor more than one half
                        of the number of Representatives
          7. No person shall be a Senator, unless he shall have attained the age of twenty five years, and
                        shall be a Citizen of the 
              United States
            , and shall, next preceding the election, have resided two years in the
          state, the last twelve months of which, in the County or district in which he may be elected; if
                        the county or district shall have been so long erected, but if not, then within the limits of
                        the County, or Counties, district or districts, out of which the same shall have been taken;
                        unless he shall have been absent on the public business of the 
              United States
            , or of this State, and shall moreover have paid a State of County tax.
          8. The house of Representatives, when assembled, shall choose a Speaker, and its other officers,
                        and the Senate shall choose its officers, except the president, and each shall be Judges of the
                        qualifications and elections of its members; and sit upon its own adjournments. Two thirds
        
        
          (
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 5).
          The numbers of senators shall, at the several periods of making the enumeration before mentioned,
                        be fixed by the legislature, and apportioned among the several counties or districts to be
                        established by law according to the number of white male inhabitants of the age of twenty-one
                        years in each, and shall never be less than one-third, nor more than one-half, of the number of
                        representatives. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 6).
          No person shall be a senator who has not arrived at the age of thirty years, and is a citizen of
                        the 
              United States
            ; shall
          have resided two years in the county or district immediately preceding the election,
          unless he shall have been absent on the public business of the 
              United States
             or of this State, and shall, moreover, have paid a State or county tax. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 7). See also 
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 6, given supra 6.
          The senate and house of representatives, when assembled, shall each choose a speaker and its
                        other officers,
          be judges of the qualifications and elections of its members, and sit upon its own adjournments;
                        two-thirds
        
        
        
          of each house shall constitute a quorum to do business, but a Smaller number may adjourn from day
                        to day, and compel the attendance of absent members.
          9. Each house shall keep a Journal of its proceedings, and publish them; The yeas and nays of the
                        members, on any question, shall at the request of any two of them, be entered on the Journals.
          10. Any one member of either house,
          shall have liberty to dissent from, and protest against any act or resolution, which he may think
                        injurious to the public, or any individual or individuals, and have the reason of his dissent
                        entered on the Journals.
          11. Each house may determine the rules of its proceedings, punish its members for disorderly
                        behaviour, and, with the concurrence of two thirds, expel a member, but not a second time for
                        the same cause; and shall have all other powers necessary for a branch of the Legislature of a
                        free and independent State.
          12. When vacancies happen in either branch of the General Assembly, the Governor, or the person
                        exercising the power of Governor, shall issue writs of election to fill such vacancies.
          13. Senators and Representatives shall, in all cases except treason, felony, or breach of the
                        peace, be privileged from arrest, during the Session of the General Assembly, and in going to,
                        and returning from the same; and for any Speech or de-
        
        
          of each house shall constitute a quorum to do business; but a smaller number may adjourn from day
                        to day, and compel the attendance of absent members. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 8).
          Each house shall keep a journal of its proceedings, and publish them. The yeas and nays of the
                        members, on any question, shall, at the desire of any two of them, be entered on the journals. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 9).
          Any member of either house of the general assembly shall have liberty to dissent from and protest
                        against any act or resolve which he may think injurious to the public, or any individual,
          and have the reasons of his dissent entered on the journals. (Tenn., 1796, I, 25). See also N.
                        C., 1776, XLV, and 
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 10.
          Each house may determine the rules of its proceedings, punish its members for disorderly
                        behavior, and, with the concurrence of two-thirds, expel a member, but not a second time for the
                        same cause; and shall have all other powers necessary for a branch of the legislature of a free
                        and independent State. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 11).
          When vacancies happen in either house,
          the governor, or the person exercising the power of the governor, shall issue writs of election
                        to fill such vacancies. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 12).
          Senators and representatives shall, in all cases, except treason, felony, or breach of the peace,
                        be privileged from arrest during the session of the general assembly, and in going to and
                        returning from the same; and for any speech or de-
        
        
        
          bate in either house, they shall not be questioned in any other place.
          14. Each house may punish, by imprisonment, during their Session, any person, not a member, who
                        shall be guilty of any disrespect to the house, by any disorderly, or contemptuous behaviour in
                        their presence; provided, such imprisonment shall not, at any one time, exceed twenty four
                        hours.
          15. The doors of each house, and of committees of the whole, shall be kept open, except in such
                        cases as, in the opinion of the House, may require secrecy. Neither house shall, without the
                        consent of the other, adjourn for more than two days, nor to any other place than that in which
                        the two houses shall be sitting.
          16. Bills may originate in either house, but may be altered, amended, or rejected by the other.
          17. Every bill shall be read on three different days in each house, unless, in case of urgency,
                        two thirds of the house, where such bill may be depending, shall deem it expedient to dispense
                        with this rule, and every bill, having passed both houses, shall be signed by the president and
                        Speaker of their respective houses.
          18. The Style of the laws of this State shall be, "Be it enacted by the General Assembly
                        of the State of Indiana."
          19. All bills for raising revenue, Shall originate in the house of Representatives,
        
        
          bate in either house, they shall not be questioned in any other place. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 13; Tenn., 1796, I, 10).

          Each house may punish by imprisonment, during their session, any person, not a member who shall
                        be guilty of disrespect to the house, by any disorderly or contemptuous behavior in their
                        presence: Provided, Such imprisonment shall not, at any one time, exceed
                        twenty-four hours. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 14). See also Tenn., 1796, I, 11.
          The doors of each house, and of committees of the whole, shall be kept open, except in such cases
                        as, in the opinion of the house, require secrecy. Neither house shall, without the consent of
                        the other, adjourn for more than two days, nor to any other place than that in which the two
                        houses shall be sitting. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 15).
          Bills may originate in either house, but may be altered, amended, or rejected by the other. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 16; Tenn., 1796, I, 14).
          Every bill shall be read on three different days in each house, unless, in case of urgency,
                        three-fourths of the house where such bill is so depending shall deem it expedient to dispense
                        with this rule; and every bill having passed both houses shall be signed by the
          speakers of their respective houses. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 17).
          The style of the laws of this State shall be, "Be it enacted by the general
                            assembly of the State of 
                Ohio
              ." (
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 18; Tenn., 1796, I, 17).
          All bills for raising revenue shall originate in the house of representatives,
        
        
        
          but the Senate may amend or reject, as in other bills
          20. No person, holding any office under the authority of the President of the 
              United States
            , or of this State, Militia officers excepted, shall be eligible to a seat in either
                        branch of the General Assembly; unless he resign his office, previous to his election; nor shall
                        any member of either branch of the General Assembly, during the time for which he is elected, be
                        eligible to any office, the appointment of which is vested in the General Assembly: Provided
                        that nothing, in this Constitution, shall be so construed, as to prevent any member of the first
                        Session of the first General Assembly from accepting any office, that is created by this
                        Constitution, or the Constitution of the 
              United States
            , and the salaries of which are established.
          21. No money Shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in consequence of appropriations made by law.
          22. An accurate Statement of the receipts and expenditures of the public money shall be attached
                        to, and published with the laws, at every annual Session of the General Assembly.
          23. The house of Representatives shall have the sole power of impeaching; but a majority of all
                        the members elected must concurr in such impeachment. All impeachments shall be tried by the
                        Senate, and when sitting for that purpose, the senators shall be upon oath or affirmation to do
                        justice according to law and evidence. No person shall be convicted
        
        
          but the senate may propose amendments as in other bills. (Ky., 1792, I, 26; Pa., 1790, I, 20).
          No money shall be drawn from the treasury but in consequence of appropriations made by law. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 21; Tenn., 1796, I, 21; Pa., 1790, I, 21).
          An accurate statement of the receipts and expenditures of the public money shall be attached to
                        and published with the laws annually. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 22).
          The house of representatives shall have the sole power of impeaching, but a majority of all the
                        members
          must concur in an impeachment. All impeachments shall be tried by the senate, and, when sitting
                        for that purpose, the senators shall be upon oath or affirmation to do justice according to law
                        and evidence; no person shall be convicted
        
        
        
          without the concurrence of a majority of all the senators elected.
          24. The Governor, and all civil officers of the State, shall be removed from Office, on
                        impeachment for and conviction of treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors; but
                        Judgment in such cases shall not extend further than removal from office, and disqualification
                        to hold any office of honor, profit, or trust, under this State. The party, whether convicted or
                        acquitted shall, nevertheless, be liable to indictment [,] trial, judgment, and punishment,
                        according to law.
          25. The first session of the General Assembly shall commence on the first monday of November
                        next, and forever after, the General Assembly shall meet on the first monday in December, in
                        every year, and at no other period, unless directed by law, or provided for by this
                        Constitution.
          26. No person, who hereafter may be a collector, or holder of public money, shall have a seat in
                        either house of the General Assembly, until such person shall have accounted for, and paid into
                        the Treasury all sums for which he may be accountable.
          Article Four
          1. The Supreme Executive power of this state shall be vested in a Governor,
          who shall be styled, the Governor of the State of Indiana.
        
        
          without the concurrence of two-thirds of all the senators. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 23).
          The governor, and all other civil officers under this State, shall be liable to
          impeachment for any
          misdemeanor in office; but judgment in such cases shall not extend further than removal from
                        office and disqualification to hold any office of honor, profit, or trust under this State. The
                        party, whether convicted or acquitted, shall, nevertheless, be liable to indictment, trial,
                        judgment, and punishment, according to law. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 24). See also Del., 1792, V, 2.
          The first session of the general assembly shall commence on the first Tuesday of March next; and
                        forever thereafter the general assembly shall meet on the first Monday of December in every
                        year, and at no other period, unless directed by law, or provided for by this constitution. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 25). See also Tenn., 1796, I, 6.
          No person who heretofore hath been, or hereafter may be, a collector or holder of public moneys,
                        shall have a seat in either house of the general assembly until such person shall have accounted
                        for and paid into the treasury all sums for which he may be accountable or liable. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 28; Tenn., 1796, I, 22; N. C., 1776, XXV).
          The supreme executive power of this State shall be vested in a governor. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, II, 1; Tenn., 1796, II, 1)….who shall be styled the Governor of
                        the State of 
              Louisiana
            . (La., 1812, III, 1).
        
        
        
          2. The Governor shall be chosen by the qualified electors, on the first monday in August, at the
                        places where they shall respectively vote for Representatives. The returns of every election for
                        Governor shall be sealed up and transmitted to the seat of Government, directed to the Speaker
                        of the house of Representatives, who shall open and publish them in the presence
          of both houses of the General Assembly: The person having the highest number of votes shall be
                        governor, but if two or more shall be equal, and highest in votes, one of them shall be chosen
                        Governor, by the joint vote of the members of both houses. Contested elections shall be
                        determined by a committee, to be selected from both houses of the General Assembly, and formed
                        and regulated in such manner as shall be directed by law.
          3. The Governor shall hold his office during three years, from and after the third day of the
                        first session of the General Assembly, next ensuing his election, and until a successor shall be
                        chosen and qualified, and shall not be capable of holding it longer than six years in any term
                        of nine years.
          4. He shall be at least thirty years of age, and shall have been a Citizen of the 
              United States
             ten years, and have resided in the State five years next preceeding his Election;
          unless he shall have been absent on the business of the
        
        
          See also Ky., 1799, III, 1.
          The governor shall be chosen on the second Tuesday of October, by the citizens of the
                        commonwealth, at the places where they shall respectively vote for representatives. The returns
                        of every election for governor shall be sealed up, and transmitted to the seat of government,
                        directed to the speaker of the senate,
          who shall open and publish them in the presence of the members of both houses of the legislature.
                        The person having the highest number of votes shall be governor. But if two or more shall be
                        equal and highest in votes, one of them shall be chosen governor by the joint vote of the
                        members of both houses. Contested elections shall be determined by a committee, to be selected
                        from both houses of the legislature, and formed and regulated in such manner as shall be
                        directed by law. (Pa., 1790, II, 2). See also 
              Ohio
            , 1802, II, 2; Tenn., 1796, II, 2.
          The governor shall hold his office during three years from the third Tuesday of December
          next ensuing his election,
          and shall not be capable of holding it longer than nine in any term of twelve years. (Pa., 1790,
                        II, 3).
          ….He shall be at least thirty years of age, and have been a citizen of the 
              United States
             twelve years, and an inhabitant of this State four years next preceding his
                        election. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, II, 3).
          ….unless he shall have been absent on the public business
        
        
        
          State, or of the united States; provided that this shall not disqualify any person from the
                        office of Governor, who shall be a citizen of the 
              United States
            , and shall have resided in the Indiana Territory two years next preceeding the
                        adoption of this Constitution.
          5. No member of Congress, or person holding any office under the 
              United States
            , or this State, shall exercise the office of Governor, or Lieutenant Governor.
          6. The Governor Shall, at Stated times, receive for his services a compensation, which shall
                        neither be increased nor diminished during the term for which he shall have been elected.
          7. He shall be commander in chief of the Army and Navy of this State and of the Militia thereof,
                        except when they shall be called into the service of the 
              United States
            , but he shall not command personally in the field, unless he shall be advised so to
                        do, by a resolution of the General Assembly.
          8. He shall nominate, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, appoint and
                        commission all officers, the appointment of which is not
        
        
          of the 
              United States
             or of this State. (Tenn., 1796, II, 3; Ky., 1792, II, 4; Del., 1792, III, 4; Pa.,
                        1790, II, 4).
          No member of Congress, or person holding any office under the 
              United States
            , or this State, shall exercise the office of Governor. (Ky., 1792, II, 5; Del.,
                        1792, III, 5; Pa., 1790, II, 5). See also 
              Ohio
            , 1802, II, 13; Tenn., 1796, II, 13.
          The governor shall, at stated times, receive for his services a compensation, which shall neither
                        be increased nor diminished during the term for which he shall have been elected. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, II, 6; Ky., 1799, III, 7; La., 1812, III, 7). See also Tenn., 1796, II, 7;
                        Ky., 1792, II, 6; Del., 1792, III, 6; S. C., 1790, II, 10; Pa., 1790, II, 6; Ga., 1789, II, 5;
                        U. S., II, 1.
          He shall be commander in chief of the army and navy of this State, and of the militia thereof
                        except when they shall be called into the service of the 
              United States
            , but he shall not command personally in the field, unless he shall be advised so to
                        do by a resolution of the general assembly. (La., 1812, III, 8). See also 
              Ohio
            , 1802, II, 10; Ky., 1799, III, 8; Tenn., 1796, II, 5; Ky., 1792, II, 7; Del., 1792,
                        II, 7; S. C., 1790, II, 6; Pa., 1790, II, 7.
          He shall nominate, and, by and with the advice and consent of the senate, appoint
          all officers whose offices are established by this
        
        
        
          otherwise directed by this Constitution, and all offices which may be created by the General
                        Assembly, shall be filled in such manner as may be directed by law.
          9. Vacancies that may happen in offices, the appointment of which is vested in the Governor, and
                        Senate, or in the General Assembly, shall be filled by the Governor, during the recess of the
                        General Assembly, by granting Commissions that shall expire at the end of the next session.
          10. He shall have power to remit fines and forfeitures, grant reprieves and pardons, except in
                        cases of impeachments.
          11. He may require information in writing, from the officers in the executive department, upon
                        any subject relating to the duties of their respective offices.
          12. He shall, from time to time, give to the General Assembly information of the affairs of the
                        State, and recommend to their consideration, such measures as he shall deem expedient.
        
        
          constitution or shall be established by law, and whose appointments are not herein otherwise
                        provided for….(Ky., 1799, III, 9; Ky., 1792, II, 8). See also U. S., II, 2.
          The governor shall have power to fill up vacancies that may happen
          during the recess of the senate, by granting commissions, which shall expire at the end of the
                        next session. (Ky., 1799, III, 10; Ky., 1792, II, 9). See also La., 1812, III, 10; U. S., II, 2.
          He shall have power to remit fines and forfeitures, and grant reprieves and pardons, except in
                        cases of impeachment. (Pa., 1790, II, 9). See also Ky., 1799, III, 11; Ky., 1792, II, 20; Del.,
                        1792, III, 9; 
              Ohio
            , 1802, I, 5; Tenn., 1796, II, 6.
          He may require information in writing from the officers in the executive department, upon any
                        subject relating to the duties of their respective offices. (La., 1812, III, 12; Ky., 1799, III,
                        12; Tenn., 1796, II, 8; Ky., 1792, II, 11; Del., 1792, III, 10; Pa., 1790, II, 10). See also 
              Ohio
            , 1802, II, 7; U. S., II, 2.
          He shall from time to time give to the general assembly information of affairs concerning the
                        State, and recommend to their consideration such measures as he shall judge expedient. (Del.,
                        1792, III, 11). See also U. S., II, 3; La., 1812, III, 13; 
              Ohio
            , 1802, II, 4; Ky., 1799, III, 13; Ga., 1798, II, 8; Tenn., 1796, II,
        
        
        
          13. He may, in extraordinary occasions, convene the General Assembly at the seat of Government,
                        or at a different place, if that shall have become, since their last adjournment, dangerous from
                        an enemy, or from contagious disorders, and in case of a disagreement between the two houses
                        with respect to the time of adjournment, adjourn them to such time as he shall think proper, not
                        beyond the time of their next annual Session.
          14. He shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed.
          15. A Lieutenant Governor shall be chosen at every election for Governor, in the same manner,
                        continue in office for the same time, and possess the same qualifications. In voting for
                        Governor, and Lieutenant Governor, the electors shall distinguish whom they vote for as
                        Governor, and whom, as Lieutenant Governor.
          16. He shall, by virtue of his office, be President of the senate, have a right, when in
                        Committee of the whole, to debate and vote on all subjects, and when the senate are equally
                        divided, to give the casting vote.
          17. In case of impeachment of the Governor, his removal from office, death, refusal to qualify,
                        resignation, or absence from the State, the
        
        
          11; Ky., 1792, II, 12; S. C., 1790, II, 12; Pa., 1790, II, 11; Ga., 1789, II, 8.
          He may on extraordinary occasions convene the general assembly at the seat of government, or at a
                        different place, if that should have become, since their last adjournment, dangerous from an
                        enemy or from contagious disorders; and in case of disagreement between the two houses, with
                        respect to the time of adjournment, adjourn them to such time as he shall think proper, not
                        exceeding four months. (Ky., 1799, III, 14). See also La., 1812, III, 14.
          He shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed. (La., 1812, III, 15; Ky., 1799, III, 14;
                        Ky., 1792, II, 14; Del., 1792, III, 13; S. C., 1790, II, 8; Pa., 1790, II, 13). See also Tenn.,
                        1796, II, 10.
          A lieutenant-governor shall be chosen at every election for a governor, in the same manner,
                        continue in office for the same time, and possess the same qualifications. In voting for
                        governor and lieutenant-governor, the electors shall distinguish whom they vote for as governor,
                        and whom as lieutenant-governor. (Ky., 1799, III, 16).
          He shall, by virtue of his office, be speaker of the senate; have a right, when in committee of
                        the whole, to debate and vote on all subjects; and, when the senate are equally divided, to give
                        the casting vote. (Ky., 1799, III, 17).
          In case of the impeachment of the governor, his removal from office, death, refusal to qualify,
                        resignation, or absence from the State, the
        
        
        
          Lieutenant Governor shall exercise all the powers and authority appertaining to the office of
                        Governor, until another be duly qualified, or the Governor absent, or impeached, shall return,
                        or be acquitted.

          18. Whenever the Government shall be administered by the Lieutenant Governor, or he shall be
                        unable to attend as President of the senate, the senate shall elect one of their own members as
                        president for that occasion. And if during the vacancy of the office of Governor, the Lieutenant
                        Governor shall be impeached, removed from office, refuse to qualify, resign, die, or be absent
                        from the State, the President of the Senate pro tem, shall in like manner
                        administer the Government until he shall be superseded by a Governor or Lieutenant Governor. The
                        Lieutenant Governor, while he acts as president of the senate, shall receive, for his services
                        the same Compensation which shall, for the same period, be allowed to the Speaker of the house
                        of Representatives and no more: and during the time he administers the Government, as Governor,
                        shall receive the same compensation which the governor would have received, and been entitled
                        to, had he been employed in the duties of his office, and no more.
          19. The President pro tempore of the Senate, during the time he administers the Government, shall
                        receive in like manner, the same compensation,
        
        
          lieutenant-governor shall exercise all the power and authority appertaining to the office of
                        governor, until another be duly qualified, or the governor absent or impeached shall return or
                        be acquitted. (Ky., 1799, III, 18). See also S. C., 1790, II, 5; Mass., 1780, II, II, 3; N. Y.,
                        1777, XX.
          Whenever the government shall be administered by the lieutenant-governor, or he shall be unable
                        to attend as speaker of the senate, the senators shall elect one of their own members as
                        speaker, for that occasion. And if, during the vacancy of the office of governor, the
                        lieutenant-governor shall be impeached, removed from office, refuse to qualify, resign, die, or
                        be absent from the State, the speaker of the senate shall, in like manner, administer the
                        government.
          The lieutenant-governor, while he acts as speaker to the senate, shall receive for his services
                        the same compensation which shall for the same period be allowed to the speaker of the house of
                        representatives, and no more; and during the time he administers the government as governor,
                        shall receive the same compensation which the governor would have received and been entitled to
                        had he been employed in the duties of his office. (Ky., 1799, III, 19–20). See also
                        N. Y., 1777, XXI.
          The speaker pro tempore of the senate, during the time he administers the
                        government, shall receive in like manner the same compensation
        
        
        
          which the Governor would have received, had he been employed in the duties of his office, and no
                        more.
          20. If the Lieutenant Governor shall be called upon to administer the Government, and shall,
                        while in such administration, resign, die, or be absent from the State, during the recess of the
                        General Assembly, it shall be the duty of the Secretary of State for the time being, to convene
                        the Senate for the purpose of choosing a president pro tempore.
          21. A Secretary of State shall be chosen by the joint ballot of both houses of the General
                        Assembly, and be commissioned by the Governor for four years, or until a new Secretary be chosen
                        and qualified. He shall keep a fair register, and attest all the official acts and proceedings
                        of the Governor, and shall, when required, lay the same and all papers, minutes, and vouchers
                        relative thereto, before either house of the General Assembly, and shall perform such other
                        duties as may be enjoined him by law.
          22. Every bill, which shall have passed both houses of the General Assembly, shall be presented
                        to the Governor: if he approve, he shall sign it; but if not, he shall return it with his
                        objections, to the house in which it shall have originated, who shall enter the objections at
                        large upon
        
        
          which the governor would have received had he been employed in the duties of his office. (Ky.,
                        1799, III, 21). See also La., 1812, III, 18.
          If the lieutenant-governor shall be called upon to administer the government, and shall, while in
                        such administration, resign, die, or be absent from the State during the recess of the general
                        assembly, it shall be the duty of the secretary for the time being to convene the senate for the
                        purpose of choosing a speaker. (Ky., 1799, III, 22).
          A secretary shall be appointed and commissioned during the term for which the governor shall have
                        been elected, if he shall so long behave himself well.
          He shall keep a fair register, and attest all the official acts and proceedings of the governor,
                        and shall, when required, lay the same, and all papers, minutes, and vouchers, relative thereto,
                        before either house of the general assembly, and shall perform such other duties as may be
                        enjoined him by law. (Ky., 1799, III, 24). See also La., 1812, III, 19; 
              Ohio
            , 1802, II, 16; Tenn., 1796, II, 7; Ky., 1792, II, 17; Del., 1792, III, 15; Pa.,
                        1790, II, 15.
          Every bill which shall have passed both houses
          shall be presented to the governor; if he approve, he shall sign it, but if not, he shall return
                        it, with his objections, to the house in which it shall have originated, who shall enter the
                        objections at large upon
        
        
        
          their Journals and proceed to reconsider it; if after such reconsideration, a majority of all the
                        members elected to that house shall agree to pass the bill, it shall be sent, with the
                        objections, to the other house, by which it shall like wise be reconsidered, and if approved by
                        a majority of all the members elected to that house, it shall be a law: but, in such cases, the
                        votes of both houses shall be determined by yeas and nays, and the names of the persons voting
                        for, and against the bill, shall be entered on the Journals of each house respectively. If any
                        bill shall not be returned by the Governor, within five days (Sundays excepted) after it shall
                        have been presented to him, it shall be a law, in like manner as if he had signed it: unless the
                        General
          adjournment prevents its return; in which case it shall be a law, unless sent back within three
                        days after their next meeting.
          23. Every resolution, to which the concurrence of both houses may be necessary,
          shall be presented to the Governor, and before it shall take effect, be approved by him, or being
                        disapproved, shall be repassed by a majority of all the members elected to both houses,
                        according to the rules and limitations prescribed in case of a bill.
        
        
          the journal, and proceed to reconsider it; if, after such reconsideration, a majority of all the
                        members elected to that house shall agree to pass the bill, it shall be sent, with the
                        objections, to the other house, by which it shall be likewise considered, and if approved by a
                        majority of all the members elected to that house, it shall be a law; but in such cases the
                        votes of both houses shall be determined by yeas and nays, and the
          persons voting for and against the bill shall be entered on the journal of each house
                        respectively. If any bill shall not be returned by the governor within ten days (Sundays
                        excepted) after it shall have been presented to him, it shall be a law in like manner as if he
                        had signed it, unless the general assembly by their adjournment prevent its return; in which
                        case it shall be a law, unless sent back within three days after their next meeting. (Ky., 1799,
                        III, 25). See also Ga., 1798, II, 10; N. H., 1792, XLIV; Ky., 1792, I, 28; Pa., 1790, I, 22;
                        Ga., 1789, II, 10; Mass., 1780, I, I, II; U. S., I, 7.
          Every order, resolution, or vote to which the concurrence of both houses may be necessary, except
                        on a question of adjournment, shall be presented to the governor, and, before it shall take
                        effect, be approved by him; or, being disapproved, shall be repassed, by a majority of all the
                        members elected to both houses, according to the rules and limitations prescribed in case of a
                        bill. (Ky., 1799, III, 26). See also La., 1812, III, 21; Ga., 1798, II, 11; N.
        
        
        
          24. There shall be elected, by joint ballot of both houses of the General Assembly, a Treasurer,
                        and Auditor, whose powers and duties shall be prescribed by law, and who shall hold their
                        offices three years, and until their successors be appointed and qualified.
          25. There shall be elected in each County, by the qualified electors thereof, one Sheriff, and
                        one Coroner,
          at the times and places of holding elections for members of the General Assembly: They shall
                        continue in office two years,
          and until successors shall be chosen and duly qualified: provided that no person shall be
                        eligible to the office of Sherriff more than four years in any term of six years.
          26. There shall be a seal of this State, which shall be kept by the Governor and used by him
                        officially, and shall be called, the seal of the State of Indiana.
          Article Five
          1. The Judiciary power of this State, both as to matters of law and equity, shall be vested in
                        one Supreme Court, in Circuit Courts,
          and in such other inferior Courts, as the General Assembly may, from time to time, direct and
                        establish.
          2. The Supreme Court shall consist of three Judges, any
        
        
          H., 1792, XLV; Ky., 1792, I, 29; Pa., 1790, I, 23; Ga., 1789 II, 11; U. S., I, 7.
          There shall be elected in each county one sheriff and one coroner, by the citizens thereof who
                        are qualified to vote for members of the assembly; they shall be elected at the time and place
                        of holding elections for members of

          assembly; they shall continue in office two years, if they shall so long behave well, and until
                        successors be chosen and duly qualified: Provided, That no person shall be
                        eligible as sheriff for a longer term than four years in any term of six years. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, VI, 1).
          There shall be a seal of this State, which shall be kept by the governor, and used by him
                        officially, and shall be called "The Great Seal of the State of 
              Ohio
            ." (
              Ohio
            , 1802, II, 14; Tenn., 1796, II, 15).
          The judicial power of this State, both as to matters of law and equity, shall be vested in a
                        supreme court, in courts of common pleas for each county, in justices of the peace, and in such
                        other courts as the legislature may, from time to time, establish. (
              Ohio
            , 1802, III, 1). See also U. S., III, 1.
          The supreme court shall consist of three judges, any
        
        
        
          two of whom shall form a quorum, and shall have appelate Jurisdiction only which shall be
                        co-extensive with the limits of the State, under such restrictions, and regulations, not
                        repugnant to this Constitution, as may from time to time be prescribed by law. Provided nothing
                        in this article shall be so construed, as to prevent the General Assembly from giving the
                        Supreme Court, original Jurisdiction in Capital cases, and cases in chancery, where the
                        President of the Circuit Court, may be interested or prejudiced.
          3. The Circuit Courts shall each consist of a President, and two associate Judges. The State
                        shall be divided by law, into three circuits, for each of which, a President shall be appointed,
                        who during his continuance in office, shall reside therein.
          The President and associate Judges in their respective Counties,
          shall have Common law and chancery Jurisdiction, as also complete Criminal Jurisdiction, in all
                        such cases and in such manner, as may be prescribed by law. The President alone, in the absence
                        of the associate Judges, or the President and one of the associate Judges, in the absence of the
                        other, shall be competent to hold a Court, as also the two associate Judges, in
        
        
          two of whom shall be a quorum. (Ohio, 1802, III, 3). ...shall have appellate jurisdiction
                        only; which shall be coextensive with the State, under such restrictions and regulations, not
                        repugnant to this constitution, as may from time to time be prescribed by law. (Ky., 1799, IV,
                        2).
          The several courts of common pleas shall consist of a president and associate judges. The State
                        shall be divided by law into three circuits; there shall be appointed in each circuit a
                        president of the courts, who, during his continuance in office, shall reside therein. There
                        shall be appointed in each county, not more than three nor less than two associate judges, who,
                        during their continuance in office, shall reside therein. The president and associate judges, in
                        their respective counties, any three of whom shall be a quorum, shall compose the court of
                        common pleas, which court shall have common-law and chancery jurisdiction
          in all such cases as shall be directed by law:
        
        
        
          the absence of the President, shall be competent to hold a court, except in capital cases, and
                        cases in chancery, provided that nothing herein contained, shall prevent the General Assembly
                        from increasing the number of circuits, and Presidents, as the exigencies of the State may from
                        time to time require.
          4. The Judges of the Supreme Court, the Circuit, and other inferior Courts,
          shall hold their offices during the term of seven years, if they shall so long behave well,
          and shall at stated times receive for their services, a compensation
          which shall not be diminished, during their Continuance in office.
          5. The Judges of the Supreme Court shall by virtue of their offices, be conservators of the peace
                        throughout the State, as also the Presidents of the Circuit Courts,
          in their respective Circuits, and the associate Judges
          in their respective Counties.
          6. The Supreme Court shall
        
        
          
            Provided, That nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent the
                        legislature from increasing the number of circuits and presidents after the term of five years.
                        (Ohio, 1802, III, 3).
          The judges of the supreme court, the presidents, and the associate judges of the courts of common
                        pleas shall be appointed by a joint ballot of both houses of the general assembly, and shall
                        hold their offices for the term of seven years, if so long they behave well. The judges of the
                        supreme court, and the presidents of the courts of common pleas, shall, at stated times, receive
                        for their services an adequate compensation, to be fixed by law, which shall not be diminished
                        during their continuance in office; but they shall receive no fees or perquisites of office, nor
                        hold any other office of profit or trust under the authority of this State or the United States.
                        (Ohio, 1802, III, 8).
          The judges of the supreme court shall, by virtue of their offices, be conservators of the peace
                        throughout the State. The presidents of the courts df common pleas shall, by virtue of their
                        offices, be conservators of the peace in their respective circuits, and the judges of the court
                        of common pleas shall, by virtue of their offices, be conservators of the peace in their
                        respective counties. (Ohio, 1802, III, 7).
          The supreme court shall 
        
        
        
          hold its sessions at the seat of Government, at such times as shall be prescribed by law: and the
                        circuit Courts shall be held in the respective Counties as may be directed by law.
          7. The Judges of the Supreme Court shall be appointed by the Governor, by and with the advice,
                        and consent of the senate. The Presidents of the Circuit Courts shall be appointed by Joint
                        Ballot of both branches of the General Assembly, and the associate Judges of the Circuit Courts,
                        shall be elected by the qualified electors in the respective Counties.
          8. The Supreme Court shall appoint its own Clerk, and the clerks of the Circuit Court, in the
                        several Counties, shall be elected by the qualified electors, in the several Counties, but no
                        person shall be eligible to the office of Clerk of the Circuit Court in any County, unless he
                        shall first have obtained, from one or more of the Judges of the Supreme Court, or from, one or
                        more of the Presidents of the Circuit Courts, a certificate
          that he is qualified to execute the duties of the office of Clerk of the Circuit Court; provided
                        that nothing herein Contained shall prevent the Circuit Courts in each County, from appointing a
                        Clerk pro tem, until a qualified Clerk may be duly elected, and provided also, that the said
                        Clerks respectively when qualified, and elected, shall hold their offices seven years, and
                    no
        
        
          be held once a year in each county;
          and the courts of common pleas shall be holden in each county at such times and places as shall
                        be prescribed by law. (Ohio, 1802, III, 10).
          The judges of the supreme court,
          the presidents, and the associate judges of the courts of common pleas shall be appointed by a
                        joint ballot of both houses of the general assembly ...(Ohio, 1802, III, 8).
          Each court shall appoint its own clerk, for the term of seven years;
          but no person shall be appointed clerk, except pro tempore, who shall not
                        produce to the court appointing
          him a certificate from a majority of the judges of the supreme court that they judge him to be
                        well qualified to execute the duties of the office of clerk to any court of the same dignity
                        with that for which he offers himself...(Ohio, 1802, III, 9). See also Ky., 1799, IV, 10;
                        Ky., 1792, VI, 5.
        
        
        
          longer, unless reappointed.
          9. All Clerks shall be removable by impeachment as in other cases.
          10. When any vacancies happen in any of the Courts occasioned by the death, resignation, or
                        removal from office of any Judge of the Supreme, or Circuit Courts, or any of the clerks of the
                        said Courts, a successor shall be appointed in the same manner, as herein before prescribed, who
                        shall hold his office, for the period which his predecessor had to serve, and no longer unless
                        reappointed.
          11. The Style of all process shall be "The State of Indiana" all prosecutions
                        shall be carried on in the name and by the authority of the State of Indiana; and all
                        indictments shall conclude, against the peace and dignity of the same.
          12. A competent number of Justices of the peace shall be elected by the qualified electors in
                        each Township, in the several Counties, and Shall continue in office five years, if they shall
                        so long behave well, whose powers, and duties shall, from time to time, be regulated and defined
                        by law.
          Article Six
          1. In all elections, not otherwise provided for by this constitution, every white male Citizen of
                        the United States, of the age of twenty one years and upwards, who has resided in the State, one
                        year imme–
        
        
          The style of all process shall be "The State of Ohio," and all prosecutions
                        shall be carried on in the name and by the authority of the State of Ohio; and all indictments
                        shall conclude, "against the peace and dignity of the same." (Ohio, 1802, III,
                        12). See also La., 1812, IV, 6; Ky., 1799, IV, 4; Ky., 1792, V, 7; Del., 1792, VI, 21; S. C.,
                        1790, III, 2; Pa., 1790, V, 12; Vt., 1777, II, 24.
          A competent number of justices of the peace shall be elected by the qualified electors in each
                        township in the several counties, and shall continue in office three years,
          whose powers and duties shall, from time to time, be regulated and defined by law. (Ohio, 1802,
                        III, 11).
          In all elections,
          all white male inhabitants above the age of twenty–one years, having resided in the
                        State one year next
        
        
        
          diately preceding such election,
          shall be entitled to vote in the County where he resides; except such as shall be enlisted in the
                        armies of the united States or their Allies. 

          2. All elections shall be by ballot: provided that the General Assembly may, if they deem it more
                        expedient at their Session in eighteen hundred and twenty one, Change the mode so as to vote viva voce, after which time it shall remain unalterable.
          3. Electors shall in all cases, except treason [,] felony, or breach of the peace, be free from
                        arrest, in going to, during their attendance at, and in returning home from elections.
          4. The General Assembly shall have full power to exclude from electing, or being elected, any
                        person convicted of
          any infamous Crime.
          5. Nothing in this article shall be so construed, as to prevent citizens of the United States,
          who were actual residents at the time of adopting this constitution, and who, by the existing
                        laws of this Territory, are entitled
        
        
          preceding the election, and who have paid, or are charged with, a State or county tax, shall
                        enjoy the right of an elector; but no person shall be entitled to vote, except in the county or
                        district in which he shall actually reside at the time of the election. (Ohio, 1802, IV, 1). See
                        also La., 1812, II, 8; Ky., 1799, II, 8.
          All elections shall be by ballot. (Ohio, 1802, IV, 2; Tenn., 1796, III, 3; Ky., 1792, III, 2;
                        Pa., 1790, III, 2; Ga., 1789, IV, 2). See also N. Y., 1777, VI.
          Electors shall, in all cases except treason, felony, or breach of the peace, be privileged from
                        arrest during their attendance at elections, and in going to and returning from the same. (Ohio,
                        1802, IV, 3). See also La., 1812, II, 8; Ky., 1798, II, 8; Tenn., 1796, III, 2; Ky., 1792, III,
                        2; Del., 1792, IV, 2; Pa., 1790, III, 3.
          The legislature shall have full power to exelude from the privilege of electing, or of being
                        elected, any person convicted of bribery, perjury, or any other infamous crime. (Ohio, 1802, IV,
                        4).
          Nothing contained in this article shall be so construed as to prevent white male persons, above
                        the age of twenty–one years, who are compelled to labor on the roads of their
                        respective townships or counties, and who have re- sided one year in the State, 
        
        
        
          to vote or persons who have been absent from home on a visit, or necessary business, from the
                        privilege of electors.
          Article Seven
          1. The Militia of the State of Indiana shall consist of all free able bodied male persons;
                        Negroes Mulattoes and Indians excepted, resident in said State, between the ages of eighteen,
                        and forty five years, except such persons as now are, or hereafter may be exempted by the laws
                        of the United States, or of this State; and shall be armed, equipped, and trained, as the
                        General Assembly may provide by law.
          2. No person or persons conscientiously scrupulous of bearing arms, shall be compelled to do
                        Militia duty; provided such person or persons shall pay an equivalent for such exemption; which
                        equivalent shall be collected annually, by a civil officer, and be hereafter fixed by law, and
                        shall be equal as near as may be, to the lowest fines assessed on those privates in the Militia,
                        who may neglect or refuse to perform militia duty.
          3. Captains and subalterns shall be elected by those persons in their respective Company
                        districts, who are subject to perform Militia duty,
          and the Captain of each company shall appoint the non-commissioned officers to said company.
          4. Majors shall be elected by those persons within the bounds of their respective Battalion 
        
        
          from having the right of an elector. (Ohio, 1802, IV, 5).
          The
          freemen of this commonwealth (negroes, mulattoes, and Indians excepted)
          shall be armed and disciplined for its defence...(Ky., 1799, III, 28). See also Ky., 1792,
                        VI, 2.
          ...Those who conscientiously scruple to bear arms shall not be compelled to do so,
          but shall pay an equivalent for personal service. (Ky., 1799, III, 28; Ky., 1792, VI, 2; Pa.,
                        1790, VI, 2.)
          Captains and subalterns in the militia shall be elected by those persons in their respective
                        company-districts
          subject to military duty. (Ohio, 1802, V, 1). See also Tenn., 1796, VII, 1.
          ...and the captains and subalterns shall appoint their non-commissioned officers and
                        musicians. (Ohio, 1802, V, 6).
          All field–officers of the militia shall be elected by those citizens in their
                        respective counties
        
        
        
          districts, subject to perform militia duty, and Colonels shall be elected by those persons within
                        the bounds of their respective Regimental districts, subject to perform militia duty.
          5. Brigadier Generals shall be elected by the commissioned officers within the bounds of their
                        respective brigades, and
          Major Generals shall be elected by the Commissioned officers within the bounds of their
                        re-spective Divisions.
          6. Troops and squadrons of Cavalry, and companies of Artillery, riflemen, grenadiers, or light
                        infantry, may be formed in the said State, in such manner as shall be prescribed by law:
                        provided however, That every troop or squadron of Cavalry, company of Artillery, riflemen,
                        grenadiers, or light infantry which may hereafter be formed within the said State, shall elect
                        their own officers.
          7. The Governor shall appoint the adjutant general and quarter master generals, as also his aids
                        de camp.
          8. Major Generals shall appoint their aids de camp, and all other Division Staff officers;
                        Brigadier Generals shall appoint their Brigade Majors, and all other Brigade Staff officers;
          and Colonels shall appoint their Regimental Staff officers.
          9. All Militia officers
        
        
          who are subject to military duty. (Tenn., 1796, VII, 2).
          Brigadiers-general shall be elected by the commissioned officers of their respective brigades.
                        (Ohio, 1802, V, 4). See also Tenn., 1796, VII, 3.
          Majors-general shall be elected by the brigadiers and field-officers of the respective divisions.
                        (Tenn., 1796, VII, 4).
          The captains and subalterns of the artillery and cavalry
          shall be elected by the persons enrolled in their respective corps...(Ohio, 1802, V, 7).
                        See also Tenn., 1796, VII, 6.
          The governor shall appoint the adjutant-general. .. (Tenn., 1796, VII, 5). See also Ohio, 1802,
                        V, 6; Mass., 1780, II, VII.
          ...The majors-general shall appoint their aids and other staff officers; the
                        brigadiers-general shall appoint their brigade-majors and other brigade-staff
                        officers...(Ohio, 1802, V, 6). See also Tenn., 1796, VII, 5.
          ...The colonels shall appoint their regimental staff...(Ohio, 1802, V, 7). See N.
                        Y., 1777,
        
        
        
          shall be commissioned by the Governor, and shall hold their Commissions during good behavior, or
                        until they arrive at the age of sixty years.
          10. The General Assembly shall, by law, fix the method of dividing the 'militia of the
                        said State, into Divisions, Brigades, Regiments, Battalions and Companies, and shall also fix
                        the rank of all staff officers.
          Article Eight
          1. Every twelfth year, after this constitution shall have taken effect, at the general election
                        held for Governor there shall be a poll opened, in which the qualified Electors of the State
                        shall express; by vote, whether they are in favor of calling a convention, or not, and if there
                        should be a majority of all the votes given at such election, in favor of a convention, the
                        Governor shall inform the next General Assembly thereof, whose duty it shall be to provide, by
                        law, for the election of the members to the Convention, the number thereof, and the time and
                        place of their meeting; which law shall not be passed unless agreed to by a majority of all the
                        members elected to both branches of the General Assembly, and which convention, when met, shall
                        have it in their power to revise, amend, or change the constitution. But, as the holding any
                        part of the human Creation in slavery, or involuntary servitude, can only originate in
                        usurpation and tyranny, no alteration of this constitution shall ever take place so as to
                        introduce slavery or invol–
        
        
          XXIV.
          See Mass., 1780, II, I, X.
          … But no alteration of this constitution shall ever take place so as to introduce
                        slavery or invol–
        
        
        
          untary servitude in this State,
          otherwise than for the punishment of crimes, whereof the party shall have been duly convicted.
          Article Nine
          1. Knowledge and learning generally diffused, through a community, being essential to the
                        preservation of a free Government, and spreading the opportunities, and advantages of education
                        through the various parts of the Country, being highly conducive to this end, it shall be the
                        duty of the General Assembly to provide, by law, for the improvement of such lands as are, or
                        hereafter may be granted, by the United States to this State, for the use of Schools, and to
                        apply any funds which may be raised from such lands, or from any other quarters to the
                        accomplishment of the grand object for which they are or may be intended. But no lands granted
                        for the use of schools or seminaries of learning shall be sold by authority of this State, prior
                        to the year Eighteen hundred and twenty; and the monies which may be raised out of the sale of
                        any such lands, or otherwise obtained for the purposes aforesaid, shall be and remain a fund for
                        the exclusive purpose of promoting the interest of Literature, and the sciences, and for the
                        support of seminaries and public schools. The General Assembly shall from, time to time, pass
                        such laws as shall be calculated to encourage intellectual, Scientifical, and agricultural
                        improvements, by allowing rewards and immu–
        
        
          untary servitude into this State. (Ohio, 1802, VII, 5). … otherwise than in the
                        punishment of crimes whereof the party shall have been duly convicted. … (Northwest
                        Ordinance, 1787, VI).
          Knowledge, and learning, generally diffused through a community, being essential to the
                        preservation of a free government; and spreading the opportunities and advantages of education
                        through the various parts of the country, being highly conducive to promote this end; it shall
                        be the duty of the legislators and the magistrates,
          in all future periods of this government to cherish the interest of literature and the sciences,
          and all seminaries and public schools,
          to encourage private and public institutions,
          rewards and immu–
        
        
        
          nities for the promotion and improvement of arts, sciences, commerce, manufactures, and natural
                        History;
          and to countenance and encourage the principles of Humanity, honesty, industry, and morality.
          2. It shall be the duty of the General Assembly, as soon as circumstances will permit, to
                        provide, by law, for a general system of education, ascending in a regular gradation, from
                        township schools to a state university, wherein tuition shall be gratis, and equally open to
                        all.
          3. And for the promotion of such salutary end, the money which shall be paid, as an equivalent,
                        by persons exempt from militia duty except, in times of war, shall be exclusively, and in equal
                        proportion, applied to the support of County seminaries; also all fines assessed for any breach
                        of the penal laws, shall be applied to said seminaries, in the Counties wherein they shall be
                        assessed.
          4. It shall be the duty of the General Assembly, as soon as circumstances will permit, to form a
                        penal Code, founded on the principles of reformation, and not of vindictive Justice: and also to
                        provide one or more farms to be an asylum for those persons, who by reason of age, infirmity, or
                        other misfortunes, may have a claim upon the aid and bene–
        
        
          nities for the promotion of agriculture, arts, sciences, commerce, trades, manufactures and
                        natural history of the country; to countenance and inculcate the principles of humanity and
                        general benevolence, public and private charity, industry and economy, honesty and punctuality,
                        sincerity, sobriety, and all social affections, and generous sentiments, among the people. (N.
                        H., 1784). See also N. H., 1792, LXXXIII; Mass., V, II, I.
        
        
        
          ficence of society; on such principles, that such persons may, therein, find employment, and
                        every reasonable comfort and loose by their usefulness, the degrading sense of dependence.
          5. The General Assembly, at the time they lay off a new County, shall cause, at least, ten
                        percent to be reserved out of the proceeds of the sale of town lots, in the seat of Justice of
                        such county, for the use of a public library for such County, and, at the same session, they
                        shall incorporate a library company, under such rules and regulations as will best secure its
                        permanence, and extend its benefits.
          Article Ten
          1. There "shall not be established or incorporated, in this State, any Bank or Banking Company or
                        monied institution, for the purpose of issuing bills of Credit, or bills payable to order or
                        bearer; Provided that nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to prevent the General
                        Assembly from establishing a State Bank, and branches, not exceeding one branch for any three
                        Counties, and be established at such place, within such Counties, as the directors of the State
                        Bank may select; provided there be subscribed, and paid in specie, on the part of individuals, a
                        sum equal to thirty thousand dollars: provided also, That the Bank of Vincennes, and the Farmers
                        and Mechanics Bank of Indiana, at Madison, shall be considered as incorporated Banks, according
                        to the true tenor of the charters granted to said Banks,
        
        
        
          by the Legislature of the Indiana Territory: provided that nothing herein contained shall be so
                        construed, as to prevent the General Assembly from adopting either of the aforesaid Banks as the
                        State Bank: and in case either of them shall be adopted as the State Bank, the other may become
                        a branch, under the rules and regulations herein before prescribed.
          Article Eleven
          1. Every, person who shall be chosen, or appointed to any office of trust or profit, under the
                        authority of this State, shall, before entering on the duties of said office, take an oath or
                        affirmation, before any person lawfully authorized to administer oaths, to support the
                        constitution of the United States, and the constitution of this State, and also an oath of
                        office.
          2. Treason against this State shall consist only in levying war against it, in adhering to its
                        enemies, or giving them aid and Comfort.
          3. No person shall be convicted of treason, unless on the testimony of two witnesses to the same
                        overt act, or his own confession in open court.
          4. The manner of administering an oath, or affirmation, shall be such as is most
                    con–
        
        
          Every person who shall be chosen or appointed to any office of trust or profit under the
                        authority of the State shall, before the entering on the execution thereof, take an oath or
                        affirmation
          to support the Constitution of the United States and of this State, and also an oath of office.
                        (Ohio, 1802, VII, 1). See also Tenn., 1796, IX, 1.
          Treason against the United States, shall consist only in levying War against them, or in adhering
                        to their Enemies, giving them Aid and Comfort… (United States, III, 3). See also La.,
                        1812, VI, 2; Ky., 1799, VI, 2; Ky., 1792, VIII, 1; Del., 1792, V, 3.
          … No person shall be convicted of treason unless on the testimony of two witnesses to
                        the same overt act, or his own confession in open court. (La., 1812, VI, 2; Ky., 1799, VI, 2).
                        See also Ky., 1792, VIII, 1; Del., 1792, V, 3; U. S., III, 3.
          The manner of administering an oath or affirmation shall be such as is most con–
        
        
        
          sistent with the conscience of the deponent, and shall be esteemed the most solemn appeal to God.
          5. Every person shall be disqualified from serving as Governor, Lieutenant Governor, Senator, or
                        Representative, for the term for which he shall have been elected, who shall have been convicted
                        of having given, or offered, any bribe, treat, or reward to procure his election.
          6. All officers shall reside within the State; and all District, County, or town officers, within
                        their respective Districts, Counties or towns, (the trustees of the town of Clarksville
                        excepted) and Shall Keep their respective offices at such places therein, as may be directed by
                        law; and all Militia officers shall reside within the bounds of the division, Brigade, Regiment,
                        Battalion or company to which they may severally belong.
          7. There shall be neither Slavery nor involuntary Servitude in this State, otherwise than for the
                        punishment of crimes, whereof the party shall have been duly convicted.
        
        
          sistent with the conscience of the deponent, and shall be esteemed by the legislature the most
                        solemn appeal to God. (Ky., 1792, VIII, 5). See also Ky., 1799, VI, 7.
          Every person shall be disqualified from serving as a governor, lieutenant–governor,
                        senator, or representative, for the term for which he shall have been elected, who shall be
                        convicted of having given or offered any bribe or treat
          to procure his election. (Ky., 1799, VI, 3). See also La., 1812, VI, 3.
          All civil officers for the commonwealth at large shall reside within the State, and all district,
                        county, or town officers within their respective districts, counties, or towns, (trustees of
                        towns excepted,) and shall keep their respective offices at such places therein as may be
                        required by law; and all militia officers shall reside in the bounds of the division, brigade,
                        regiment, battalion, or company to which they may severally belong. (Ky., 1799, VI, 11). See
                        also La., 1812, VI, 7.
          There shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in this State, otherwise than for the
                        punishment of crimes, whereof the party shall have been duly convicted; nor shall any male
                        person, arrived at the age of twenty–one years, nor female person, arrived at the age
                        of eighteen years, be held to serve any person as a servant, under the pretence of indenture or
                        otherwise, unless such person shall enter into such indenture while in a state of perfect
                        freedom, and on con–
        
        
        
          Nor shall any indenture of any Negro or Mulatto hereafter made, and executed out of the bounds of
                        this State
          be of any Validity within the State.
          8. No act of the General assembly Shall be in force until it shall have been published in print,
                        unless in cases of emergency.
          9. All commissions shall be in the name, and by the authority of the State of Indiana; and sealed
                        with the State Seal, and Signed by the Governor and attested by the secretary of State.
          10. There shall be elected in each county a Recorder, who shall hold his office during the term
                        of seven years, if he shall so long behave well: provided that nothing herein contained shall
                        prevent the clerks of the circuit Courts from holding the office of recorder.
          11. Corydon, in Harrison County shall be the Seat of Government of the State of Indiana, until
                        the year eighteen hundred and twenty five, and until removed by law.
          12. The General Assembly, when they lay off any new county, shall not reduce the old county, or
                        counties,
          from which the same 
        
        
          dition of a bona–fide consideration, received, or to be received,
                        for their service, except as before excepted. Nor shall any indenture of any negro or mulatto,
                        hereafter made and executed out of the State, or, if made in the State, where the term of
                        service exceeds one year, be' of the least validity, except those given in the case of
                        apprenticeships. (Ohio, 1802, VIII, 2).
          All commissions shall be in the name and by the authority of the State of Kentucky, and sealed
                        with the State seal, and signed by the governor. (Ky., 1799, IV, 11; La., 1812, IV, 8). See also
                        Ohio, 1802, II, 15; Ky., 1792, VI, 6; Pa., 1790, VI, 4; Tenn., 1796, II, 16.
          Chillicothe shall be the seat of government until the year one thousand eight hundred and
                        eight… (Ohio, 1802, VII, 4). See also Tenn., 1796, X, 1; La., 1812, VI, 24; Ky.,
                        1799, VIII, 1.
          No new county shall be established by the general assembly, which shall reduce the county or
                        counties, or either of them, from which it 
        
        
        
          shall be taken to a less content than four hundred square miles.
          13. No person shall hold more than one lucrative office at the same time, except as in this
                        constitution is expressly permitted.
          14. No person shall be appointed as a County officer, within any county, Who shall not have been
                        a citizen and an inhabitant therein one year next preceding his appointment; if the county shall
                        have been so long erected, but if the county shall not have been so long erected, then within
                        the limits of the county or counties, out of which it shall have been taken.
          15. All town, and township officers shall be appointed
          in such manner as shall be directed by law.
          16. The following officers of Government shall not be allowed greater annual salaries, until the
                        year eighteen hundred and nineteen than as follows. The Governor one thousand dollars,
          the Secretary of State four hundred dollars, the Auditor of public accounts four hundred dollars,
                        the Treasurer four hundred dollars The Judges of the Supreme court eight hundred
        
        
          shall be taken, to less contents than four hundred square miles… (Ohio, 1802, VII, 3).
          That no person in the State shall hold more than one lucrative office, at any one
                        time… (N. C., 1776, XXXV). See also Tenn., 1798, I, 23.
          No person shall be appointed to any office within any county who shall not have been a citizen
                        and inhabitant therein one year next before his appointment, if the county shall have been so
                        long erected; but if the county shall not have been so long erected, then within the limits of
                        the county or counties out of which it shall have been taken. (Ohio, 1802, I, 27). See also Ky.,
                        1799, III, 9; Ky., 1792, II, 8; Pa., 1790, II, 8.
          All town and township officers shall be chosen annually, by the inhabitants thereof duly
                        qualified to vote for members of the assembly, at such time and place as may be directed by law.
                        (Ohio, 1802, VI, 3).
          The legislature of this State shall not allow the following officers of government greater annual
                        salaries than as follows until the year one thousand eight hundred and eight, to wit: The
                        governor not more than one thousand dollars; the judges of the supreme court not more than one
                        thousand dollars each; the presidents of the courts of common pleas not more than eight hundred
                        dollars each; the secretary of state not more than five hundred dollars; the auditor of public
                        accounts not more than seven hundred and fifty dollars; the treasurer not more than four hundred
                        and fifty dollars;
        
        
        
          dollars each—the Presidents of the Circuit Courts eight hundred dollars each, and the
                        Members of the General assembly, not exceeding two dollars per day each, during their attendance
                        on the same, and two dollars for every twenty five miles, they shall severally travel on the
                        most usual route, in going to, and returning from the General assembly; after which time their
                        pay shall be regulated by law. But no law, passed to increase the pay of the members of the
                        General Assembly, shall take effect, until after the close of the Session at which such law
                        shall have been passed.
          17. In order that the boundaries of the State of Indiana may more certainly be known &
                        established; It is hereby ordained and declared, that the following shall be, and forever remain
                        the boundaries of the said state; to wit, Bounded on the east by the meridian line which forms
                        the western boundary of the State of Ohio, On the South by the Ohio river, from the mouth of the
                        great Miami river, to the mouth of the river Wabash; On the West by a line drawn along the
                        middle of the Wabash river from its mouth to a point, where a due north line drawn from the town
                        of Vincennes, would last touch the northwestern shore of the said Wabash River; and from thence
                        by a due north line until the Same Shall intersect an east and west line drawn through a point
                        ten miles north of the Southern extreme of lake Michigan; On the north by the said east and west
                        line, until the same shall intersect the first mentioned meridian line, which forms the western
                        boundary of the State of Ohio.
        
        
          no member of the legislature shall receive more than two dollars per day, during his attendance
                        on the legislature, nor more for every twenty–five miles he shall travel
          in going to and returning from the general assembly. (Ohio, 1802, I, 19). See also Tenn., 1796,
                        I, 20.
          See Ohio, 1802, VII, 6; Ga., 1798, I, 23; Tenn., 1796, XI, 32; N. C., 1776, XXV; Va., 1776,
                    19.
        
      
      
      
        Book Reviews
        
          A Short History of 
              Canada
             for Americans. By Alfred Leroy Burt. (
            Minneapolis
          : University of 
            Minnesota
           Press, 1942. Pp. xvi, 279. Maps and illustrations. $2.50)
        Someone has recently remarked that in 1492, 
            Columbus
           discovered America, while in 1942, America discovered 
            Canada
          . Allowing for the figurative language, it must be conceded that this observation
                    contains considerable truth. During the past few months innumerable books and articles have appeared
                    in this country relating to 
            Canada
           and its history. This awakening of interest in our northern neighbor was long overdue.
                    Canadian historians have been diligent in research into their past and the results of their labors
                    have been available in many scholarly, if rather formidable, works. It was high time, however, that 
            Canada
          's story should be made accessible to the public in somewhat more popular form.
        
          A Short History of 
              Canada
            , for Americans has been written in response to this increasing interest south
                    of the international boundary in Canadian affairs. Professor Burt was especially well qualified for
                    the task because of his scholarship and his familiarity with both the American and the Canadian
                    points of view. He is a Canadian by birth and has been for some years professor of history at the
                    University of 
            Minnesota
          .
        The present volume is intended primarily for the general reader rather than as a textbook. It covers
                    the entire range of Canadian history, from the early French explorations to the second World War,
                    which means that at many points the narrative has had to be compressed within fairly narrow limits.
                    Professor Burt writes in a lively and interesting style and he has given us the best brief
                    introduction to Canadian history which has yet appeared. He has not limited himself to political and
                    constitutional history but has devoted considerable space to social and cultural matters.
        There are three excellent chapters dealing with the French regime, prior to 1763, in which the author
                    stresses the influence of the frontier element upon Canadian life and emphasizes the essentially
                    democratic outlook of the habitants. The American Revolution and the War of 1812, in so far as they
                    affected 
            Canada
          , are described at some length; and there is a good account of the evolution of
                    responsible government and of the formation of the Confederation of 1867. One chapter contains an
                    excellent description of the government of 
            Canada
          , which will be of great value to American readers. There is a most interesting account
                    of the expansion of 
            Canada
           and of life in the West and Northwest. The compression which was unavoidable in a
                    modest-sized volume is especially noticeable toward the end; and the treatment of political,
                    economic, and imperial trends since 1867 is disappointingly brief and sketchy. The reviewer feels
                    that American readers would gladly have known more of these matters.

        Those who have read earlier books by Professor Burt will recognize in this volume points of view
                    which are unconventional and with which they may not always agree. He refuses to concede that  concern for the fur trade had much, if anything, to do with
                    Great Britain's retention of the Northwest posts following the Revolution. In describing
                    the causes of the War of 1812 he chooses to ignore the expansionist tendencies of the American
                    frontiersmen and the demand for the conquest of 
            Canada
          . This factor may have been over-stressed in the past, but should it be omitted
                    altogether? In commenting on the motives which led to the founding of New 
            France
          , Professor Burt says that no English colony was established with an idea that it would
                    control a water passage through the continent to the Orient, "or with any thought of
                    discovering such a passage." Some such purpose was certainly present in the minds of the 
            Virginia
           patentees. The reviewer feels that in a volume intended for American readers, a little
                    more space should have been devoted to Canadian-American diplomatic and economic relations. The
                    Reciprocity Treaty of 1854, for example, is summarized in one brief sentence. On the other hand, the
                    volume contains brief but vivid pen portraits of many of 
            Canada
          's leaders, such as Sir Wilfrid Laurier, Sir John A. Macdonald, and Joseph
                    Howe, which make lively reading.
        The book is published in an unusually attractive format. The typography and printing are excellent
                    and there are end papers of most attractive design. An outstanding feature of the volume consists of
                    almost one hundred half-tone illustrations, made from historical prints, drawings, and portraits,
                    and from modern photographs. Together they serve to illustrate almost every aspect of Canadian life
                    and history. There are also a number of maps to illustrate the text. Professor Burt deserves the
                    highest praise for a work which should go a long way toward making 
            Canada
           better known to Americans. The one real regret of the reviewer is that this survey
                    could not have been twice as long. There is still room for a similar book containing considerably
                    more material, which might be used as a text in the increasing number of courses in Canadian history
                    being offered in American colleges and universities.
        Wayne E. Stevens.
      
      
        
          The Long Ships Passing. By Walter Havighurst. (The Macmillan Company, 
            New York
          , 1942. Pp. viii, 291. Illustrations, index. $3.00)
        By birth and experience the author of The Upper 
              Mississippi
            
           in the Rivers of America Series and such novels as The Quiet Shore and Pier 17
                    is admirably prepared to tell what he terms "the story of the Great Lakes." He
                    writes with enthusiasm and most readers will come to share his feelings, even though they may not
                    care to finish the book at one sitting. It consists essentially of a series of sketches on such
                    topics as the explorations of the French, the founding of the Lake cities, the coming of the
                    immigrants, the development of lumbering and mining—all loosely joined together by a
                    history of transportation. Mr. Havighurst has found time as a professor of English at Miami
                    University, 
            Oxford
          , 
            Ohio

          , to supplement his earlier activities as seaman and longshoreman by diligent research.
                    Thus competently, but on a popular level, he revives many dramatic episodes, such as  the fleet that sailed on land, the building of the Soo Canal (which
                    carries "more tonnage than the 
            Panama
          , Suez, and Kiel canals all together"), the burning of Menominee, etc.
        Although ships hold the center of the stage, the reader catches glimpses of Brule, Nicolet,
                    Marquette, Joliet, Allouez, La Salle, and Schoolcraft. Paradoxically, it is the nineteenth century
                    names which are unfamiliar. How many Hoosiers will recall Douglas Houghton, of 
            Detroit
          , a contemporary of Schoolcraft, the Indian agent! Or the Mormon, James Jesse Strang,
                    known as the "King of Beaver Island" and by other titles far less complimentary!
                    Then there was George Stuntz, pioneer of the 
            Duluth
           area, who early regarded the Superior region as the "future heart of the
                    continent" (quite in contrast to Henry 
            Clay
          , who objected to a prospective canal at the Soo because it was "a place beyond
                    the remotest settlement of the 
            United States
          , if not in the moon"). Fleeting attention is accorded such captains as George
                    McKay, Charley Allers, and Tom Wilson (not to mention "Sockless" Jerry Simpson,
                    who seldom is associated with the Lakes) and boat builders like Alexander McDougall, James Davidson,
                    George A. Tomlinson, and Harry Coulby.
        Some one hundred sixty vessels are mentioned by name, beginning with the pioneer steamer
                    "Walk-in-the-Water," which by means of sails and forty cords of hardwood made a
                    trip in three days from the Hudson River to 
            Detroit
          . While the tragedy of the "Caroline" in 1837 is commonly known today,
                    almost equally famous in their time were the disasters encountered by the
                    "Phoenix," the "
            Erie
          ," the "G. P. Griffin," the "Charles F.
                    Price," and the "Lady Elgin." All types of craft are dealt with, but one
                    has a suspicion that Mr. Havighurst is partial to such full-rigged schooners as the "Lucia
                    A. Simpson," which flourished from 1875 to 1929, the last of its kind. The concluding
                    chapter recapitulates briefly the Great Lakes-to-ocean project, of which many readers probably would
                    prefer a little fuller treatment, even at the expense of a score of
                    "three-masters" and iron freighters.
        Max P. Allen
      
      
        
          The Career of Joseph Lane, Frontier Politician. By Sister M. Margaret Jean
                    Kelly. (The Catholic University of America Press, 
            Washington, D. C.
          , 1942. Pp. ix, 207. $2.00)
        Joseph Lane, "Jo" to most people, is remembered in the Hoosier state chiefly for
                    his exploits in the Mexican War as Brigadier-General of the Indiana Brigade of Volunteers. He is
                    remembered in 
            Oregon
           as territorial governor, Indian fighter, delegate to Congress, and senator. And he is
                    known to the people of the country chiefly as running mate of John C. Breckinridge on the national
                    Democratic ticket in the fire-eating campaign of 1860.
        "Jo" Lane—frontiersman, 
            Mississippi

           boatman, soldier, politician, Forty-Niner, farmer, Catholic—has long
                    deserved the full-fledged biographical treatment accorded him by Sister M. Margaret Jean Kelly in
                    what was her doctoral dissertation at the Catholic University of America. The author's
                    treatment of Lane is very creditable, in that she has sketched with good balance and proportion the
                    life of  Lane, from his birth in Buncombe County, 
            North Carolina
          , in 1801 to his death at Roseburg, 
            Oregon
          , in 1881. She pictures Joseph, a lad of fourteen, as a clerk in a drygoods store at
                    Darlington, Indiana; as a married man at nineteen; and as state legislator at Corydon at twenty-one.
                    When war with 
            Mexico
           came in May, 1846, Lane left the State Senate to volunteer as a private in the Indiana
                    Riflemen of 
            Vanderburgh County
          . But thanks to the influence of a loyal friend, Robert Owen, President Polk presently
                    elevated Lane to be Brigadier-General of the Indiana Brigade. Lane saw much action on Mexican soil.
                    During the Battle of 
            Buena Vista
          , in which engagement the Hoosier Colonel William H. Bowles gave an order to
                    "Cease firing and retreat," General Lane was credited by a court of inquiry with
                    having "conducted himself as a brave and gallant officer."
        Lane was a good Democrat with ingrown southern leanings, and President Polk rewarded the returned
                    hero—now often alluded to as the "
            Marion
           of the Mexican War"—with the territorial governorship of 
            Oregon
          . The author's treatment of Lane's 
            Oregon
           experiences is one based more solidly on documentary materials, thanks to the
                    availability of about 2,000 letters to and from Lane for the period after 1848 that are housed at
                    the 
            Oregon
           Historical Society at 
            Portland
          . The author is inclined to be friendly to and at times apologetic for her subject, but
                    she has woven in materials that suggest varying degrees of approbation and blame. While in 
            Oregon
           Territory, Lane helped to form and perpetuate a Democratic clique that retained him as 
            Oregon
          's representative first in the House and then in the Senate until the eclipse
                    of his party in 1860. And so strong was his influence in the Willamette Valley
                    that when the ballots of that year were counted, 
            Oregon
           gave 
            Lincoln
           5,344 votes; Breckinridge, 5,074; and Douglas, who led over Breckinridge in all other
                    northern states, only 212 votes.
        Finally, the author tells the story of Lane's forced retirement to his farm near Roseburg,
                    that came as a result of the Republican triumph and the Civil War, but how as years passed by the
                    public condemnation for his southern sympathies softened toward the aging warrior—so much
                    so that, with Dr. John McLoughlin, he is remembered as one of a pair of 
            Oregon
          's grand old men.

        The full and classified bibliography in this book shows some omissions. There is no listing of
                    earlier biographical sketches of Joseph Lane, such as the one by Eldora Miner Raleigh which appeared
                    in the Southeastern Indiana Historical Society Proceedings (1928) and those in the
                        National Cyclopedia of American Biography and the Dictionary of American
                    Biography, or the highly colored Biographical Sketches of Hon. John C. Breckinridge and
                        General Joseph Lane, Breckinridge and Lane Campaign Document, No. 8, published by the
                    National Democratic Executive Committee in 1860; and also D. W. Bartlett, Presidential
                        Candidates (
            New York
          , 1859). Lucille Stillwell's John C. Breckinridge would have
                    been helpful, as would certain Lane letters published in the 
            
              New Harmony
             Advertiser and additional letters of Lane to A. Burns in the 
            New Harmony
           Library.

        The style of the book is clear and readable, but not particularly colorful. The text has been
                    prepared with evident care, but some  misstatements and
                    typographical errors have crept in, as, for example, the date April 24, 1847, given as the date of
                    the opening of hostility between the 
            United States
           and 
            Mexico
           (p. 25) ; a "41–174" vote in the Senate (p. 61) which, if
                    true, would admit of some ballot box stuffing; "man" for men (p. 9) ;
                    "Mexirans" for Mexicans (p. 42) ; "though" for thought (p. 70),
                    "Port 
            Oxford
          " for Port Orford (p. 139) ; and throughout she refers to the Hudson's
                    Bay Company as "Hudson Bay Company" (as for example on pages 70, 71, and in the
                    index). It is doubtful, however, that any of these errors of omission and commission have seriously
                    impaired the value of this biography—a very welcome contribution to western history.
        Oscar Osburn Winther
      
      
        
          William Henry Harrinon, His Life and Times. By James A. Green. (Garrett and
                    Massie, 
            Richmond
          , 
            Virginia
          , c. 1941. Pp. xii, 536. $5.00)
        This volume is the latest biography of William Henry Harrison. It is an interesting and spirited
                    account of the career of Indiana's territorial governor, but it has many shortcomings. It
                    certainly is far from a definitive account and is not likely to be regarded as an improvement upon
                    Dorothy B. Goebel's political biography of Harrison, which Mr. Green criticizes as too
                    unfriendly.
        It pictures the young soldier as he came from 
            Virginia
           to the frontier of the early Northwest Territory, where he learned Indian warfare under
                    the direction of General Anthony 
            Wayne
          . He later became the delegate to Congress from the territory, as a result of his
                    association with other Virginians in their struggle against Governor Arthur St. Clair. This
                    position, in turn, led to his appointment as governor of Indiana Territory in 1800. A very erroneous
                    conception of the land system and of the Harrison Land Act of 1800 (pp. 79–80) mars this
                    portion of the work. Praise of Harrison in this connection is considerably exaggerated. The 
            Mississippi
           Territory is also confused with the Southwest Territory (p. 70).
        His administration as governor of Indiana Territory is described in a fairly brief chapter, in which
                    the author rightly complains that not enough attention has been paid to the cultural influences of
                    Harrison in the Wabash Valley and in which he admits the error of the governor
                    in favoring the introduction of slavery. He fails, however, to deal with the contest between the
                    friends and opponents of Harrison and the resulting democratization of the territorial government
                    and the movement for statehood. This omission freed the author from the treatment of contemporary
                    criticism of his hero.
        His military career is delineated at much greater length. Here the author finds much to admire and
                    little to criticize. Slight attention is devoted to Harrison's efforts to have himself
                    placed in command of the army in the Northwest. Partisanship for Harrison involves the author in a
                    hostile treatment of General James 
            Winchester

           (p. 154). Although many pages are devoted to the campaign of 1813, the reader is likely
                    to secure a picture not so much of military operations as of camp life and of the problems of
                    supplying the army.  An interesting and instructive diary which
                    is quoted at length almost obscures the general and the campaign.
        Resigning from the army, Harrison entered upon the life of a country gentleman and farmer,
                    establishing his home at 
            North Bend
          . He was often busy with official duties, for he was a member of Congress,
                    1816–1819, of the state senate, 1819–1821, and of the 
            United States
           Senate, 1825–1828. He also served as 
            United States
           minister to 
            Columbia
          , 1828–1829. The author gives generous glimpses of Harrison's home
                    life, his farming activity, and his brief diplomatic career. After a few years of farming and local
                    politics, Harrison emerged as an unsuccessful candidate for President. In. this portion of the
                    narrative, one learns that the author shares Harrison's hostility to Jackson (p. 275).
                    Hostility to Harrison's critics brings forth the remark that one is an unfriendly
                    biographer (p. 256) and another a "glorious ass" (p. 294). Poor proofreading is
                    apparent throughout the book, but here one finds "skin plasters" for
                    "shinplasters" (p. 310).
        The remainder of the narrative is devoted to the campaign for the presidential nomination of the Whig
                    party, the succeeding campaign for the election of 1840, the journey to 
            Washington
          , and the month in which Harrison was an occupant of the White House. A concluding
                    chapter treats the myth of the log cabin.
        The narrative concerning the political contests is always lively and interesting, but the author
                    appears bewildered when following the President-elect to 
            Washington
           and during his brief presidency. He is loyal to his subject to the very end, however,
                    finding in the conduct of others a sufficient field for his critical activity. Occasional slips also
                    mar this part of the work. The Whitewater Canal is said to link 
            Indianapolis
           with 
            Cincinnati
           (p. 315). The Mexican War is referred to as adding to the Union the territory from the
                    Rio Grande to the British possessions on the north (p. 343). When pioneers were able to build a new
                    home to take the place of the log cabin, "the new house" was "usually of
                    brick, sometimes of stone and not infrequently of frame [p. 344]." James G. Birney is
                    described as "the first and greatest of the abolitionists [p. 353]."
        A lengthy appendix reveals a considerable knowledge of the literature about Harrison. Careless
                    proofreading is evident in the first paragraph, however, where Dr. Logan Esarey quickly becomes
                    "Dr. Esrey." The author evidently was not aware of the old adage that
                    "persons who live in glass houses should not throw stones," for he criticizes
                    others rather freely, though often correctly. The author also reveals that he possesses and has read
                    120 Harrison sermons and funeral orations. His collection of Harrison titles has reached 1600.
        It is only fair to the author and to his prospective readers to say that he has produced a very
                    interesting book, that it contains many excellent illustrations, and that for many readers its
                    virtues will greatly exceed its defects.
        John D. Barnhart
      
      
      
        
          Shooting Star: The Story of Tecumseh. By William Edward Wilson. (
            New York
          , Farrar and Rinehart, 1942. Pp. 248. $2.00)

        There is always room for another volume of historical fiction which appeals to the
                    juvenile's love of adventure, especially when it combines with this appeal the substance
                    that makes for fair-mindedness and demonstrates to youth the all-pervading power of the human
                    spirit. Written by the author of The 
              Wabash
            
           and Big Knife: The Story of George Rogers Clark, this volume
                    becomes a welcome addition to junior high school literature.
        Mr. Wilson's treatment of the relations of the white men and Indians is admirably fair. As
                    battles are described one notes the author's efforts to bring out the courage of both
                    frontiersmen and red men. In his story of their diplomatic dealings, particularly those of William
                    Henry Harrison and Tecumseh, there is a studied attempt to justify the attitudes and actions of each
                    in the light of their contrasting backgrounds. The author emphasizes that many Indian tribes,
                    particularly the Piankeshaws around 
            Vincennes
          , had been corrupted by the white man's "fire-water"; but he
                    also describes how men of the two races exhibited profound respect and genuine helpfulness toward
                    each other.
        From the opening pages, which tell how the hero received the name Tecumseh—Shawnee for
                    Shooting Star—the reader senses the atmosphere in which the Indians lived at the
                    beginning of the nineteenth century. There are incidental but excellent pictures of Indian and
                    frontier home life, with its simple entertainment and unsophisticated humor, of the Osages who were
                    at home in the saddle and the Shawnees who were fleet of foot, and of Indian military tactics.
        Tecumseh stands out above ail other characters. Perhaps the best picture of this great
                    chief's heroic proportions is afforded in a little incident which dramatically interrupts
                    the swiftly moving story of preparations for the fatal Battle of the Thames. As Tecumseh stood at
                    dawn talking for the last time to his son, a frontier lad who had run many miles from his home that
                    morning just to see this famed chief was so impressed by the fine figure that had been so often
                    described to him and "the face that reminded men somehow of Napoleon" that years
                    later he named his own son Tecumseh, in memory of that hero whom he had seen but for a moment on
                    that October morning in 1813. Mr. Wilson presents his hero as a man of patience, foresight, and
                    loyalty—loyalty even to those for whom he had lost all personal respect but to whom he
                    was bound by agreement. The adult, incidentally, might consider the narrative here a bit overdrawn
                    and sentimental; but to the youthful mind the story of these trying days in Tecumseh's life
                    leads only to an increased appreciation of his stature as a man.
        The style and the organization of Shooting Star are as a whole very commendable.
                    Only in a few spots is the vividness and clarity of the writing marred by a difficult vocabulary and
                    involved sentences. The story displays a fine unity throughout, and yet some chapters are so well
                    self-contained as to constitute excellent short stories.
        A number of famous historical characters march across the pages 
                    of the book, such as Admiral Perry and Mad Anthony 
            Wayne
          . As to Tecumseh himself, he fails to become in the latter part of Shooting
                        Star the great warrior of 
            Canada
          , as he is so often pictured. In fact, his career as a military giant seems to suffer
                    from the effect of an anticlimax soon after he finally abandoned the Indian territory. But perhaps
                    this is only a way of preparing the reader for the hero's final triumph as the embodiment
                    of "the ideal of freedom and human dignity—that ideal for which Tecumseh lived
                    and fought in the 
            United States
           and 
            Canada
           and for which he died beside the quiet waters of the Thames years ago."
        Kenneth B. Thurston.
      
      
      
        Genealogical Section
        ATKINSON GENEALOGY
        Contributed by FLORENCE M. BOSWELL
        Several Atkinsons came to America in the early colonial period. Luke Atkinson was a signer of the 
            New Haven
           Compact and an early settler and leading citizen of 
            New Haven
          , 
            Connecticut
          . Theodore and Thomas Atkinson, who were brothers, came from 
            Lancaster, England
          , in
                    1636, and settled in 
            Boston
          . Thomas and John Atkinson, brothers, were born in Yorkshire, 
            England
          , the sons of John Atkinson. These brothers emigrated to 
            Pennsylvania
           in 1681, where they were among the founders of 
            Bucks County
          . The family belonged to the Society of Friends. Other Atkinsons settled in 
            New Jersey
           near 
            Burlington
          . The head of this branch was William, who married Elizabeth Curtis. Descendants of this
                    family moved westward, and Atkinsons are found in many western and southern states. The family whose
                    lineage is traced below is thought to have descended from the 
            Pennsylvania
           line. The record as given includes only the part for which proof has been found. This
                    begins with Henry and Ann Atkinson, of old Craven County, 
            North Carolina
          .
        Chief sources for the information on this genealogy include William L. Saunders (ed.), The Colonial Records of 
              North Carolina
            
          , IV (Raleigh, N. C., 1886) ; William Wade Hinshaw (comp.), Encyclopedia of American 
              Quaker
             Genealogy (2 vols., 
            Ann Arbor
          , 
            Michigan
          , 1936), I; 
            Columbia County
          , 
            Georgia
          , Records; 
            Chatham County
          , 
            North Carolina
          , Court Records; 
            Lucas County
          , 
            Iowa
          , Deed Records; and family Bible records.
        
          ATKINSON
        
        
          I. Henry Atkinson m. Ann—–.Was granted 130 acres of land in old 
              Craven County
            , 
              North Carolina
            , 5–21–1741 (
                North Carolina
               Colonial Records, IV, 594). II.

          II. Thomas Atkinson, son of Henry and Ann Atkinson, b. 9–18–1741; m.
                        first to Ruth Cruze, dau. of John and Ann Cruze, d. 1–17–1779 (Hinshaw,
                            
              
                Quaker
               Genealogy, I, 346). Children of Thomas and Ruth (Cruze) Atkinson: 
              1. John, b. 11–25–1766, N. C.; m.
                                1–17–1793 Mary Woody.
              2. Thomas, Jr., b. 8–30–1769, N. C., d.
                                4–3–1844, 
                  Orange

                 Co., Ind.; m. 7–24–1795 Margaret Kennedy, b.
                                8–28–1762, d. 7–28–1833.  Children of Thomas, Jr., and Margaret (Kennedy) Atkinson:
                                    
                  a. John, b. 10–9–1796, d.
                                        8–14–1884; m. 2–3–1819 Milly Dawson,
                                        b. 12–29–1794, d. 4–8–1884.
                  b. Robert, m. 1847 Margaret Truax.
                  c. Arthur, m. Mary Jane Pinnich.
                  d. Henry, m. Lydia Dixon.
                  e. Thomas, m. 12–29–1836 Rachel Vance.
                  f. Ruth.
                  g. Mary Ann, b. 1–31–1805, d.
                                        7–31–1848; m. John Ditto.
                  h. Margaret, b. 8–28–1806; m. Nathaniel Vest.
                  i. Hiram, d. single.
                
              
              3. Mary, b. 4–5–1771; m. 1812 Hugh Woody.
              4. Ann, b. 2–28–1773; m. 1799 ——Lynch.
              5. Robert, b. 2–17–1775; m. 1797 Hannah Dunn. Thomas Atkinson,
                                Sr., m. second, 9–5–1781, Ruth Harvey, b.
                                12–25–1755, dau. of Isaac and Martha Harvey (
                  Columbia County
                , 
                  Georgia
                , Records). Children of Thomas and Ruth (Harvey) Atkinson: 
              6. William, b. 7–18–1782, 
                  Orange
                 Co., N. C.
              7. Elizabeth, b. 9–29–1784, 
                  Orange
                 Co., N. C.
              8. Henry, b. 2–11–1786, d. 10–30–1800.
              9. Martha, b. 6–10–1787.
              10. Rachel, b. 10–12–1788.
              11. Isaac, b. 2–7–1790, d. 6–27–1799.
              12. Ruth, b. 5–25–1791.
              13. Edith, b. 6–29–1793.
              14. Nathan, b. 4–3–1795, d. 11–22–1800.
              15. David, b. 8–21–1797.
            
          

          III. John Atkinson, son of Thomas and Ruth (Cruze) Atkinson, b.
                        11–25–1766, N. C., d. 1830, Chatham Co., N. C.; m.
                        1–17–1793 Mary Woody, b. 9–12–1772, dau. of James
                        and Mary Woody, d. 12–1–1859 (Hinshaw, 
              
                Quaker
               Genealogy, I, 346. Will of John Atkinson,
                        10–24–1829, probated May term, 1830, Chatham County, 
              North Carolina

            , Court Records, Book B., 181–81). Children of John and Mary (Woody)
                        Atkinson. 
              1. James, b. 10–23–1793; m. 1–29–1817
                                Rachel Thomas.
              2. Ruth, b. 11–20–1794; m. 2–10–1814
                                Solomon Stout.
              3. Thomas, b. 8–28–1796.
              4. Hugh, b. 2–27–1798; m. 11–12–1818
                                Hannah Barker.
              5. Sarah, b. 2–26–1800; m. 12–11–1828
                                Nathaniel Newlin.
              6. Robert, b. 4–3–1802; m. 1830 Mary Curl.
              7. Charity, b. 9–20–1804.
              8. John, b. 1–10–1807; m. 11–20–1830 Ann
                                Vestal.
              9. Mary, b. 2–3–1810.
              10. Samuel, b. 5–9–1812; m. 10–15–1835
                                Rebecca Hornaday.
              11. Elihu, b. 7–16–1815.
            
          
          IV. James Atkinson, son of John and Mary (Woody) Atkinson, b.
                        10–23–1793, Chatham Co., N. C.; m. 1–29–1817 Rachel
                        Thomas, b. 6–19–1797, dau. of Lewis and Agnes Thomas of 
              Orange
             Co.,  Ind. (Hinshaw, 
              
                Quaker
               Genealogy, I, 346, 1068, 1071–72. Certificate of removal, and
                        Records of Lick Creek Monthly Meeting, 
              Orange County
            , Indiana. Lucas County, 
              Iowa

            , Deed Record Book A, 33–34). Children of James and Rachel (Thomas)
                        Atkinson: 
              1. Joseph.
              2. Maggie, m. —–Young.
              3. William.
              4. Sarah, m. —–Morris.
              5. Lewis, b. 10–6–1830, 
                  Orange
                 Co., Ind., d. 1–21–1882, 
                  Cuba
                , Ill.; m. 1–7–1856 Angaline McNew, b.
                                12–15–1839, d. 8–22–1890.
              6. Rebecca, b. 1833, 
                  Orange
                 Co., Ind.; m. —–Harpold.
              7. James, b. 1834, 
                  Orange
                . Co., Ind.
              8. Stephen, b. 1836, 
                  Orange
                 Co., Ind.; m. 9–26–1856 Mary McNew.
            
          

          V. Lewis Atkinson, son of James and Rachel (Thomas) Atkinson, b.
                        10–6–1830, d. 1–21–1882; m.
                        1–7–1856 Angaline McNew, b. 12–15–1839, d.
                        8–22–1890 (Hinshaw, 
              
                Quaker
               Genealogy, I, 1071–72. Lucas County, 
              Iowa

            , Deed Record Book D, 134. Bible records). Children of Lewis and Angaline (McNew)
                        Atkinson: 
              1. Lucinda, b. 10–7–1856, Chariton, 
                  Iowa
                , d. 3–15–1927, 
                  Cuba
                , Ill.
              2. Thomas, b. 3–1–1858, Chariton, 
                  Iowa
                , d. 12–14–1922, 
                  Cuba
                , Ill.; m. Alice Winship, b. 11–23–1860, Colchester,
                                Ill., d. 10–3–1935, 
                  Cuba
                , Ill. Children of Thomas and Alice (Winship) Atkinson: 
                  a. William 
                      Franklin
                    , m. Sarah Whitworth, 
                      Cuba
                    , Ill.
                  b. Clara Ann, m. 2–3–1901 Cyrus Bishop, 
                      Cuba
                    , Ill.
                  c. James Lewis, m. Mary Mordue, 
                      Cuba
                    , Ill.
                  d. Ethel Judith, m. Joseph Goett, 
                      Cuba
                    , Ill.
                  e. George Henry, b. 1896, d. 1903, 
                      Cuba
                    , Ill.
                  f. Jane Vanessa, b. 1898; m. 5–7–1915 Jake Vondelo, 
                      Cuba
                    , Ill.
                
              
              3. William Riley, b. 3–7–1860, Nodaway, 
                  Missouri
                , d. 7–17–1936, 
                  Cuba
                , Ill.
              4. Mary E., b. 4–10–1861, Chariton, 
                  Iowa
                , d. 8–6–1863.
              5. Lewis L., b. 4–10–1863, Chariton, 
                  Iowa
                , d. 9–10–1864.
              6. Effie S., b. 8–10–1879, 
                  Cuba
                , Ill., d. 8–10–1879, 
                  Cuba
                , Ill.
              7. Lilly, b. 7–13–1880, 
                  Cuba
                , Ill., d. 8–3–1880, 
                  Cuba
                , Ill.
            
          

          VI. William Riley Atkinson, son of Lewis and Angaline (McNew) Atkinson, b.
                        3–7–1860, d. 7–17–1936; m.
                        3–10–1881 Mary Elizabeth Zimmerman, b. 2–6–1863,
                        Blyton, Ill., dau. of Cornelius and Charlotte Herriford Zimmerman. Children of William Riley and
                        Mary Elizabeth (Zimmerman) Atkinson: 
              1. William 
                  Franklin
                , b. 3–13–1882, 
                  Cuba
                , Ill., d. 10–4–1882, 
                  Cuba
                , Ill.
              2. Lucinda E., b. 5–23–1884, 
                  Cuba
                , Ill.; m. 8–6–1906 Matthew Felix.
              
              3. Florence Myrtle, b. 9–14–1886, 
                  Cuba
                , Ill.; m. 7–18–1918 Arthur Wilson Boswell, son of
                                Cyrus 
                  Clinton
                 Boswell and 
                  Virginia
                 Elizabeth (Fox) Boswell.
              4. Stephen Floyd, b. 9–26–1889, 
                  Cuba
                , Ill.
              5. Cornelius Wesley, b. 9–26–1889, 
                  Cuba
                , Ill.; m. 5–20–1935 Grace MacJordan.
              6. Mary Ula, b. 8–12–1898, 
                  Cuba
                , Ill.; m. 3–20–1916 Elmer Hageman.
              7. Velma Mabel, b. 12–20–1900, 
                  Cuba
                , Ill., d. 7–4–1940, 
                  Cuba

                , Ill.; m. 10–13–1917 Ralph Wells. Children of Ralph
                                and Velma Mabel (Atkinson) Wells: 
                  a. Florence Lou Wells, b. 5–4–1919, 
                      Cuba
                    , Ill.; m. 12–6–1941 Kenneth Atkins.
                  b. Mary Ellen Wells, b. 1–18–1921, 
                      Cuba
                    , Ill.
                  c. Felix Robert Wells, b. 3–31–1922, 
                      Cuba
                    , Ill.
                
              
            
          
        
      
      
        INQUIRY
        I would appreciate information and authority on Thomas and John Atkinson, sons of John Atkinson, of
                    Yorkshire, 
            England
          . These two brothers emigrated to 
            Pennsylvania
           in 1681 and were among the founders of 
            Bucks County
           (see the preceding genealogy). We would like proof of the relationship between these
                    two brothers and Henry Atkinson of old 
            Craven County
          , 
            North Carolina
          .
        Florence Atkinson Boswell, 314 North H. Street, Monmouth, 
            Illinois
          .
      
      
      
        List of Contributors
        Geneal Prather is a teacher of social studies in the Hobart High School, Hobart, Indiana.
        I. George Blake is professor of history at 
            Franklin
           College, 
            Franklin
          , Indiana.
        John D. Barnhart is the editor of the Indiana Magazine of History and a member of
                    the history faculty at Indiana University.
        
          
            Wayne
           E. Stevens is professor of history at Dartmouth College, 
            Hanover
          , 
            New Hampshire
          .
        Max P. Allen is a teacher in the 
            United States
           Naval Training School at Indiana University.
        Oscar O. Winther is a member of the history department at Indiana University.
        Kenneth B. Thurston is a member of the faculty of the University School, Indiana University.
        Florence M. (Atkinson) Boswell is a resident of Monmouth, 
            Illinois
          .
      
    
  
