
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 65, Issue 2, pages 79-156. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:65+issue:2+year:1969&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            
               
                        Providence
                     and the American Past
            Robert P. Hay∗
            
            
                    Americans! Glorious is the inheritance received from your GOD, and handed down by your fathers
                        …. Watch then, with an eagle's eye, and defend with a holy valor, this
                        … liberty. The Almighty, has indeed not dealt so with any nation.1
                  
               
                
            The Reverend Richard Furman of 
                        South Carolina
                     had little patience with those who explained the triumphs of the American liberal
                    experin in terms of natural causes alone. "Some have suggested," chided 
                        Charleston
                     divine in 1802, "that in ascribing our success to the Provide of God, we run
                    into enthusiasm; and detract from the merit of our statesmen and heroes. An objection fraught with
                    so much absurdity, pride, and impiety, does not deserve to be answered," cried the good
                    pastor. Yet, having thus dismissed the foolish notion categorically, he returned to it long enough
                    answer the charge: "It can surely be no disgrace; but an high honor to patriots, to say;
                    'They acted in the cause of God,' and that, 'He smiled their
                        endeavors.'"2 Furman's verbal lashing of his
                    supposedly impious countrymen was hardly necessary. Throughout the first century of their national
                    history, most Americans seem to have believed unquestioningly that the cause of liberty was the
                    cause of God. In accounting for the presence of liberty in their land, Americans unabashedly
                    declared their belief in superintendence of a 
                        Providence
                     who intended man to be free.
            This essay attempts to delineate some of the major facets of the leg of providential protection for
                    the nation as the legend manifested itself popular thought from 1776 to 1876. The study is limited
                    almost exclusively to Fourth of July editorials, odes, and orations. This limitation is made only
                    secondarily because the body of Fourth of July materials, prima in the form of newspaper accounts
                    and pamphlets, is very extensive, more important consideration is that these orations, representing
                    the work of lawyers, clergymen, college professors, politicians, editors, and ordinary citizens,
                    reflect the opinion of a wide cross section of the public. Thus Fourth of July opinions can serve
                    nicely as a microcosm of most generally held ideas concerning American nationalism. Bombastic
                    phrases and pious platitudes made the Fourth of July address a masterpiece of oratory according to
                    the standards of an earlier day. But, as Merle Curti has pointed out, oration nevertheless
                    "epitomized the whole pattern of American patriotic 
                  
                     ∗ Robert P. Hay is assistant professor of history at
                            Marquette University, Milwaukee, 
                                Wisconsin
                            .
                  
                     1 John B. Johnson, The Dealings of God with 
                                    Israel
                                 and America: A Disco delivered on the Fourth of July, 1798 (
                                Albany
                            , 1798), 14.
                  
                     2 Richard Furman, America's Deliverance and
                                Duty. A Sermon Preached at Baptist Church, in 
                                    Charleston
                                , South-Carolina, on the Fourth Day of July, 1802, Be the State Society of
                                the 
                                    Cincinnati
                                , the American Revolution Society; and the Congregation which Usually
                                attends Divine Service in the Said Church (
                                Charleston
                            , 1802), 16.
               
                     thought and feeling."3 In a
                    representative collection of orations, another student has affirmed, "is strikingly
                    enshrined the development and ideologies of the American national spirit itself."4
            
            To avoid possible confusion, three disclaimers must be made. The author does not mean to infer that
                    the idea of a protecting 
                        Providence
                     began suddenly in 1776 or that it ended abruptly one hundred years later. The Puritans
                    had long preceded the Revolutionaries in interpreting their experience as a part of God's
                    plan. Although the notion, in its most blatantly pietistic guise at least, began waning in the
                    latter part of the nineteenth century, largely as a result of the Darwinian and pragmatic
                    revolutions in American thought, as late as 1902 Robert E. Thompson published The Hand
                        of God in American History.5
                The proverbial man on the street may still
                    be heard repeating the 
                        Providence
                     legend, and even the sophisticate often says that history is on the side of the
                    American system. Exploration of the idea in recent times is needed, but the sophisticate's
                    belief may be simply a modern, secular rendition of the old conviction that God in His infinite
                    wisdom will take care of the 
                        United States
                    . Nor, secondly, does the writer mean to imply that expression of the idea was limited
                    in any way to the occasion of the Fourth of July. The legend was much more pervasive than that.6 Finally, the author is not suggesting that the conviction that God has guided
                    the nation's course is unique with American patriots. Such a belief has
                    been a common element of many nationalisms.7 Yet, if not uniquely American, the idea of a protecting 
                        Providence
                     was characteristic of American patriotism. Indeed, so primary was
                    this theme that no study of American nationalism can possibly ignore it and remain faithful to
                    historical fact.
            During a whole century of Fourth of July celebrating, one heard repeatedly that 
                        Providence
                     had reserved this western world to be the theatre of the last experiment in
                    self-government, that 
                        Providence
                     had prepared the continent for the arrival of liberty seeking Englishmen, that 
                        Providence
                     had blessed the earliest settlers in peculiar ways, that 
                        Providence
                     had guided the Americans toward nationhood during the dark days of the Revolution, and
                    that in later years 
                        Providence
                     had continued to smile upon this the world's only republic. And all this was
                    for good reason. The American people were the modern 
                        Israel
                     of the Lord, God's peculiar people, who, possessing the truths of religion and
                    politics, were charged with the great mission of showing mankind 
                  
                     3 Merle Curti, The Roots of American Loyalty (
                                New York
                            , 1946), 140-41.
                  
                     4 Cedric Larson, "Patriotism in Carmine: 162 Years of July
                            4th Oratory," Quarterly Journal of Speech, XXVI (February, 1940),
                            12-25.
                  
                     5 Merle Curti, The Roots of American Loyalty, 55.
                  
                     6 See, for examples, Edward McNall Burns, The American
                                Idea of Mission: Concepts of National Purpose and Destiny ( 
                                New Brunswick
                            , N. J., 1957); Paul C. Nagel, One Nation Indivisible: The Union in
                                American Thought, 1776-1861 (
                                New York
                            , 1964); and John William Ward, Andrew Jackson: Symbol for an
                            Age (
                                New York
                            , 1955).
                  
                     7 See Boyd C. Shafer, Nationalism: Myth and Reality (
                                New York
                            , 1955), 17-21.
               
                     by marvelous example the proper way for man to live with man in
                    society. As God's chosen people in the modern world, Americans believed that they must
                    recognize and respect the vital link between religion and liberty. That true freedom was somehow
                    dependent upon Christianity, they were certain. If, then, liberty was to continue to flourish, if
                    America was to remain basking in the smiles of an approving heaven, the nation must always be one of
                    sincere Christian patriots.
            According to this 
                        Providence
                     legend, the American liberal experiment had nothing short of a divine origin. In a
                    century when American nationalists were plagued by doubts and fears that their vaunted republic
                    might go the way of 
                        Greece
                     and 
                        Rome
                    , to say nothing of lesser states, it was reassuring indeed to believe that their
                    patriotic aspirations were at the same time the commands of an omniscient, omnipotent, omnipresent
                    God. As one explores the dimensions of this 
                        Providence
                     legend, one discovers the abundant proof that Americans offered to support their faith.
                    To a sophisticated generation schooled in more nearly "objective" or
                    "scientific" history, this "proof" may seem hopelessly naive and
                    utterly unconvincing. But the importance of the 
                        Providence
                     legend lies not in a present day evaluation of its objective validity but in the great
                    subjective appeal it had for the first century of American nationalists. "The nation,
                    expanding violently, needed confidence to carry on its gigantic task," John William Ward
                    has said. "In its optimism it firmly believed that God had foreordained its success and it
                    therefore saw God's hand in the most unlikely places. There is no sense in protesting the
                    logic of the confident creed of expansion since, in the human process of self-justification, logic
                    has little place."8 These earlier Americans, it seems clear, believed.
            Among those who shared the popular view that 
                        Providence
                     had from the beginning of time ordained that man should be free was Amos Kendall. When
                    this 
                        Kentucky
                     editor wrote his heroic poem of more than three hundred lines in honor of the
                    nation's fortieth birthday, he thought it natural to begin with these words: 
                        When the Creator with Almighty hand, Spread forth the ocean and built up the land, To angels
                            he proclaimed the first decree, The first great right of man is liberty. The sons of Adam
                            knew no ruler's care, From land to land they wandered free as air,
                        No tyrant then with sceptre red with blood, Reigned o'er the land or rode the flood;
                        No ideot [sic] lords or haughty nobles then Wore gems & diamonds
                            bright with tears of men, Or saw ten thousand slaves their tribute bring To deck a strumpet
                            or adorn a king.
                    
                    
                  
                     8 Ward, Andrew Jackson, 110-11.
               
                     For some reason as illogical as his eating the forbidden fruit
                    in Eden, man had turned his back on his initial freedom. As Kendall put it, man "Bowed to a
                    mortal, and forgot his God." Once he had tasted tyranny, there was plenty of time for
                    regret; but not in 
                        Greece
                     and 
                        Rome
                     and certainly not in the "Dark Ages" had man been able to regain that
                    liberty that had been his birthright. In politics as in religion, however, God gave rebellious man a
                    second chance. As Kendall expressed it, 
                        God in mercy to mankind oppressed Prepared for them a refuge in the West, And by 
                                Columbus
                             to their view unfurled The blissful regions of this western world.9
                  
                    
            
            On the same day that Kendall recited his poem to a 
                        Kentucky
                     throng, a 
                        Massachusetts
                     clergyman was assuring his congregation in a similar manner that "The genius
                    of 
                        Columbus
                     was illumined, his soul fortified, and his little vessel guided by an agency evidently
                    not his own."10 The discoverer of America was not just a mariner in the
                    employ of Queen Isabella; he was the agent of God. There were two popular explanations for the
                    providential timeliness of this voyage by the Admiral of the Ocean Sea. The faithful patriot could
                    believe with Daniel A. Clark, a 
                        New Jersey
                     orator, that "Divine Goodness, which had long kept it [the American Continent]
                    in reserve for us, raised it into view just at the moment when oppression was preparing our fathers
                    to wish and pray for some asylum where they and their children might be free."11
                    
                        Providence
                    , according to this view, called forth the New World to redress the political and
                    spiritual tyranny of the Old.
            Still, it was possible to hold to the theory that God revealed this continent only when conditions in
                    Europe were becoming better for liberty, not worse. In his 1855 anniversary address, Augustus
                    Woodbury explained to a 
                        Massachusetts
                     audience that political and spiritual revolutions were required to bring to the fore
                    men equal to the task of planting American colonies dedicated to freedom. Magna Carta and the
                    Protestant Reformation marked the commencement of this political and spiritual liberty, the orator
                    insisted. "Was it by chance that this broad expanse of country … remained
                    unsettled … till there were Protestant Republicans to settle it?" Woodbury
                        demanded.12 Another 
                        Massachusetts
                     patriot, Caleb Cushing, could have supplied the obvious answer. For in a later oration
                    on the same theme, 
                  
                     9
                            
                                Georgetown
                             (Ky.) Patriot, July 13, 1816.
                  
                     10 Daniel C. Sanders, An Address, Delivered in Medford,
                                4th July, 1816 (Dedham, Mass., 1816), 3.
                  
                     11 Daniel A. Clark, Independence—Sermon,
                                Delivered July 4, 1814, at 
                                    Hanover
                                , N. Jersey (
                                Newark
                            , N. J., 1814), 8. See also, James 
                                Hamilton
                            , Jr., An Oration, Delivered on the Fourth of July, 1821, before
                                the 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 and Revolution Societies (
                                Charleston
                            , S. C., 1821), 5, and Thomas Buford, Address, delivered on the
                                Fourth of July, 1846, at Midway, Woodford Co., Ky. (
                                Lexington
                            , Ky., 1846), 3.
                  
                     12 Augustus Woodbury, The Character and Influence of
                                American Civilization. An Oration delivered before the Authorities of 
                                    Lowell
                                , July 4, 1855 (
                                Lowell
                            , Mass., 1855), 5.
               
                     Cushing was moved to cry out: "I say once
                    again—wonderful, most wonderful, was that Divine 
                        Providence
                    , which had thus prepared and held in reservation" this new "Eden of
                    God" until Europe's most intense political and spiritual upheavals had produced
                    men worthy to colonize the New World, colonizers deserving enough to be called "the Adam
                    and Eve of the new creation."13
            
            Moreover, God had created the New World in such a way as to entice to its shores only those who
                    valued liberty more than pelf. How fortunate indeed for freedom that "No Eldorado hung down
                    its golden fruit to the touch, or spread out its pavement of precious stones beneath the feet, of
                    English explorers."14 One orator could praise 
                        Providence
                     because America had not been peopled by "the subjects of Catholic 
                        Spain
                    , searching for gold, but by the free men of Protestant 
                        England
                    , fleeing from the oppression … which was binding them at home."15 Another patriot could assure his Fourth of July audience that adventurers and
                    fortune hunters had had but scant success in North America because "the Almighty reserved
                    this spot of the globe on purpose as an asylum for our persecuted ancestors."16 Clearly the Almighty had fashioned in North America a habitat for freedom. In that
                    occult logic in which many an American patriot specialized, it was "almost a maxim that
                    freedom flourishes most in tractless deserts and lofty mountains."17
                    And here was a virgin land, immense and fertile. Thus when the Pilgrims landed, their love of
                    liberty was "strengthened by the very scenery of the country they had chosen to inhabit.
                    Every thing around them retained the primitive features of nature."18
                    Since river, lake, mountain, and forest stood in their "original integrity," the
                    settlers necessarily resolved that "man, too, should maintain the proud dignity of his nature."19 Simply to live in such a land made it
                    unlikely that man would allow infringements to be made on his liberties.
            But America was not really a virgin; already she had yielded up her charms to the red man. Already
                    the Indian made his home in those "tract-less deserts and lofty mountains" where
                    freedom flourished. What had 
                        Providence
                     planned for him? In a word, destruction. Even "a pious mind," like
                    that of an 1816 orator, could discern the hand of God in the decimation of the New World's
                    "heathen" inhabitants. By the time of the first settlers' arrival, their
                    "Protector through the sea had made ready for them a large place on the land."
                    Some of the Indian tribes had become wholly extinct, 
                  
                     13 Caleb Cushing, Oration delivered before the Tammany
                                Society, or Columbian Order, at Tammany Hall, on Monday, July 5th, 1858 (
                                New York
                            , 1858), 6.
                  
                     14 Charles W. Upham, Oration, delivered at the request of
                                the City Authorities of 
                                    Salem
                                , July 4, 1842 (
                                Salem
                            , Mass., 1842), 9.
                  
                     15 Augustus Woodbury, The Character and Influence of
                                American Civilization, 5.
                  
                     16 John Cushing, A Discourse, Delivered at Ashburnham,
                                July 4, 1796 (Leominster, Mass., 1796), 7.
                  
                     17
                            
                                Lexington
                             (Ky.) Reporter, July 11, 1809.
                  
                     18 Robert Elfe, An Oration on the Forty Fifth Anniversary
                                of American Independence, Delivered before the 
                                    Charleston
                                 Riflemen (
                                Charleston
                            , S. C, 1821), 14.
                  
                     19
                            
                                Frankfort
                             (Ky.) Commonwealth, July 19, 1837.
               
                     and all had been greatly reduced in number by intertribal wars,
                    by pestilence, by vice, "and by the dreadful judgments of heaven. By other power than that
                    of man, the heathen had been cast out, and large room made for the people of God."20 There was no need to cry injustice at the fate of the first Americans because "
                        Providence
                     for its own good purposes" destined "a peculiar people" to
                    oust the new "Canaanites."21 Indeed, to cry injustice was to
                    question the Deity.
            The time and the place and the men had thus been providentially selected. The actual crossing of the
                    Pilgrims was the theme of hundreds of patriotic poems and songs. Typical was one penned by George W.
                    Adams, the son of John 
                        Quincy
                     Adams, for the fiftieth anniversary celebration in 
                        Boston
                    : 
                        Across the wide ocean the poor Pilgrim came, To worship his God as his free conscience
                            taught;
                        For a pillar of cloud and pillar of flame, He trusted his Father, whose service he sought.
                        Mid storms he came o'er To this iron bound shore,
                        To see the fair land of his sires no more; Nor vain was his effort: God favor'd the
                            free, And gave him a Refuge across the rude sea.22
                  
                    This aspect of the legend demonstrates how carefully patriots selected their facts in order
                    to make them fit. For the Adamses of 
                        Massachusetts
                     were not alone in portraying the Pilgrim Fathers as God's seed, carefully
                    selected for the planting of America. A Kentuckian was also fond of saying that Americans were
                    descended, spiritually at least, from that "handful of wretched pilgrims [who] landed upon
                    our shores."23 It was patriotic to gloss over the economic motive for
                    colonization, to forget the profiteers in the 
                        London
                     Company and the gold seekers of Jamestown. 
                        Plymouth
                     was the American patriot's ancestral home.
            Once the Pilgrims arrived, 
                        Providence
                     assisted them in their early trials. To later Americans, the very survival of those
                    colonists seemed almost miraculous. One 
                        New Hampshire 
                     clergyman was so struck by this realization that in 1825 he preached his Fourth of July
                    sermon on that theme, taking as his text Psalms 74:2, 3: "If it had not been the Lord, who
                    was on our side, when men rose up against us; then they had swallowed us up quick, when their wrath
                    was kindled against us." When the colonists were "repeatedly 
                  
                     20 Daniel C. Sanders, An Address, Delivered in Medford,
                                4th July, 1816, 3-4. See also, A. L. Stone, An Oration delivered
                                before the Municipal Authorities of the City of 
                                    Boston
                                , at the Celebration of the Seventy-Eighth Anniversary of American
                                Independence, July 4, 1854 (
                                Boston
                            , 1854), 11.
                  
                     21 Benjamin Faneuil Hunt, An Oration, Delivered by their
                                appointment, before the 
                                    Washington
                                 Society, in 
                                    Charleston
                                , South-Carolina, on the 4th of July, 1839 (
                                Charleston
                            , 1839), 8.
                  
                     22
                            
                                Frankfort
                             (Ky.) Argus of Western America, August 30, 1826.
                  
                     23
                            
                                Frankfort
                            
                            Commonwealth, July 21, 1846.
               
                     upon the very brink of ruin," 
                        Providence
                     intervened. Especially did it seem providential that the Indians often lived in peace
                    with the colonists in the early days when the whites were few. Had the savages attacked the settlers
                    then, "nothing but a miracle could have saved them. But God mercifully disposed the savages
                    to live with them on terms of peace and friendship, for a number of years, till they had extended
                    their settlements, and greatly increased in numbers and strength."24
                    Thus the 
                        Providence
                     of this nationalist legend was considered to be exclusively a white man's God.
                    The Indians not actually destroyed "by the dreadful judgments of heaven"25 were made too docile to resist "the Adam and Eve of the new
                        creation,"26 at least until it was too late.
            Perhaps even more in the crises of the Revolution than in the colonial beginnings could the
                    beneficence of 
                        Providence
                     be seen. Later American nationalists never tired of relating the
                    revolutionaries' obvious reliance upon God. "Indeed," wrote a 
                        Louisville
                     journalist in his 1841 Fourth of July editorial, "when we contemplate their
                    position and the circumstances which surrounded them, we are forced to the conclusion that those
                    master-spirits of seventy-six were fully aware of the responsibility of the part which 
                        Providence
                     had assigned to them to perform."27 Despite the
                    editor's rhetoric, his conclusion was one to which most Americans did not have to be
                    "forced."
            Nor was the Whigs' dependence upon heaven recognized only from the vantage point of many
                    years. At the first celebration of the Fourth of July the theme was stressed. "Let others
                    attach'd to a false philosophy, ascribe the seperation [sic] of the 
                        United States
                     of America from Great-Britain to moral and natural causes, without taking into view the
                    providential concern of the Most High in order to the accomplishment of his own divine
                    purpose," cried the Reverend William Gordon, 
                        Boston
                    's orator in 1777, "but let every religious assembly say, the king hearkened not unto the people, for the cause was from the Lord; this thing is from
                            God."28
                In a ditty penned in 1785 one patriotic wag used
                    less pious words to express his similar belief that the Revolution was providential: 
                        When pregnant nature strove relief to gain Her nurse was 
                                Washington
                            , her midwife Paine; The infant Independence
                            scarce began To be, e're he ripen'd into man; 
                                
                                    France
                                
                             his god father, Britain was his rod, Congress his guardian, and his father GOD.29
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     24 Jonathan Ward, A Sermon, delivered at 
                                    Plymouth
                                , N. H., July 4, 1825, in Commemoration of American Independence (
                                Plymouth
                            , 1826), 7-9.
                  
                     25 Daniel C. Sanders, An Address, Delivered in Medford,
                                4th July, 1816, 3-4.
                  
                     26 Caleb Cushing, Oration, delivered before the Tammany
                                Society …, 6.
                  
                     27
                            
                                Louisville
                            
                            Daily Journal, July 5, 1841. See also, the 
                                Charleston
                             (S.C.) Courier, July 4, 1803.
                  
                     28 William Gordon, The separation of the Jewish tribes,
                                after the death of Solomon, accounted for, and applied to the present day, in a sermon
                                preached before the General court, on Friday, July the 4th, 1777. Being the anniversary
                                of the Declaration of independency (
                                Boston
                            , 1777), 26-28.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            
                        
                                    Virginia
                                 Gazette and 
                                    Richmond
                                 and 
                                    Manchester
                                 Advertiser, July 7, 1794.
               
                     These lines in addition suggest what was considered to be the
                    ultimate cause of the Revolutionary War: God's ordering of nature in such a way that she
                    must eventually give rise to a new, independent nation in the West. "The author of creation
                    seems to have stampt it on the first page of the great volume of nature, that America should be
                    mistress of herself," insisted Benjamin Hichborn of 
                        Boston
                     two years after the Treaty of 
                        Paris
                     had formally ended the war.30 The thesis did not soon lose its
                    appeal. Years later David Ramsey reassured a group of South Carolinians celebrating the Fourth of
                    July that "The God of order and of justice could never have decreed the subjection of a
                    great continent, to a paltry island, on the other side of the ocean…. The voice of
                    reason, justice, and truth, cries out against it."31 Of course what
                    cried loudest against "the subjection," though Ramsey and his hearers were
                    doubtless sincerely enamored of their own explanation, was the voice of an ardent patriotism.
            In the more immediate causes of the separation of the "great continent" from the
                    "paltry island," greater than mortal power was again manifested, according to the
                    legend. Had Britain heeded the colonists' just remonstrances, opined a 
                        Charleston
                     orator in 1810, the Union Jack might still have been waving in America. After some
                    reconsideration, however, he modified his position, declaring that the "weak-sighted and
                    corrupt ministry" of Great Britain had probably pursued the only course it could, given the
                    extenuating circumstance. For "that 
                        Providence
                    , which rendered Belshazzar [i. e., Nebuchadnezzar] deaf to the instructions of Daniel,
                    until his folly was recorded in the ruin of his throne, blinded the ministry to the interests of
                    their country, and caused them … to cut the golden cord, that connected America and
                        Britain."32 Edmund Burke and the party of conciliation could not
                    possibly have overcome the 
                        Providence
                     induced inanity of king, ministry, and Parliament.
            American patriots celebrating their national holiday also pointed to the conduct of the War for
                    Independence as further proof of the workings of God. Daniel Webster was fond of summing up the
                    whole matter by saying that "the kind hand of over-ruling 
                        Providence
                     conduct[ed] us, through toils, fatigues and dangers, to Independence and
                        Peace."33 Such a general statement about the divine intervention
                    probably satisfied many. Yet if any man had pangs of doubt, there was abundant and more detailed
                    evidence that the 
                  
                     30 Benjamin Hichborn, An Oration, delivered before the
                                Inhabitants of the Town of 
                                    Boston
                                , on the Fourth of July, 1784 (
                                Boston
                            , 1784), 14. See also, William J. Hobby, An Oration Delivered in 
                                    St. Paul
                                's Church, Augusta, on the Fourth of July, One Thousand Seven
                                Hundred and Ninety-Eight, being the Twenty-Second Anniversary of American
                            Independence (Augusta, Ga., 1798), 6.
                  
                     31 David Ramsey, An Address Delivered on the Fourth of
                                July, 1820, by appointment of '76 Association (
                                Charleston
                            , S. C., 1820), 3.
                  
                     32 Hext M'Call, An Oration, Delivered in St.
                                Michael's Church, before the Inhabitants of 
                           Charleston, South
                                Carolina
                        , on the Fourth of July, 1810, in Commemoration of
                                American Independence (
                                Charleston
                            , 1810), 6.
                  
                     33
                            The Writings and Speeches of Daniel Webster (18 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1903), XV, 479.
               
                     struggle was a glorious event in the moral government of God.
                    "That it was the purpose of GOD it [the Revolution] should be," declared a Fourth
                    of July orator in 1789, "is evident in his almost miraculous interpositions in favor of
                        it."34 A later patriot was even more emphatic: "Thousands
                    of instances, in the course of our astonishing revolution, of the miraculous interposition of
                    providential assistance, must convince the most hardened and inveterate of infidels."35 No American was so "hardened" as to need to hear all these
                    "thousands" of instances related one by one. Consequently orators commonly dwelt
                    on only a few of them. Considering the odds that the American colonists faced, Paul Allen, a 
                        Massachusetts
                     patriot, could ask: what gave the Americans the courage to promulgate the Declaration
                    of Independence in the first place? What caused them to challenge the military and naval power of
                    the British Empire? The question was raised solely for effect, of course. For, as Allen delighted in
                    pointing out, "The answer is easy. A certain grandeur of heart, the property of but few,
                    who may in the strictest sense be called Heaven's favourites." Indeed, while
                    proclaiming their nation's independence, these revolutionaries scarcely appeared to be
                    human at all. They were "under the operation of superior power; it was not until its
                    departure, that they sunk down to the level of mortals."36
            
            Selleck Osborn, a 
                        Connecticut
                     orator, was more fascinated with the early unity that the colonists displayed in
                    supporting the war effort, despite the dissimilarity of their ethnic and national backgrounds. In
                    the singlemindedness with which they rallied around the standards of freedom and nationality, this
                    Fourth of July speaker saw clearly "the protecting aid of heaven…. What but this
                    could have given such a spirit of harmony, such strength of union and such concert of action to a
                    widely scattered people, of various habits and pursuits?"37 To
                    Osborn's hearers—who could easily ignore the fact, if they knew it, that about
                    one third of the colonists were Loyalists at heart while another one third were indifferent to the
                    American cause—the answer was obvious.
            Another manifestation of divine intercession in the Revolution was God's providing the
                    infant American nation with a father. One patriotic pastor explained in 1803 that just as 
                        Providence
                     had raised up men of old to do 
                  
                     34 Samuel Stillman, An Oration, Delivered July 4th, 1789,
                                at the Request of the Inhabitants of 
                                    Boston
                                , in Celebration of the Anniversary of American Independence (
                                Boston
                            , 1789), 5.
                  
                     35 Nathaniel Cogswell, An Oration, delivered before the
                                Republican Citizens of 
                                    Newburyport
                                , on the Fourth of July, 1808 (
                                Newburyport
                            , Mass., 1808), 7.
                  
                     36 Paul Allen, An Oration, Delivered on the Fourth of
                                July, A. D. 1806, in the Congregational Meeting-House, in the East Precinct of Rehoboth, 
                                    Massachusetts
                                
                      (
                                Providence
                            , R. I., 1806), 6-7. There were many poetic variations on the theme that the
                            Declaration was a "Divine Decree" or at least made "at
                            Heav'n's command." For illustrations, see the 
                        
                                    Virginia
                                 Gazette and 
                                    Richmond
                                 and 
                                    Manchester
                                 Advertiser, July 21, 1794; the 
                                Frankfort
                             (Ky.) Palladium, July 4, 1799; and the 
                                Charleston
                             (S. C.) Courier, July 4, 1810, July 4, 1846.
                  
                     37 Selleck Osborn, An Oration, commemorative of American
                                Independence, delivered to a Republican Audience at New-
                                    Bedford
                                , Mass. July Fourth, 1810 (New 
                                Bedford
                            , 1810), 9.
               
                     his will, so the 
                        United States
                     had been led in the cabinet and in the field by men who held commissions from on high.
                    "Such distinguished characters have … been as really [sic]
                    fitted by heaven … as these worthies of old. Who but an infidel does not see the hand of
                    heaven, in raising up and qualifying a WASHINGTON for the several important
                    stations he so ably filled?"38
            
            The interventions of 
                        Providence
                     in the fields of battle were often cited aspects of the national legend. Considering
                    the disparity between the British and American armies in training, in experience, and in equipment,
                    what patriot could doubt that heaven had given the Americans their victory? A Kentuckian was
                    repeating a commonplace when he summed up the whole Revolutionary War in a single Fourth of July
                    sentence: "At last we were victorious; the hand of 
                        Providence
                     was made manifest in every struggle that we fought, and we seemed to be under the
                    protection of Omnipotence."39
            
            Even the skeptic could behold the hand of God through the smoke of battle at Trenton or Saratoga or
                    Yorktown. But where, he might inquire, was 
                        Providence
                     when the Americans met defeat? A South Carolinian modified the legend to make it fit
                    these facts: "Some of the disasters which befel [sic] ourselves may be
                    assigned to the same cause [as our victories]; though as mercifully intended to convince us, when
                    become confident and secure, where our true strength lay."40 The
                    defeats in 
                        Canada
                     and on the Lakes, the repulse at Savannah, and the fall of 
                        Charleston
                    —all these were, rightly viewed, the necessary warnings of the Diety that the
                    Americans must not become cocky or forget their utter dependence on 
                        Providence
                    .
            When the founding fathers sought to secure in the Constitution the liberties recently defended in
                    battle, the smiles of heaven were still upon them. Surely it was providential that newly independent
                    states of many diverse interests could, in defiance of all precedent, achieve "the
                    voluntary and peaceable adoption of a system of government, the traits of which are power with responsibility, and liberty without licentiousness."41 That such a marvelous event could
                    transpire, one contemporary Fourth of July orator from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     could only ascribe "with all the glow of piety, to the interposition of that
                    BEING whose Throne is exalted in the highest heavens."42 Later patriots
                    continued to echo the belief that the nation under the Articles 
                  
                     38 Samuel Taggart, An Oration: Spoken at Colrain, July 4,
                                1803. Being the Anniversary of American Independence (
                                Greenfield
                            , Mass., 1803), 9. "WASHINGTON!—A seeming emanation of the
                            divinity, charged with the salvation of his country!" cried Keating Lewis Simons in
                                An Oration, Delivered in the Independent Circular Church, Before the
                                Inhabitants of 
                                    Charleston
                                , South-Carolina, on Friday, the Fourth of July, 1806; in Commemoration of
                                American Independence (
                                Charleston
                            , [1806]), 11.
                  
                     39
                            
                                Frankfort
                            
                            Commonwealth, August 3, 1847.
                  
                     40 Richard Furman, America's Deliverance and
                                Duty … , 12.
                  
                     41
                            
                                
                                    Maryland
                                 Journal and 
                                    Baltimore
                                 Advertiser, July 10, 1789. The oration was delivered by the Reverend
                            William Rogers before a July Fourth meeting of the 
                                Pennsylvania
                             State Society of the 
                                Cincinnati
                            .
                  
                            42
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     of Confederation was rapidly approaching "anarchy and
                        disorganization"43 and that ratification of the Constitution was a
                    providentially inspired preventive to national disaster.
            Faced on every hand with this plentiful evidence that God had been active in the establishment of
                    their nation, few patriots were inclined to disagree when reminded that, great as the Whigs of 1776
                    were in their own right, they were venerable principally because they were "the illustrious
                    agents employed in the divine commission of our country's emancipation."44 Behind the Washingtons and the Jeffersons, yea even behind the Sam Adamses
                    and the Patrick Henrys, there was God.
            Americans not only related their colonial and revolutionary past in such a way as to make
                    God's guidance the central theme, but there was also a continuing awareness throughout the
                    nineteenth century that America's liberty and happiness depended upon a merciful 
                        Providence
                    . The realization of this "fact" struck Hezekiah Niles with peculiar
                    force on the "Sabbath of Liberty" in 1824. "I felt disposed to renew my
                    vows," wrote the ardent 
                        Baltimore
                     nationalist, "that … I would continue to do what I could, that we
                    might hold on to the blessings conferred on my country and countrymen, by a beneficent 
                        Providence
                    ."45 Similarly, a 
                        Virginia
                     poet wrote that the Fourth of July brought to all Christians and patriots pride in the
                    nation's glorious past, anticipation of the nation's future grandeur, 
                        And gratitude to Him, its God and Guide, Whose hand sustained it o'er the adverse
                            tide, Wheron 'twas launched, 'mid tempests wild and dark And guards it
                            still, His freedom-freighted ark.46
                  
                    
            
            Year after year holiday orators glowed with pride as they pointed out the stupendous material
                    achievement of the American people. Just as the 
                        Puritan
                     had earlier viewed pecuniary success as a possible sign of his individual election, so
                    patriots now interpreted the material attainments of the nation as a whole as an indication of the
                    divine favor that had been bestowed upon the 
                        United States
                    . "The prosperity that has ever marked this country, but more especially since
                    her independence, is further proof that God is with us," declared a 
                        New Hampshire
                     clergyman in 1829. Standing almost equidistant in time between the panics of 1819 and
                    1837, this patriot could tell his audience that "The Almighty seems to have determined in
                    … [our] favor."47
            
            
               
                  43
                        James D. Hopkins, An Oration Pronounced before the Inhabitants of 
                                Portland
                            , July 4th, 1805, in Commemoration of American Independence
                                (
                     Portland, Maine
                         District, 1805), 11-12.
               
                  44 J. H. Farnham, Oration at 
                     Versailles, Kentucky
                  , July
                        4, 1816, 
                            Georgetown
                        
                        Patriot, July 27, 1816, and 
                            Lexington
                         (Ky.) Reporter, September 18, 1816.
               
                  45
                        Niles' Weekly Register, XXVI (July 10, 1824), 297.
               
                  46 J. B. Clarke, Poem, for the Celebration, by the Public
                            Schools, and Citizens of Wheeling, Va., of the National Anniversary, July 4, 1849
                        (Wheeling, 1849), 4.
               
                  47 J. N. Maffitt, Oration at Portsmouth, 
                            New Hampshire
                        , July 4, 1829, 
                            Dover
                         (N. H.) 
                     
                                Dover
                             Gazette and Strafford Advertiser, July 14, 1829.
            
            
            The protection of 
                        Providence
                     seemed obvious in good times, but especially in periods of national adversity Americans
                    could behold the hand of God leading them on. Virtually every crisis resulted in the extension and
                    embellishment of the 
                        Providence
                     legend. Decrying in 1812 the British attempts to goad the Indians onto the warpath and
                    to stir up strife and treason within the 
                        United States
                     as a prelude to John Bull's endeavor to reconquer his lost provinces, a
                    Kentuckian exulted: "But HE, who holds the destiny of nations in hands, overruled the
                    perfidious attempt, and we were saved."48 Despite a year of military
                    reverses, George Hay could assure the residents of 
                        Richmond
                     in 1813 that heaven had decreed that the British plan to overwhelm the young republic
                    must ultimately fail. "Engaged as we are in a just cause, the blessings of Almighty God
                    will be upon us."49 Hay believed that both the Almighty and the
                    Americans were the adversaries of Britain.
            Perhaps the most remarkable "divine intercession" of the entire century occurred on
                    July 4, 1826, as millions of Americans were celebrating their nation's fiftieth birthday.
                    Just as patriots were praising Thomas Jefferson and John Adams for their revolutionary deeds and for
                    their long lives spent in the nation's service, the two "Patriarchs"
                    died. In this timely event, which few believed to be mere coincidence, Daniel Webster discerned the
                    work of God: "As their lives themselves were the gifts of 
                        Providence
                    , who is not willing to recognize in their happy termination, as well as in their long
                    continuance, proofs that our country and its benefactors are objects of His care?"50 By calling away these two founding fathers on the fiftieth Fourth of July,
                    heaven demonstrated anew its favor to the nation that they had been instrumental in establishing.
                    What great orators proclaimed at the memorial services in the large cities, little known speakers
                    declared in hamlets throughout the land. Meeting in Macon to consider the "Wonderful
                    coincidence!" Georgians concluded with eulogist James S. Frierson that the American mind,
                    searching for causes, "wanders through a labarinth [sic] of
                    difficulty—is lost in its own investigation—recoils upon itself, and is forced
                    to this conclusion—it is the work of Him who governs all!"51
                    When, shortly after July 4, "a celebrated Mathematician" calculated that the
                    chance of this occurrence was "only one in twelve hundred
                            millions,"52
                this statistical 
                  
                     48 Jesse Head, Oration in 
                        Mercer
                                    County, Kentucky
                     , July
                            4, 1812, 
                                Lexington
                             (Ky.) Reporter, August 1, 1812.
                  
                     49 George Hay, Oration at 
                        Richmond, Virginia
                            , July 5, 1813, 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Enquirer; reprinted in two parts in the 
                                Lexington
                             (Ky.) Reporter, August 7, 14, 1813.
                  
                     50
                            Writings and Speeches of Daniel Webster, I, 290-91. See also, Charles
                            Francis Adams (ed.), Memoirs of John 
                                    Quincy
                                 Adams, Comprising Portions of His Diary from 1795 to 1848 (12 vols., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1874-1877), VII, 122, 125; Nties' Weekly Register,
                            XXX (August 5, 1826), 403-408; Caleb Cushing, A Eulogy on John Adams and Thomas
                                Jefferson, Pronounced in 
                                    Newburyport
                                , July 15, 1826 (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1826), 3-4, 9-11, 52.
                  
                     51 Macon 
                        
                                    Georgia
                                 Messenger, August 22, 1826. See also, the Edwardsville (Ill.) Spectator, August 25, 1826.
                  
                     52
                            
                                New Haven
                             (Conn.) Columbian Register, July 22, 1826. Still remoter
                            odds, "more than 1721 millions to 1 against," appeared in the Chameleon, a student publication of the University of 
                                Virginia
                            , and were reprinted in the 
                        
                                    Dover
                                 Gazette and Strafford Advertiser, July 12, 1831.
               
                     proof only lent the confirmation of the head to what Americans
                    already believed in their hearts. Just five years later, when 
                        Providence
                     again "interceded" by calling James 
                        Monroe
                     to rest on the Fourth of July, the legend received anew the sanctity of sober fact.53
            
            Even when American leaders died under less fortuitous circumstances, eulogists reiterated their
                    conviction that the demise of a few great statesmen could not adversely affect the heaven directed
                    flow of American history. 
                        Washington
                     and all the "Fathers of the Republic are gone," lamented the Reverend
                    Dr. Gardiner Spring in 1852.54 Indeed, the second generation of American leaders
                    was now passing from the scene. John 
                        Quincy
                     Adams and John G. Calhoun had recently died, and on this Fourth of July morning New
                    Yorkers heard a eulogy for Henry 
                        Clay
                    , who had died five days before in 
                        Washington
                    . Still, there was little cause for despair, Dr. Spring insisted, for "our
                    liberties are not buried in the tombs of our great men! Our Liberties survive, and preserved by the
                    GOD of Nations [we] will be free! 'Whom the Son maketh free is free indeed!'
                        "55
            
            During the Civil War, the greatest test of American nationality, more than one Unionist attempted to
                    quiet the fears of skeptics by Fourth of July assurances that "God did not create this fair
                    land to be the theatre of unceasing anarchy and strife. The rebellion will be subdued….
                    The hand of a great destiny beckons us on."56 That Confederates also
                    claimed that their cause represented the will of heaven only emphasizes the importance of the idea
                    of a protecting 
                        Providence
                     in the popular thought of all the nation's sections. When, shortly before the
                    Fourth of July, 1862, the Confederate capital withstood a Yankee onslaught, the editor of the Daily 
                            Richmond
                         Enquirer interpreted the meaning of the triumph for his readers: "The
                    God of Battles has given us the victory over our enemies; they have been driven from the gates of
                    the city; the army sent to crush and subjugate us has been defeated, routed, almost completely
                    decimated." There was no Fourth of July glorification, pyrotechnic displays, or idle
                    boasting in 
                        Richmond
                    , however. Instead several churches were thrown open, and "the peer and the
                    peasant knelt in humble thankfulness to the Lord on high, that we had been delivered from
                    bondage." This was but the natural thing to do, the editor believed; for "to God
                    is all the glory due, and accorded."57
            
            
               
                  53 For illustrations of popular opinion, see Niles'
                            Weekly Register, XL (July 23, 1831), 371; 
                            New York
                        
                        Evening Post, as reprinted in the Trenton (N. J.) Emporium and
                            True American, July 9, 1831; and the 
                            New York
                        
                        Evening Post, July 5, 1831, as reprinted in the York (Pa.) Gazette, July 12, 1831.
               
                  54
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Daily Times, July 5, 1852.
               
                        55
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  56
                        Celebration of the Eighty-Sixth Anniversary of the Independence of the 
                                United States
                            , in 
                                Chicago
                            , July 4th, 1862 (
                            Chicago
                        , 1862), 20. The orator was B. F. Ayer. See also, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Oration delivered before the City Authorities of 
                                Boston
                            , on the Fourth of July, 1863 (
                            Boston
                        , 1863), 11-12; N. P. Banks, An Address delivered at the Customhouse, 
                                New Orleans
                            , on the Fourth of July, 1865 (n.p., n.d.), 23; Celebration at
                            North Bridge, 
                                Salem
                            , July 4th, 1862 (
                            Boston
                        , 1862), 7-8.
               
                  57
                        Daily 
                                Richmond
                             Enquirer, July 5, 1862. See also, the Mobile (Ala.) Advertiser and Register, July 7, 1864.
            
            
            Military success seemed to sanction northerners as the more rightful claimants of the 
                        Providence
                     legend, though this conclusion was by no means logically inevitable. In any case, those
                    who believed that the Union had been saved by greater than human force found it easy to credit the
                    theory that God had raised up a leader to do His bidding. In his editorial written for "our
                    nation's holyday" in 1865, a 
                        Kentucky
                     Unionist called upon his patrons to pay "tribute to memory of him [Abraham
                    Lincoln] who was the chosen instrument of God to lead us out of the darkness of the past into this
                    marvellous light."58 Similarly, a New Yorker, Seymour L. Stebbins,
                    argued that it was impossible, "even for a mind not accustomed to look beyond natural
                    causes," to reflect on the critical war years without perceiving the fiat of the Almighty.
                    Thus Abraham Lincoln was surely God's instrument for putting down the rebellion and ridding
                    the nation of the dreadful scourge of slavery. To Stebbins it seemed certain that just as
                    "the hand of 
                        Providence
                     has been leading this nation through the bloody past; that hand will guide it through
                    the peaceful future."59
            
            While Fourth of July references to the superintendence of 
                        Providence
                     were fewer after 1865 than before, they were still to be heard. An Indiana Republican,
                    George W. Julian, who insisted that he had "no taste for glittering generalities,"
                    nevertheless included the notion of America's reliance on God in his Fourth of July speech
                    in 1872. Decrying the monopoly of banks, "the railway power," and the precarious
                    position of labor, Julian could still maintain his faith in democracy. Why? Because "the
                    Almighty will not now call a halt in the grand march of events, through which he is bringing our
                    land with real liberties and lasting peace."60
            
            As orators reflected on the first century of American nationality, it seemed to some of them that the
                    legend of a protecting 
                        Providence
                     provided the key to understanding their country's past. Thus in 1876 Colonel
                    Michael P. Nolan reminded residents of 
                  Dayton,
                            Ohio
                    , that 
                        Washington
                     had secured the nation's independence, that Jackson had maintained it at 
                        New Orleans
                     against foreign foes, and that Lincoln had only lately preserved "the ensign
                    of American nationality" from domestic assault. "In the one hundred years which
                    this day terminates," the Fourth of July orator summed up his case, "we have had
                    three grand epochs, and 
                        Providence
                     has furnished us with a man gifted for each emergency."61
            
            Granting that 
                        Providence
                     had obviously been kind to Americans, the skeptic might still have inquired if 
                        Providence
                     had not also blessed Britons and Italians and Greeks. Could a pious Frenchman not
                    discern the hand 
                  
                     58
                            
                                Frankfort
                            
                            Commonwealth, July 4, 1865.
                  
                     59 Seymour L. Stebbins, Oration delivered at the
                                Celebration of the Anniversary of our National Independence, at Rondout, N. Y., July 4,
                                1865 (
                                New York
                            , 1865), 6, 13.
                  
                     60 George W. Julian, Speech at 
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, July 4, 1872, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana State Sentinel, July 9, 1872.
                  
                     61
                            1876. Independence Day. Its Centennial Celebration in 
                                    Dayton
                                
                      (n. p., n. d.), 4-6.
               
                     of God in his nation's past just as clearly as the
                    Yankee beheld it in his? Scoffing at such foolish notions, most Americans would have retorted that
                    God was watching over their liberties with peculiar care. Frequently they used biblical analogies to
                    show the sacredness and exclusiveness of this tie that bound 
                        Providence
                     and the American people, this link joining a nation of patriots and their
                        own national God. Samuel P. P. Fay, for example, likened the emergence of the American
                    nation in the political world to Christ's birth in the spiritual realm. "On one
                    side, the English Herod fought [for] the destruction of our infant state, with all the violence of
                    power, armed with all the machinery of death," explained the 
                        Massachusetts
                     orator at a Fourth of July gathering at Concord in 1801. "On the other, the
                    intrepid votaries of freedom opposed their bosoms in its defence, with all the magnanimity of
                    resolution and despair."62 Another well worn Fourth of July analogy
                    pictured the American colonists as a youthful David battling the dreadful giant, Great Britain; and
                    "like the young hero, relying on the justice of our cause and the smiles of approving
                    heaven, we resisted, we fought, we conquered."63
            
            The idea that America was the special concern of God was most often and most fully developed in the
                    portrayal of the nation as the modern 
                        Israel
                    , the chosen people of the Lord. When seen in this light, the Revolution seemed to be
                    the providential release of the American 
                        Israel
                     from the Egyptian bondage of Great Britain. Looking back upon the struggle after ten
                    years, the former president of Congress, Elias Boudinot, admonished his countrymen "to
                    remember, with reverential gratitude to our supreme Benefactor, all the wonderful things he has done
                    for us, in our miraculous deliverance from a second 
                        Egypt
                    –another house of bondage."64 "Our
                    deliverance from foreign domination may be not inaptly compared to the deliverance
                    of 
                        Israel
                     from Egyptian bondage," agreed the Reverend Eliphalet Nott in his Fourth of
                    July discourse at 
                        Albany
                     in 1801.65 Nor were only northerners and clergymen enamored of the
                    theme. Years later, Francis D. Quash of 
                        South Carolina
                     assured members of the American Revolution Society and the Society of the 
                        Cincinnati
                     that during the War for Independence oppressed freemen had put "their only
                    trust in Him, who never deserts the faithful, who as he once led his chosen people from the
                    task-masters of 
                        Egypt
                    , 
                  
                     62 Samuel P. P. Fay, An Oration, Delivered at Concord, on
                                the Anniversary of American Independence, July 4th, 1801 (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1801), 11.
                  
                     63 Cushing Otis, An Oration, Pronounced at Scituate, July
                                4, 1800, at the Request of the Inhabitants, in Commemoration of American
                            Independence (
                                Boston
                            , 1800), 6. See also, James B. M. Potter, Oration Delivered at
                                Kingston, R. I. July 4, 1843 (
                                Boston
                            , 1844), 10.
                  
                     64 Elias Boudinot, An Oration, Delivered at
                                Elizabeth-Town, New-Jersey, Agreeably to a Resolution of the State Society of 
                                    Cincinnati
                                , on the Fourth of July, M. DCC. XCIII. (Elizabethtown, 1793), 7.
                  
                     65 Eliphalet Nott, A Discourse Delivered in the
                                Presbyterian Church, in 
                                    Albany
                                , the Fourth of July, A.D. 1801. at the Celebration of the Twenty-Fifth
                                Anniversary of American Independence (
                                Albany
                            , 1801), 5.
               
                     was able to carry his American 
                        Israel
                     through the waves and wilderness of revolution, and to place them in
                    the Canaan of peace and independence."66
            
            At this point the 
                        Providence
                     legend transformed the 
                        Mount Vernon
                     planter into the modern Moses. "In the case of the Hebrews, God qualified and
                    raised up Moses, as the leader of his people," a patriotic 
                        Connecticut
                     clergyman reminded his Fourth of July congregation, adding in the same breath,
                    "In like manner, God raised up a WASHINGTON" to guide His American 
                        Israel
                     out of the captivity of British tyranny into the "Promised Land" of
                    liberty and peace.67 To a Mississippian as well as to a New Englander this
                    portrayal of the Father of his Country as the modern Moses seemed entirely apt.68
            
            Still believing that their nation was God's modern 
                        Israel
                    , some later Americans pictured the Civil War as the country's release from the
                    Egyptian bondage of Negro slavery and cast another statesman in the role of the great Hebrew leader.
                    Abraham Lincoln was "our Moses, in this our pilgrimage; and like Moses, only permitted to
                    look at the reward he strove to gain," contended 
                        New Jersey
                     orator Cortlandt Parker in 1865. Indeed, Parker insisted that Lincoln was
                    "better than Moses, in that no aggravation provoked him to undue temper—no dark
                    or sorrowful hour shook his faith in God and his justice." For like the Jewish patriarch
                    whose name he bore, Lincoln had gone forth, "not knowing whither he went, committing his
                    way unto God, and looking only at present duty, 'believed God.' "69 In this way, Parker was striving to make a major facet of the 
                        Providence
                     legend relevant for his own time. The psychological necessity for Parker and his
                    contemporaries to believe that the Civil War had been laden with providential meaning seems obvious.
            Ancient 
                        Israel
                     had been charged with a mission: it was the Hebrews' responsibility to
                    instruct the pagan world in the precepts of the true religion. In like manner, if God had raised up
                    America as His modern 
                        Israel
                    , He must have had a mission for America to accomplish. For what purpose had 
                        Providence
                     raised up a peculiar people in the modern world? Why did there need to be a modern 
                        Israel
                     of the Lord? Time and time again American patriots brought up these logical questions.
                    In fact they did so with enthusiasm, for they were gifted in relating answers which infused being an
                    American with a meaning and purpose that was part of a holy design. Most Americans would probably
                    have agreed with that Fourth of July orator 
                  
                     66 Francis D. Quash, An Oration Delivered on the Fourth
                                of July, 1820, before the 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 and Revolution Societies (
                                Charleston
                            , S. C., 1820), 8. See also, the 
                                Washington
                            , D.C. 
                        
                                    United States
                                ' Telegraph, July 14, 1826, for W. B. Tappan's
                            "Hymn."
                  
                     67 Cyprian Strong, A Discourse, Delivered at Hebron, at
                                the Celebration of the Anniversary of American Independence, July 4th, 1799 (
                                Hartford
                            , 1799), 6. See also, Eliphalet Nott, A Discourse Delivered
                                … in 
                                    Albany
                                
                      …, 15.
                  
                     68 See, for instance, the Natchez (Miss.) Ariel,
                            July 26, 1828.
                  
                     69 Cortlandt Parker, Our Triumph and our New Duties.
                                Oration delivered at 
                                    Bloomfield
                                , N. J., July 4, 1865 (
                                Newark
                            , N. J., 1865), 13.
               
                     of 1799 who held that there was obviously some weightier reason
                    for "the many great and distinguished interpositions of Divine 
                        Providence
                    " in favor of the 
                        United States
                     than the mere granting of a distinct nationhood. It was clear that "GOD has
                    some great and important designs in the event, which has made such a revolution in American affairs,
                    besides raising us to consideration among earthly kingdoms. He is constantly prosecuting his great
                    and glorious purposes."70 Four decades later, Benjamin Faneuil Hunt
                    echoed these sentiments for South Carolinians. "The American Revolution is the instrument
                    by which 
                        Providence
                     is accomplishing the destinies of the world," Hunt told the 
                        Washington
                     Society of 
                        Charleston
                     at its Fourth of July meeting. Nothing since the Christian revelation promised so much
                    of benefit to the masses of mankind.71
            
            The intention of 
                        Providence
                    , it was commonly held, was that America should reverse the verdict of history that
                    republics were unstable and soon came to grief because man was not capable of self-government.
                    "For four thousand years the world has been waiting, hoping, and longing with anxious soul,
                    for an example of self-government, universal intelligence, free conscience, and moral
                    power," a 
                        South Carolina
                     clergyman explained, "and we believe that it is ours to offer that
                        example."72 Such knowledge of God's plan was not the
                    peculiar province of clerics alone, however. When John Palmer, a Briton, attended the Fourth of July
                    ceremony at 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 1817, he heard the entire throng sing a song which suggested that God had decreed
                    from the beginning of time that His modern 
                        Israel
                     should show the world the way to liberty: 
                        When first the sun o'er ocean glow'd, And earth unveil'd her
                            virgin breast; Supreme 'mid nature's vast abode, Was heard the
                            Almighty's dread behest.
                        Rise 
                                Columbia
                            , brave and free, Poise the earth, and rule the sea!
                        In darkness wrapp'd, with fetters chain'd, Will ages grope, debased and
                            blind; With blood the human hand be stain'd, With tyrant power the human mind.73
                  
                     Although the Briton might find in this hymn "too much boasting and
                        bombast,"74 to Americans it seemed to be the common sense of the
                    matter that their nation, in providing the world with an example of the just way 
                  
                     70 Cyprian Strong, A Discourse, Delivered at Hebron
                            …, 16.
                  
                     71 Benjamin Faneuil Hunt, An Oration, Delivered
                            … in 
                                
                                    Charleston
                                
                             …, 6.
                  
                     72 Charles M. Taggart, The Moral Mission of our Country,
                                Two Discourses delivered before the Unitarian Christians, of 
                                    Charleston
                                , S. C. on Sunday, July 3d, 1853 (
                                Charleston
                            , 1853), 11. See also, Isaac N. Shannon, Divine 
                                    Providence
                                 in American history and politics. A Discourse Delivered in the Second
                                Presbyterian Church, New-Brunswick, N. J., July 4, 1852 (
                                New Brunswick
                            , 1852), 3.
                  
                     73 John Palmer, Journal of Travels in the 
                                    United States
                                 of North America, and in Lower 
                                    Canada
                                , performed in the year 1817 … (
                                London
                            , 1818), 81.
                  
                            74
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     for man to live with man in society, was simply obeying
                    "the Almighty's dread behest."
            This conviction seemed to be substantiated by the fact of numerous revolutions abroad. The American
                    mission was having an impact. What had caused the revolutions in 
                        France
                    , in 
                        Poland
                    , in 
                        Greece
                    , in 
                        Italy
                    , not to mention the internal overthrow of most of 
                        Spain
                    's New World empire, "what but the example of the American
                    Union—the Moral sun which God is holding up to illumine and guide the
                    nations, to freedom, to knowledge, and to peace?"75 The French
                    Revolution of 1789, as well as some subsequent foreign revolutions, had eventually become so bloody
                    and socially disruptive that many patriots in the 
                        United States
                     were forced to deny that they were the legitimate offspring of the earlier American
                    rebellion, but this in no way implied fault in the American pattern.76 In some
                    cases the genuine lovers of freedom allegedly were overwhelmed by the too powerful legions of
                    despotism; in others, the rebels themselves were too licentious and unstable to fashion a republic.
                    But let no flaw be imputed to the American example, patriots seemed to be saying. There was nothing
                    wrong with the modern 
                        Israel
                    .
            Even when the European revolutions of the 1820s and 1830s and especially the heartbreaking reversals
                    of 1848 failed to bear out American hopes that despotism was in its waning stages, the appeal of the
                    theme remained powerful. If 
                        Providence
                     had raised up the American 
                        Israel
                     to provide a liberal example for the world, then no temporary setbacks could affect her
                    destiny. Or so it seemed to many patriots. Neither the oppressors in 
                        France
                     and 
                        England
                     nor indeed all the despots of the world combined could possibly halt "the
                    sublime approachings of the Eagle Republic," cried George F. Gordon in 1858. "She
                    soars aloft under the Divine Aegis, the mighty instrumentality for the final overthrow of kingdoms
                    and powers hitherto and always despotic—for the flooding of the nations of the Old World
                    with the American element of freedom!" To this 
                        Philadelphia
                     orator it was vital that his countrymen be "indoctrinated" anew with
                    "the missionary destiny" of the 
                        United States
                    . "There is a great work to be done in the world, and we must do it! Our
                    natural tendencies are all that way, and no diplomatic fogyism can stand in the battle-path of the
                    American democratic element, as it rushes onward destiny-driven and God-directed, baptizing the
                    nations with the American waters of political salvation!"77 The 
                  
                     75 Charles M. Taggart, The Moral Mission of our Country
                                …, 11.
                  
                     76 Orators who believed that the American and French revolutions were
                            basically dissimilar included Richard E. Newcomb, An Oration, Spoken at 
                                    Greenfield
                                , on the Anniversary of American Independence. July 4th. 1799 (
                                Greenfield
                            , Mass., 1799) and Westerlo Woodworth, Oration Delivered before the
                                Young Men's Association, July 4, 1834 (
                                Albany
                            , 1834).
                  
                     77 George F. Gordon, Oration delivered on the
                                Eighty-Second Anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, Monday, July 5th,
                            1858 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1858), 12-13. See also, Henry W. Adams, The Past, Present, and
                                Future of America. An Oration delivered in the First Presbyterian Church,
                                        
                           Orange, New Jersey
                                , July 4th, 1865 (
                                New York
                            , 1865), 9 et passim.
                  
               
                     modern American 
                        Israel
                    , perhaps even superior to the chosen people of the ancient world because she possessed
                    the truths of both religion and politics,78 must constantly
                    keep in mind the world mission that heaven had selected her to perform.
            A final aspect of the legend of a protecting 
                        Providence
                     merits elaboration. Many nineteenth century American nationalists seem to have
                    subscribed to the notion that God best remembers those who remember Him. Everyone knew that whenever
                    ancient 
                        Israel
                     rebelled and broke faith with the Lord, catastrophe ensued. Numerous patriots, carrying
                    the often repeated Fourth of July analogy to its logical conclusion, warned that if the modern 
                        Israel
                     were ungrateful or negligent of her Christian duties, then she too must fall upon evil
                    days. Indeed, so worried were the residents of one tiny 
                        New Jersey
                     hamlet in 1814 that they subscribed for one thousand copies of a Fourth of July sermon
                    which had been preached from the text of Isaiah 1:2: "Hear, O Heavens, and give ear, O
                    earth; for the Lord hath spoken: I have nourished and brought up children, and they have rebelled
                    against me." Recounting "in this evil day" the story of God's
                    deliverance of His American 
                        Israel
                    , the local divine warned that the infidelity of God's modern people had at
                    least equalled—if it did not actually surpass—that of Judah of old. Such
                    degeneracy and rebellion were present in the lack of family prayer, neglect of discipline in
                    families and churches, profanation of the Sabbath, swearing, and intemperance that 
                        Providence
                     might have to chastize His errant American children.79
            
            Few patriots doubted that there was a definite relationship between religion and political stability.
                    John Jones Spooner, a Virginian, told a Fourth of July audience in 1794 that even among the heathens
                    "public affairs were prospered, according as they observed the rites of their
                    religion." At no time were the ancient republics of 
                        Greece
                     and 
                        Rome
                     so prosperous and stable as when "they practiced most assiduously those duties
                    which their religion (erroneous as it was) enjoined upon them," Spooner added.80 If religion in general had a salutary effect upon politics, then
                    Christianity, as the true religion, must surely bolster liberty. "The prevalence of real
                    Christianity, tends to promote the principles and the love of political freedom," declared
                    the Reverend Samuel Miller before the Tammany Society of 
                        New York
                     in 1793. It did this, the divine explained, by teaching the doctrines of the popular
                    basis of all just power and the intrinsic equality of the rulers and the ruled and by inculcating
                    the virtues of moderation, justice, simplicity of manners, brotherly love, and benevolence.
                    Christianity "tends to quench every extravagant thirst for power; to beat down every high
                    thought, that 
                  
                     78 See, John B. Johnson, The Dealings of God with 
                                    Israel
                                 and America …, 14, and the 
                                Frankfort
                            
                            Commonwealth, July 20, 1847.
                  
                     79 Daniel A. Clark, Independence—Sermon
                            …, 3-24.
                  
                     80 John Jones Spooner, A Discourse, Delivered in the
                                Court-House of Prince 
                           George County, Virginia
                                ; on the Anniversary of American Independence, July 4th, 1794
                            (Petersburg, Va., 1795), 10-11.
               
                     exalteth itself against the general good."81 Other patriots might cite different Christian virtues beneficial to
                    republicanism, but the connection between the two was clear. Repeatedly pastors used the occasion of
                    the Fourth of July to tell their congregations that the Bible not only allowed loyalty to country
                    but in fact commanded it. They never tired of reiterating that Christians made the best patriots.
                    They even insisted that the Master had set the example for national loyalty in the love he had for
                    his own native land: "Jesus Christ was a patriot."82
            
            When revolutionary Frenchmen, glorifying human reason and abandoning traditional Christianity, failed
                    to stabilize a liberal regime, Americans interpreted this development as new proof of their general
                    theory that "a departure from the pure principles of religion has been, in all
                        ages, and in every country, the sad prelude to destruction."83 Oliver Cobb of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , who abhorred the radical, anti-Christian course of the French Revolution, warned his
                    countrymen against being influenced by the insidious wiles of those rationalists who held that
                    "religion is nothing but a whim of the imagination" and destructive to freedom.
                    Such a view was totally out of keeping with traditional American commitments, Cobb declared in 1803.
                    If patriots would look back to the colonial and revolutionary periods, they would find that the
                    great leaders then "were not ashamed to acknowledge the superintending 
                        Providence
                     of God—they were not ashamed of a crucified Saviour—they were not
                    ashamed to look to Heaven for the Divine Benediction. In their distress, they did
                    look—they prayed. They were heard—they were answered."84
            
            The idea that freedom was dependent upon religion was not merely a conservative response to the
                    French effort to abolish Christianity, however. The idea long outlived the reaction. Throughout the
                    first century of American nationality the theme was often reiterated. "The Gospel is our only hope," declared the president of Jefferson College in his 1839
                    statement of the view that the nation's liberty was no stronger than its practice of
                    Christian principles. "If we cast this away," he cautioned, "all is lost.
                    If infidelity, ignorance, superstition and vice, shall gain the ascendency, I repeat it, all is
                        lost."85
            
            To be sure, there were many who claimed that only Protestant Christianity could
                    provide a climate for liberty. The Reverend Charles B. Boynton, one of the most outspoken members of
                    this group, told a Fourth of July gathering 
                  
                     81 Samuel Miller, A Sermon, Preached in New-York, July
                                4th, 1793. Being the Anniversary of the Independence of America: at the Request of the
                                Tammany Society, or Columbian Order (
                                New York
                            , [1793]), 15-22.
                  
                     82 George W. Bethune, Our Liberties: Their Danger, and
                                the Means of Preserving Them (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1835), 5-6. See also, W. H. Furness, Two Discourses occasioned by
                                the approaching Anniversary of the Declaration of Independence (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1843), 13; George F. Gordon, Oration delivered on …
                                July 5th, 1858, 1: Patriotism and Christianity are "twin
                            brothers."
                  
                     83 Eliphalet Nott, A Discourse Delivered
                            … in 
                                
                                    Albany
                                
                             …, 23.
                  
                     84 Oliver Cobb, An Oration Delivered in the First
                                Congregational Meeting-House in 
                                    Rochester
                                ; on the Fourth Day of July, 1803 (New 
                                Bedford
                            , Mass., 1803), 10-11.
                  
                     85 Matthew 
                                Brown
                            , Address delivered in the Chapel of Jefferson College,
                                Canons-burgh, Pa., on the Fourth of July, 1839 (
                                Pittsburgh
                            , 1839), 18.
               
                     of native Americans in 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 1847 that "genuine American principles are identical with those of
                    Protestant Christianity."88 As immigration increased and as
                    non-Protestants "threatened" the overwhelming native American majority around the
                    middle of the nineteenth century, one heard with increased frequency the assertion that American
                    liberty "originated with men who read the Bible and found no prelacy there."87 The intimation that only such men could or would preserve freedom was of
                    course obvious.
            Roman Catholics challenged the view that 
                        Providence
                     had raised up His American 
                        Israel
                     as the home of Protestant freemen only.88 It is an indication of
                    the universal popularity of the idea that Christianity and freedom were conjoined that the president
                    of 
                        St. Louis
                     University, like many a Protestant counterpart, used II Corinthians
                    3:17—"Where the spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty."—as
                    the text of his Fourth of July oration.89 However much Protestants and Roman
                    Catholics might quarrel, they both held that Christianity was the basis of true liberty. And both
                    believed that if their countrymen remained true to their Lord, 
                        Providence
                     would go on protecting the American 
                        Israel
                    .
            The nuances involved in the idea of a protecting 
                        Providence
                     and the implications of this idea for American popular thought deserve a thorough
                    study. Yet even this preliminary investigation reveals the widespread appeal of the belief. For most
                    Americans, God was personal, active, and intimately concerned with the course of their
                    nation's history. 
                        Providence
                     had intervened in that history in behalf of the Pilgrims, the revolutionaries, and the
                    Constitution makers and continued to work out His will for America in the present day.
            While admitting the existence of abundant references to 
                        Providence
                     in popular thought from 1776 to 1876, the more secularly oriented student in the
                    twentieth century still may wonder why the legend exercised such a prominent influence. In part the
                    American notion of a protecting 
                        Providence
                     typifies the tendency that western man has always had to think in terms of his
                    Judeo-Christian religious traditions. Even when he has attempted to throw off what he considers to
                    be the religious shackles of the Middle Ages, western man has continued to speak of
                    "inevitability," of "mission," and of
                    "destiny." He has often attempted to submerge his naive faith in God, only 
                  
                     86 Charles B. Boynton, An Oration, Delivered on the Fifth
                                of July, 1847, before the Native Americans of 
                                    Cincinnati
                                
                      (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1847), 7-8.
                  
                     87 Henry A. Rowland, Christian Liberty; or the Elements
                                of Civil and Religious Liberty, growing out of the doctrine of justification by faith,
                                in contrast with civil and religious despotism, originating in the high pretensions of
                                prelacy. A discourse delivered in the Presbyterian Church, Honesdale, Penn., on the
                                Sabbath Evening succeeding the Day commemorative of our national independence (
                                New York
                            , 1850), 43-44.
                  
                     88 For examples of Fourth of July observances by Roman Catholics, see
                            the St. Augustine East 
                                    Florida
                                 Herald, July 11, 1826, and the 
                                Lebanon
                             (Ky.) Post, July 7, 1852; July 13, 1853; July 5, 12, 1854;
                            July 4, 1855.
                  
                     89 J. 
                                Van
                             de Velde, S. J., Oration delivered on the day of the Celebration
                                of the Sixty-Fifth Anniversary of the Proclamation of the Independence of the 
                                    United States
                                 of America, 5th July, 1841 (
                                St. Louis
                            , 1841).
               
                     to replace it with an equally naive faith in
                    Nature, or Science, or the Perfectibility of Man. For example, in his 
                  
                            Heavenly City
                         of the Eighteenth-Century Philosophers, Carl Becker argues convincingly that
                    the period usually referred to as the Age of Reason did not destroy the basically Christian mode of
                    thinking, that Voltaire, Hume, Diderot, and Locke were actually living in a medieval world, and that
                    these philosophers "demolished the 
                        Heavenly City
                     of St. Augustine only to rebuild it with more up-to-date materials."90 If these eighteenth century thinkers, willfully trying to escape their
                    Judeo-Christian concepts, had but scant success, early American patriots, who glorified piety, could
                    hardly be expected to think in nonreligious terms. These Americans, faced with the task of creating
                    a usable past, were molding their nation's history in the religious motif with which they,
                    as westerners in this Judeo-Christian tradition, were most familiar.
            Moreover, the first century of American nationalists lived before the rise of
                    "objective" or "scientific" history. In this period, national
                    history and national faith were generally mixed. None was more skilled at blending the two than
                    George Bancroft, probably the most outstanding American historian of this first one hundred years.
                    What was Bancroft's purpose in writing his multivolume history? In his introduction he says
                    that he intends "to follow the steps by which a favouring 
                        Providence
                    , calling our institutions into being, has conducted the country to its present
                    happiness and glory."91 It was the scientific revolution of the late
                    nineteenth century which made Bancroft's brand of history—and the 
                        Providence
                     legend—archaic.
            Early American nationalists frequently boasted that only they could look backward in time without
                    embarrassment, that American history was unique: America was free from Europe's kings and
                    priests and popes and feudal lords.92 Actually this was a freedom from the very
                    institutions which often served as a focus of national pride in Europe and, more important still,
                    gave Old World nations a sense of historical security. The lack of such a usable past proved to be
                    emotionally and psychologically disturbing for American patriots. In attempting to make the
                    ideologies of the young nation intelligible, 
                        Chester
                     M. Destler has said, it is important to take into account "the psychological
                    necessities of a youthful nation, whose republican system and immature culture required
                    justification and the support of an optimistic faith in the face of the continued ascendency of
                    European cultural standards and its superior political, monarchical power."93 America's "psychological 
                  
                     90 Carl L. Becker, The 
                                    Heavenly City
                                 of the Eighteenth-Century Philosophers (
                                New Haven
                            , 1932), 31 et passim.
                  
                  
                     91 George Bancroft, History of the 
                                    United States
                                 from the Discovery of the American Continent (10 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1834-1874), I, 4.
                  
                     92 For illustrations, see Samuel Brazer, An Oration,
                                Pronounced at 
                                    Springfield
                                , on July 4th, 1809, in Commemoration of American Independence (
                                Springfield
                            , Mass., 1809), 5; 
                                Lexington
                            
                            
                        
                                    Kentucky
                                 Gazette, July 9, 1811; Samuel Adams Wells, An Oration,
                                Pronounced July 5, 1819, at the Request of the Republicans of the Town of 
                                    Boston
                                , in commemoration of the Anniversary of American Independence (
                                Boston
                            , 1819), 3-4.
                  
                     93
                            
                                Chester
                             M. Destler, review of Arthur Alponse Ekirch, The Idea of Progress
                                in America, 1815-1860 (
                                New York
                            , 1944), Journal of Southern History, XI (May, 1945),
                        269-71.
               
                     necessities" doubtless account, in large measure, for
                    the pervasiveness of the 
                        Providence
                     legend. Constantly declaring that they were unique in the world, that not even a 
                        Greece
                     or 
                        Rome
                     offered a worthy precedent for their republic, but as yet unable to point to the
                    emergence of America as a world power or to the material accomplishments of the late nineteenth and
                    early twentieth centuries as proof of their worth as a people, Americans resorted to such devices as
                    the 
                        Providence
                     legend and from it derived much of what they knew of national self-justification. When,
                    in the latter part of the nineteenth century, scientific discoveries began to make providential
                    intervention more and more unacceptable as a theory of historical causation, the material abundance
                    which the Industrial Revolution brought in its wake together with America's development
                    into a great world power provided new justifications of the American experiment. But during the
                    republic's first century, it had been the conviction of Americans that they were
                    heaven's favorites which had done most to sustain a nation of patriots.
         
         
         
            Reprints
            Because of space requirements we must dispose of bulk holdings of back publications. Therefore, we
                    are offering for sale reprints from the June, 1965, Indiana Magazine of History of
                    "Journal of the Convention of the Indiana Territory, 1816." The reprints are
                    paperbound. The charge is $.50 per copy with a discount of 10 per cent for orders of ten
                    or more copies; postage is included. Orders will be accepted through December 31, 1969.
         
         
            Papers of J. Frank Hanly Desired
            Allen Sharp desires information on Governor J. Frank Hanly for a proposed biography. Mr. Sharp is
                    particularly interested in material relating to Governor Hanly's temperance activities
                    after he was governor from 1909 to his death in 1920. Address all correspondence to Allen Sharp, Box
                    2, 
                        Williamsport
                    , Indiana 47993.
         
         
         
            Versatility and Variety: Hoosier Literary, Political, and Diplomatic Prominence,
                        18711901∗
            
            Holman 
                        Hamilton
                    
               ∗∗
            
            Sixty-eight years ago, at the very end of the nineteenth century, a man who in the then near future
                    would become one of America's most popular novelists published a little book entitled The Hoosiers.
               1 Meredith Nicholson was fortunate in possessing
                    an engaging literary quality so early in his career. His style was felicitously unstrained. He made
                    the difficult look easy. Placing particular emphasis on Indiana letters and men and women of
                    letters, Nicholson gave the public what modem scholars should certainly acknowledge as a truly
                    seminal study. Since 1900, other Hoosiers have developed his theme. Of many, may I draw attention to
                    seven significant names—Jacob Piatt Dunn, Julia H. Levering, Logan Esarey, Richard E.
                    Banta, Howard H. Peckham, Arthur W. Shumaker, and William E. Wilson? Those people and coappreciators
                    of the Hoosier past have made substantial contributions to our understanding of a part or the whole
                    of the period known as "Indiana's Golden Age." With them we have ranged
                    with pride and delight from Edward Eggleston's The Hoosier School-Master
                    (1871) to Booth Tarkington's Alice Adams (1921). With
                    them—even more concretely than with Nicholson— we have sought the answer to
                    the repeated "Why?"—"Why the quantity, quality, and popularity
                    of Hoosier authors in all those years?"
            If a case needed to be made for the fact of Hoosier writers' productivity, Banta, Peckham,
                    Shumaker, and others have long since made it. Back in the era of the Civil War, William T.
                    Coggeshall edited an anthology of western poetry.2 The largest number of writers
                    halled from 
                        Ohio
                    , which then contained two and a third million people. Indiana, with a population nearly
                    a million smaller, was in second place while the eight other "western" states
                    contributed only one to fourteen persons apiece.3 In 1934, Edward Weeks listed
                    American books with the greatest sales in a nearly sixty year span; five of the top twenty were
                    products of Hoosier minds and pens.4 Then, in 1947, John H. Moriarty in an
                    analysis of a best seller survey showed Indiana 
                  
                     ∗ This address was delivered at the annual banquet of the
                            Society of Indiana Pioneers on November 16, 1968, in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana. Minor authorial and editorial changes have been made in this printed
                            version. Since it was delivered orally, the use of first person has been retained and
                            citations have been kept to a minimum.
                  
                     ∗∗ Holman 
                                Hamilton
                             is Hallam Professor of History at the University of 
                                Kentucky
                            , 
                        Lexington, Kentucky
                     .
                  
                     1 Meredith Nicholson, The Hoosiers (
                                New York
                            , 1900).
                  
                     2 William T. Coggeshall, The Poets and Poetry of the
                            West (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , 1860).
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., v.
                  
                     4 Edward Weeks, "A Modem Estimate of American Best
                            Sellers—1875-1933," Atlantic Monthly, CLIII (May,
                            1934), 18.
               
                     a very close second to 
                        New York
                     as a producer of successful writers at a time when 
                        New York
                    's population was nearly four times Indiana's.5
                    Incidentally, 
                        Pennsylvania
                     proved a poor third, 
                        Virginia
                     fourth, and 
                        Kentucky
                     fifth. 
                        Ohio
                     was relegated to seventh place, with 
                        Illinois
                     out of the running. Thus it may be argued persuasively that in proportion to the number
                    of her people Indiana has produced the printed word—including the printed word
                    incor-porated into best sellers—in larger quantity than any other state.
            In his efforts to account for the beginnings of this highly unusual develop-ment, Meredith Nicholson
                    discussed the so-called Hoosier "dialect," the ruralism of the state, the
                    illiteracy rate, and the virtues of outstanding teachers. In toto, he dealt with pluses and minuses
                    in a compelling way. Nicholson likewise not only treated∗
                    biographically and interpretively such prominent Hoosiers as Lew Wallace, Edward Eggleston, and
                    James Whitcomb Riley but paid eloquent and intelligent tribute to each of them. We may remind
                    ourselves, too, that with Nicholson most of the observations concerning the "Why?"
                    were rather low-keyed and mainly suggestive. Frequently, he was content merely to mention
                    unintegrated and even embryonic ideas which are just about all one logically expects of a pathmarker
                    venturing his way on frontiere of interpretation.
            It is apropos to cite some samples of Nicholson's suggestions. He noted 
                        Kentucky
                    's early influence on 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, that the father of Lew Wallace was an orator and governor of the state, and
                    that the even balance between the major political parties gave zest to contests for public office.
                    Nicholson recalled that Abraham Lincoln's fourteen years in Indiana were of "the
                    utmost importance"6 in his development; that the rural Hoosier was
                    likely to speak much as his ancestors in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     or 
                        North Carolina
                     or 
                        Kentucky
                     did before him, and that ministers often reached young people ahead of the
                    schoolmasters and communicated "an interest in the world of men and books."7 Nicholson also had an appreciation of early Hoosier historians, John B. Dillon
                    and John C. Ridpath and their contemporaries, though he did little or nothing to integrate their
                    influence or that of other mentioned developments and facts on Hoosier literary trends.
            Since Nicholson wrote, other summarizers and analysts have devoted attention to such matters as the
                    articulate nature of Indiana people, the development of a literary climate, and the mingling of an
                    eastern immigration stream with one from the South. The role of denominational colleges, of
                    churches, and of ministers has been given added recognition. And here and 
                  
                     5 Richard E. Banta, Indiana Authors and Their Books,
                                1816-1916 (
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Ind., 1949), xi.
                  
                     6 Nicholson, The Hoosiers, 39.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 68.
               
                     there post-Nicholscm appraisers have done some building on
                    foundations which Nicholson erected in part or barely sketched regarding the effect on Indiana
                    literary interest of libraries, public speaking, journalism, humor, the law, and the presence or
                    absence of public primary and secondary education in various Hoosier localities.
            All these points had bearing on nineteenth century Indiana. What interests me most is the combination
                    of pre-1871 factors which had most to do with the beginning of Indiana's Golden Age, the
                    period from 1871 to 1901 when the Hoosier literary reputation was established. What I propose to
                    accomplish this evening is to present for your consideration some of the major causes for this
                    beginning as they appear to me; to offer opinions in concrete terms, and to predicate judgments on
                    confidence stemming from a longer view than that avallable to Nicholson and his more immediate
                    successors. At the same time, it is healthy to remind oneself that there will be evaluations
                    subsequent to this one by individuals whose perspective will be superior to mine. And so let us not
                    assume for a moment that this is the last word on the subject for all time. It is rather in the
                    nature of a progress report to some young man or young woman who may be seated here—and
                    may be invited by the Society of Indiana Pioneers to comment in the year 2001 on the
                    Hoosierland's Golden Age and its meaning for posterity.
            At the outset, I wholeheartedly subscribe to the significance of the contact between pioneers with
                    southern origins and other pioneers with northeastern origins. First, I would place in large capital
                    letters the southern influence on Golden Age culture. Edward Eggleston's forebears lived in
                            
                  Virginia, North Carolina , Tennessee
                    , and 
                        Kentucky
                    . His father was a Virginian, his mother a member of a leading 
                        Kentucky
                     family, and Indiana's first important novelist was clearly the intellectual
                    beneficiary of both of them. His brother, George Cary Eggleston, of course was a product of the same
                    culture. Maurice Thompson also was distinctly southem in his orientation. Like the Egglestons, he
                    was born in Indiana and, during most of his adult life, he was a resident of 
                        Crawfordsville
                    . But as a child and adolescent Thompson lived in 
                  Missouri , Kentucky
               ,
                    and 
                        Georgia
                    . And, like the younger Eggleston, Thompson and his poet brother Will Henry Thompson
                    served in the Confederate Army.
            Unless one counts the Cary sisters as Hoosiers (which I do not), Sarah T. Bolton may be considered
                    the principal Indiana poet before the Civil War. Mrs. Bolton was a 
                        Kentucky
                     native. The father of Caroline V. and Hannah H. Krout, Indiana authors, had 
                        Kentucky
                     antecedents. Booth Tarkington's grandfather was born in 
                        Tennessee
                    ; Meredith Nicholson's father, in 
                        Kentucky
                    . The McCutcheon family, of which George 
                        Barr
                     McCutcheon and John T. McCutcheon were members, had halled from 
                        Kentucky
                    . And William Vaughn Moody's father had been a captain of river steamers and
                         was the veteran of many a winding journey down southwestern
                    waters to the Crescent Gity of 
                        New Orleans
                    .
            Observing this decidedly southern background of Indiana writers, one should quickly add that some of
                    the leading Hoosier men of letters may appear to be exceptions
                    with—superficially—little or no direct southern connection. Lew
                    Wallace's father was thoroughly identified with the North. A native of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and a graduate of West Point, Governor David Wallace was essentially a northern or
                    northwestern figure; his chief southern political association, however, was with borderstate Whigs,
                    his beau ideal being Henry 
                        Clay
                    . More important, Lew Wallace's stepmother—who came into the family
                    when Lew was very young and whom he greatly esteemed—-was 
                        Kentucky
                     born Zerelda Sanders, one of the outstanding women in Hoosier history. James Whitcomb
                    Riley on the surface appears to have been even more removed from the South and southerners; his
                    father was a captain in the Union Army, just as Lew Wallace served there as a general officer. But
                    in the total Riley experience, perhaps more than for any other nineteenth century Hoosier author,
                    the southem cultural influence is undeniable: his mother was a native of 
                        North Carolina
                    , his maternai grandparents both were reared in the South, and the writing of verse was
                    a characteristic of his mother's family as a whole and especially of her father.
            Our second point concerns the relationship between literature and public life. It has been noted by
                    previous analysts, but perhaps not with the deserved interpretation, that the years between 1871 and
                    1901 were also remarkable ones in Hoosier politics. During that era, Indiana citizens were nominees
                    of one or the other major political party for either the presidency or the vice presidency of the 
                        United States
                     in five consecutive campaigns from 1876 through 1892. One citizen of Indiana occupied
                    the White House. Another was chosen for the second highest office. Three natives of Indiana served
                    as secretary of state. Six other cabinet portfolios were held during the period by native sons or
                    longtime residents of Indiana. Seven Hoosiers loomed as outstanding figures in the 
                        United States
                     Senate and House of Representatives. Foreign countries where Hoosiers were entrusted
                    with coveted diplomatie missions girdled the globe stretching from 
                        China
                     to Mexico, Great Britain, 
                  Spain , Austria- Hungary
                    , the Turkey of the sultans, and the Russia of the czars.8
            
            
               
                  8 The nominees were Thomas A. Hendricks (1876), William H. English (1880),
                        Thomas A. Hendricks (1884), and Benjamin Harrison (1888 and 1892). The secretaries of state were
                        John W. Foster, Walter Q. Gresham, and John Hay. Walter Q. Gresham and Hugh McCulloch served as
                        secretary of the treasury; William H. H. Miller as attorney general; James N. Tyner and Walter
                        Q. Gresham as postmaster general; Richard W. Thompson as secretary of the navy. Hoosier
                        congressmen outstanding in various ways were Oliver P. Morton, Michael C. Kerr, William S.
                        Holman, Daniel W. Voorhees, David Turpie, Charles W. Fairbanks, and Albert J. Beveridge. Charles
                        Denby represented the 
                            United States
                         in 
                            China
                        ; John W. Foster in Mexico, Russia, and 
                            Spain
                        ; Lew Wallace in Turkey; Isaac P. Gray in Mexico; John Hay in Great Britain; and
                        Addison C. Harris in 
                            Austria
                        -
                            Hungary
                        . Among other Hoosier diplomats of the period was Albert G. Porter, assigned to 
                            Italy
                        .
            
            
            A favorite explanation for the prominence of Hoosiers in national affaire is that they halled from a
                    pivotai state.9 To a degree, I subscribe to this rationale, for—as
                    Prof essor William E. Wilson of Indiana University has reminded us—in every election
                    except one from 1872 through 1900 Indiana's electoral vote went to the ultimate winner.10 And in Indiana, throughout this period, virtually all presidential and
                    gubernatorial contests were extremely close. But I doubt that anything like the total story should
                    be attributed to the feature of the pivot. The pivotai aspect of Indiana politics was not wholly or
                    in most cases mainly responsible for the prominence of Oliver P. Morton or Daniel W. Voorhees in the 
                        United States
                     Senate, for the strikingly different kinds of success of Benjamin Harrison and Albert
                    J. Beveridge, for the skill Charles Denby demonstrated in the Far East, for the versatility of Lew
                    Wallace, or for the diplomatie tradition transmitted from Indiana's John W. Foster to his
                    grandson John Foster Dulles.
            Fundamentally—and this is point number three—I believe that so many Indiana
                    politicians on the national and international stage not only came from substantially the same
                    backgrounds but developed for substantially the same reasons that Hoosier authors came to the fore.
                    William H. English, congressman and vice presidential nominee, was the son of 
                        Kentucky
                     parents. William S. Holman, who served in the House longer than any other American of
                    his time or before11, was likewise the child of parents from 
                        Kentucky
                    . Henry Smith Lane, the elder statesman and ex-senator, was a native of 
                        Kentucky
                    . Well over half the political and diplomatie leaders were reared in parts of Indiana
                    largely populated by southerners in the early days or where southern and northeastern immigration
                    streams merged. Voorhees was brought up in 
                        Franklin County
                    ; Thomas A. Hendricks in Jefferson and 
                        Shelby
                     counties; James D. "Blue Jeans" Williams in 
                        Knox County
                    ; Alvin P. Hovey in 
                        Posey County
                    ; Joseph E. McDonald in 
                        Montgomery County
                    ; Oliver P. Morton in 
                        Wayne County
                    ; John Hay (until his departure for 
                        Illinois
                    ) in 
                        Washington County
                    ; Walter Q. Gresham in 
                        Harrison County
                    ; and John W. Foster in 
                        Pike County
                    .
            Those scenes of origin and/or rearing may be rewardingly compared with localities and areas
                    associated with the leading writers. The Eggleston brothers' home county was 
                        Switzerland
                    . Lew Wallace was born at 
                        Brookville
                     in 
                        Franklin County
                    , and just a few miles away at 
                        Fairfield
                     was the birthplace of Maurice Thompson. Joaquin Miller, the "Poet of the
                    Sierras" who is not always linked with Indiana but many of whose formative years were spent
                    in the state, was a native of 
                        Union County
                    . James Whitcomb Riley, the "Hoosier Poet" beloved by millions, was
                    born at 
                  Greenfield, Hancock
                            County
                    , on the 
                  
                     9 "Pivotai (state): A state whose electoral vote may be
                            considered a decisive factor in the election." Hans Sperber and Travis Trittschuh,
                                American Political Ternis: An Historical Dictionary (
                                Detroit
                            , 1962), 318.
                  
                     10 William E. Wilson, Indiana: A History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1966), 104. The "exception," that of 1876, actually
                            reflected the national popular vote. In the judgment of Democrats, Samuel J. Tilden defeated
                            Rutherfoiti B. Hayes in the electoral college but was "counted out."
                  
                     11 I. George Blake, The Holmans of Veraestau
                                    (
                        Oxford, Ohio
                            , 1943), 223.
               
                     National Road. Charles Major, author of When
                        Knighthood Was in Flower (1898), was a native of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and moved to 
                        Shelbyville
                     at the age of thirteen. Booth Tarkington, similarly, was an 
                        Indianapolis
                     boy; he was born, received much of his education, and resided long in this city. 
                        Madison
                     at first was home to David Graham Phillips, New 
                        Albany
                     to William Vaughn Moody, 
                        Terre Haute
                     after a fashion to Theodore Dreiser. When Frank McKinney "Kin"
                    Hubbard came to Indiana, 
                        Indianapolis
                     was the center of his activity just as it was in the case of Benjamin Harrison. Thus
                    for a long time virtually all the notable Indiana authors, like so many of the political and
                    diplomatie leaders, were reared or spent their years of early manhood within the southern and
                    central portions of the state. George Ade, the McGutcheons, and Gene Stratton Porter were born and
                    grew up in a tier of counties a bit to the north. But let it be added that, like John W. Kern and
                    Thomas R. Marshall in politics, this later literary trio achieved fame at the end of—or
                    actually after—the era under discussion here.
            My fourth point tonight is related to the third: numerous Indiana authors participated actively in
                    politics or grew up in political families—or both. Lew Wallace's father was not
                    only a governor but lieutenant governor, state legislator, congressman, and judge. General Wallace
                    himself ran for Congress, was a territorial governor, and wrote a Benjamin Harrison campaign
                    biography. Maurice Thompson, Charles Major, and Booth Tarkington all won election to the Indiana
                    General Assembly. Tarkington's father acted as secretary to Indiana Governor Joseph A.
                    Wright; Tarkington's uncle, for whom he was named, was the Hoosier born Newton Booth,
                    governor of 
                        California
                    . The McCutcheons' father was a county treasurer. Major was 
                        Shelbyville
                    's city clerk. As Professor Shumaker of DePauw has told us,12 Sarah T. Bolton personally sewed carpets for the old Statehouse in preparation for a
                    meeting of governors of western states, and both she and her husband long remained in a political
                    atmosphere.
            Conversely, Indiana politicians and diplomats have written books—some of them, many books.
                    From Oliver H. Smith to Richard W. Thompson, from William H. English to Benjamin Harrison, from
                    David Turpie to Albert J. Beveridge, from Charles Denby and John W. Foster to Thomas R. Marshall and
                    Claude G. Bowers, the relationship between the world of action and the world of thought is
                    exemplified in their pages. Nor should it be inferred for a moment that the writings of those men
                    were limited to autobiographies or memoirs. In several cases (Beveridge and Bowers at once corne to
                    mind), it is hard to say whether they will be remembered longer as activists or as authors.
            We at this dinner are history minded as well as Hoosier minded. The cumulative interest in history,
                    on the part of both politicians and novelists, is little short of astounding. Edward Eggleston
                    became an historian and president of the American Historical Association. George Cary Eggleston,
                        
                  
                     12 Arthur W. Shumaker, A History of Indiana
                            Literature (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1962), 123.
               
                     too, wrote historical books. The influence of history on Lew
                    Wallace is so apparent that it needs no documentation. While practicing law in 
                        Shelbyville
                    , Charles Major immersed himself in the Tudor period of English history long before he
                    became a novelist. John Hay was an important historian prior to his distinction as secretary of
                    state. When Thompson composed Alice of 
                            Old Vincennes
                        
                (1900), he depended greatly on English's study of George Rogers Clark
                    and the Old Northwest—the lawyer-novelist relying on the banker-historian. Eggleston was
                    influenced by Hippolyte Taine, Major by FrançLois Guizot, and both Eggleston and Wallace
                    benefited from the volumes of William H. Prescott. Was there not some connection between this array
                    of influences and the roles of Hoosier historians from Dillon and Ridpath to Charles and Mary Beard
                    and beyond? Was there not something more than coincidence between what has just been set forth here
                    and the establishment of the Indiana Historical Society—the first such society west of
                    the mountains—as far back as 1830?
            Fifth, and perhaps this belongs higher up the line, it strikes me that humor goes far in reflecting
                    both the southem influence on Indiana politics and letters and the courses of immigration streams in
                    this state. Indeed, humor may well have been cause as well as reflection; Hoosier humor has always
                    had both political and literary overtones. Self-depreciation, humility, the throwaway line, the
                    homespun, the mildly merry, the chuckle more often than the boisterous guffaw—these
                    characteristics over and over have been present in both southern and Indiana humor.
            It was Abraham Lincoln, the 
                        Kentucky
                     native and Hoosier youth, who in mature life liked to tell about the fellow who
                    "said he was riding … on a jass-ack, through a patton-cotch, on a pair of baddle-sags, stuffed full of binger-gred, when the animal steered at a scump, and
                    the lirrup-steather broke, and throwed him in the forner of the
                        kence. He said he would not have minded it much, but … it give him
                    a right smart sick of fitness—he had the molera-corbus pretty bad … [until] about bray-dake he corne to
                        himself."13
            
            It was George Cary Eggleston who told about the man from the East who asked about routes to various
                    points in and beyond Indiana:
            
                    "If I want to go to 
                            Indianapolis
                        , what road do I take?" he asked.
                    "Why, you go to Napoleon, and take the road northwest."
                    "If I want to go to 
                            Madison
                        ?"
                    "Go to Napoleon, and take the road southwest."
                    "Suppose I want to go to 
                            St. Louis
                        ?"
                    "Why, you go to Napoleon, and take the … road west." … At
                        last the man asked in despair:
                    "Well now, stranger, suppose I wanted to go to Hell?"
                    The … [Hoosier] answered without a moment's hesitation, "Oh, in that
                        case, just go to Napoleon, and stay there."14
               
                
            
               
                  13 Roy P. Basler (ed.), The Collected Works of Abraham
                            Lincoln (8 vols., 
                            New Brunswick
                        , N.J., 1953), VIII, 420.
               
                  14 George C. Eggleston, Recollections of a Varied Life (
                            New York
                        , 1910), 5.
            
            
            To give you part of the political mood of the late nineteenth century, let me quote from a speech
                    which Claude Bowers heard as a boy at Eagletown in 
                        Hamilton County
                     just north of 
                        Indianapolis
                    : "In 
                        Michigan
                    , where it's cold, they're almost all Republicans; in Indiana, where
                    it's a little warmer, there are a few more Democrats; in 
                        Mississippi
                    , where it's very warm, they're almost all Democrats; and in hell,
                    which is hot, they're all Democrats."15
            
            There was Vice President Alben Barkley of 
                        Kentucky
                     who declared that "He who doth not toot his own horn alloweth it to remain
                        untooteth."16 The veep had much the same spirit as Tom Marshall, a
                    student at 
                        Wabash
                     College when Wallace and Thompson and the Krout sisters were citizens of 
                        Crawfordsville
                    . Marshall is mainly remembered today for "What this country really needs most
                    is a good five-cent cigar."17 I'm also fond of the Hoosier
                    vice president's statement: "The trouble with America today is there are too many
                    preachers legislating and too few legislators praying."18 And there was
                    the time, during Prohibition, when Marshall declared: "It's got so it is as easy
                    to amend the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                     as it used to be to draw a cork."19
            
            But you may prefer the one recounted to me three years ago in a memorable interview by Arthur Krock,
                    that distinguished Kentuckian long with the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times. It seems that John W. Kern, native of 
                        Howard County
                     and himself a Hoosier with southern antecedents, was on the campaign trall in an early
                    year of this century—traveling with Krock on an interurban between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Frankfort
                    , Indiana. The two men were out on the front platform, smoking cigars and standing a
                    short distance behind the motorman. Suddenly, the car struck something and shook to a hait. The
                    motorman briefly peered from his seat into the moonless night and started the car up again. Over his
                    shoulder, he vouchsafed to Kern and Krock: "Hit a caa-ow." Quoth the bearded Kern,
                    slowly taking the cigar from his lips, "Sir, permit me to congratulate you upon that rare
                    discernment which—in a night of Stygian blackness—enabled you to identify not
                    only the species but the sex of that unfortunate animal!"20
            
            It is a far cry from animal stories to such roman tic novels of Hoosier authors as Graustark (1901) and Dorothy Vernon of Haddon Hall (1902). Several
                    literary critics have underscored the multiplicity of books dealing with the far away and long ago
                    or make believe like When Knighthood Was in Flower, Monsieur Beaucaire (1900), Alice of 
                            Old Vincennes
                        
               , and Graustark. It is my interpretation that they
                    represented a combination of rather specialized historical interest (at least in Charles
                    Major's case) and 
                  
                     15 Claude Bowers, My Life (
                                New York
                            , 1962), 10.
                  
                     16
                            
                                Louisville
                            
                            Courier-Journal, Nov. 19, 1949.
                  
                     17
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, June 2, 1925, p. 4.
                  
                            18
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., January 31, 1925, p. 28.
                  
                     20 Arthur Krock to Holman 
                                Hamilton
                            , interview, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., Nov. 17, 1965.
               
                     acute perception of what the reading public wanted. Far more
                    consequential is the strain of realism from the elder Eggleston through Mary Hartwell Catherwood (in
                    her earlier period) to Booth Tarkington at his best. Here it is that one discerns the closest
                    connection between literature and politics in Indiana, unless it is in that mutuality of background
                    and development identified with the atypical Eugene V. Debs of politics and Theodore Dreiser of
                    letters—both of continental European immigrant strains and both closely associated with 
                        Terre Haute
                    .
            Returning to the main theme, and again concentrating there, much might be said (if time allowed)
                    about journalism and books on one hand or journalism and politics and diplomacy on the other.
                    Numerous Indiana newspapermen became authors or political leaders or, as in the careers of John C.
                    New and Samuel E. Morss, top consular officiais in 
                        London
                     and 
                        Paris
                    . Significance could be attributed to the record that the practice of law or at least an
                    approach to the practice of law was a common denominator of much Hoosier authorship. College
                    campuses provided meaningful settings—for example the meeting of Edward Eggleston near
                    the end of his life with young John Livingston Lowes at 
                        Hanover
                     College overlooking the beautiful 
                        Ohio
                    , and the richly rewarding undergraduate experience of Dear-born County's Elmer
                    Davis who went on from 
                        Franklin
                     College to a Rhodes Scholarship at 
                        Oxford
                     and fine achievement in several fields. It would be hard to exaggerate the impact of
                    Christianity on Edward Eggleston, Lew Wallace, and others. Indiana libraries, early and late,
                    deserve more study than they have been accorded. Hoosiers' interest and success in the art
                    of public speaking have been constants all the way from Edward A. Hannegan to Roger D. Branigin. And
                    then there is the theme of the Civil War.
            Inevitably, the scholar returns to the immigration streams. It is tantalizing to recreate what
                    assuredly must have occurred in community after community. The dialogues that developed, the debates
                    that were held, the intellectual and emotional sparks that flew—these were part and
                    parcel of the Hoosier scene especially as the sectional crisis grew acute, then while the Civil War
                    was being fought, and at length in the heat and turmoil of the Reconstruction aftermath. One
                    Eggleston brother sided strongly with the North, the other with the South. For Wallace, Alvin P.
                    Hovey, John W. Foster, the father of Riley, the father of Tarkington, and the father of Nicholson,
                    patriotism meant wearing the blue uniform of the Union and being prepared to lay one's life
                    on the altar of the nation. Oliver P. Morton was a human symbol of Union strength and allegiance in
                    Indiana. "Blue Jeans" Williams, Thomas A. Hendricks, their followers and friends
                    considered themselves patriots, too, though opposed to the Morton administration. Out in 
                        Oregon
                    , Joaquin Miller was pro-Confederacy. Down in the South, Maurice Thompson donned the
                    Confederate gray. It is traditional to think of 
                        Kentucky
                     as a commonwealth where brother fought against brother and father against  son. Divisions were less frequent or dramatic in Indiana, but there
                    were divisions nonetheless.
            One writer has opined that in Indiana "assimilation was rapid" respecting the
                    immigration streams.21 I doubt that this was universally, or even generally, so.
                    Strong differences of opinion obtained, and they continued with much conviction and no little
                    bitterness long after 
                        Appomattox
                    . It was in this charged atmosphere that both Hoosier authors-to-be with southern
                    orientations and Hoosier authors-to-be with no southern orientations grew to manhood.
            And now I wish to project a sixth main point, namely that both Hoosiers with southern orientation and
                    literary potential and Hoosiers with north-eastern orientation and literary potential achieved far
                    more in the realm of letters in the Indiana environment than did southerners who remained in the
                    South. Here in Indiana was a sphere where articulation was naturally encouraged, where imagination
                    soared, where literary and political growth was nurtured by the intensity of
                    friendly dialogue and debate and sometimes by unfriendly differences of opinion. Here was a hothouse
                    of in-tellectual and emotional interchange, where conflicting convictions found expression not only
                    in oratory (so long a Hoosier characteristic) but in the novel, the short story, the play, poetry,
                    biography, and history.
            The statement has been made that "Indiana literature has … not been a great
                    literature" and that "there has been no Shakespeare, 
                        Milton
                    , or Melville in the halls of Hoosier literary fame."22 If
                    Indiana authors have indeed not been "great," is not the early Indiana literary
                    environment all the more deserving of careful and devoted attention because somehow—it is
                    respectfully submitted, perhaps for the very reasons set forth tonight—it provided a
                    climate where men and women of less spectacular abilities rose to a multiplicity of popular and by
                    no means unsubstantial accomplishments? There has been a tremendous degree of versatility and
                    variety on the Hoosier stage. Authors have been politicians; politicians have been authors. The
                    diplomat, the orator, the journalist, the lawyer, and even the incidentally law oriented or politics
                    oriented Indiana citizen has come forward to try his wings—whether in poetry or in prose,
                    on stump or platform or in prompter's box. Two blocks from here in the now historie
                    Claypool Hotel,23 this combination of interests, versatility, and variety have
                    long been matters of magie and meaning and not a little awe for succeeding generations.
            Still, at the last, you and I pause and inquire: "No Melville? No 
                        Milton
                    ? No Shakespeare?" Ours the loss. Yet let us remember that of the three only
                    Shakespeare usually—and 
                        Milton
                     sometimes—has been ranked with 
                  
                     21 Shumaker, A History of Indiana Literature, 9.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., 30.
                  
                     23 Long an 
                                Indianapolis
                             landmark on the northwest corner of Minois and 
                                Washington
                             streets, the hotel is being demolished.
               
                     Abraham Lincoln among the greatest names in all the sweep and
                    drift of time. If he was no Shakespeare, Lincoln penned some of the most beautiful prose ever
                    produced by an American. Lincoln lived in the southern part of Indiana just a few years before most
                    of the other writers who have been discussed here; indeed, he was in Indiana when some of them were
                    there. The lad Lincoln came to the Indiana of our ancestors when he was seven years old. For
                    fourteen years—nearly as long as Theodore Dreiser or Moody or David Graham Phillips
                    counted himself a resident—this future President grew to manhood within
                    Indiana's borders. Both the mysteries and the realities connected with Lincoln are
                    indelibly integrated with the pioneer times from 1816 to 1830, which were almost to the very month
                    the first fourteen years in the life of the state. 
            When Lincoln left Indiana, he had already laid the foundations for three fundamentals of his fame. He
                    could write well. He could speak well. And, almost immediately, his qualities of leadership were
                    evident with his election as captain of his Black Hawk War company. Thus it is beyond debate that
                    the Indiana years of Abraham Lincoln can never convincingly be termed incidental years. Louis A. 
                        Warren
                    , R. Gerald McMurtry, and others have performed magnificently in providing us with
                    detalls of Lincoln's formative period. And those gentlemen will no doubt be among the first
                    to acknowledge that the best proof of Lincoln's remarkable Indiana growth is found in what
                    he was when he left Indiana.
            It was a growth impressive not only in terms symbolized by the artistic marker across the 
                        Wabash
                     from 
                        Vincennes
                     but also in the work of the mature Lincoln, who was still the Lincoln of 
                        Spencer County
                     except that in terms of meeting and mastering challenge and crisis the tall and strong
                    Hoosier youth had grown taller and stronger. Lincoln's Hoosier development would appear to
                    us now as utterly beyond comprehension as the sixteenth century growth of
                    Shakespeare—except that we have before us such literary figures as Eggleston, Wallace,
                    Thompson, and Riley, and such politicians as Morton, Hendricks, and Voorhees, and we know a great
                    deal about them.
            So we find that we do have an undeniable first-rater in Indiana annals. If Lincoln's best
                    writings are literature (and I so consider them), then at least some of the literature that came out
                    of Indiana was great. Also, in more ways than one, Lincoln personally symbolizes substantially all
                    the emphases of this evening. Coming to Indiana with his father, mother, and older sister on one of
                    the first northbound immigration waves after the War of 1812, Lincoln went to school in
                    circumstances not unlike those described so graphically by Eggleston. He combined adeptness in
                    politics with love of good writing, studied law, had a fine sense of humor, and mastered the arts of
                    clear, crisp style and forensic skill. Like so many others with southern  orientations, Lincoln flourished in the Old
                    Northwest—ultimately scaling the summits of eloquence with deathless poetic prose which
                    helped give him preeminent rank in the company of the world's immortals.
         
         
         
            When Riley Won the Palm
            Harriet R. Holman∗
            
            In his own lifetime James Whitcomb Riley was held in affection and high respect in Indiana and
                    through much of the rest of the nation as well.1 Anyone privileged to hear him
                    lecture or read his poems did not forget, and the number of the editions of his works bears witness
                    to his general popularity. In 1887, however, Riley was relatively unknown in the eastern 
                        United States
                    ; his performance on a program headed by James Russell 
                        Lowell
                     marked the end of that obscurity. 
                        Lowell
                     at the time was considered one of the most distinguished American men of
                    letters—editor, author, poet, professor, and diplomat—and it is interesting to
                    note that on this occasion, by common consent, Riley outshone 
                        Lowell
                     and a company of professional writers.2
            
            In order to raise money for what Robert Underwood Johnson delicately called "spiritual
                        lobbying"3 for international copyright laws, the American
                    Authors' Copyright League sponsored a series of benefit readings. Perhaps the most
                    memorable of many such programs were two given in 
                        New York
                     at Chickering Hall on November 28 and 29, 1887.
            Riley, who had not previously read in the East, was invited to appear on the program almost by
                    happenstance. While Johnson, who seems to have been responsible for arrangements, was working on
                    lists, Henry Cuyler Bunner told him, "Don't fail to get Riley."4 They assigned him the last place on the program for November 28, an
                    undesirable spot because some commuters could be expected to slip out early to catch their trains.
                    With 
                        Lowell
                     presiding, Mark Twain, Edward Eggleston, Richard Henry Stoddard, Bunner, and George W.
                    Cable read from their own work before Riley gave the closing readings of "When the Frost Is
                    on the Punkin" and "The Educator." Train schedules forgotten, the
                    audience gave Riley a standing ovation; for an encore, he recited "Goodbye, Jim."
                    Men of established reputation—
                        Lowell
                    , Parke Godwin, George William Curtis among them—waited their turns to shake
                    his hand. The audience, in no hurry to leave now, applauded when 
                        Lowell
                     announced that Riley would appear on the next day's program.
            On the second occasion 
                        Lowell
                    , president of the league, again presided. He read from his own poems and was followed
                    by Richard Malcolm 
                  
                     ∗ Harriet R. Holman is associate professor of English at
                            Clemson University, Clemson, 
                                South Carolina
                            . The author wishes to acknowledge the helpful cooperation of Dr. Mattie
                            Russell, head of the manuscript division of the Perkins Library, Duke University, and of Dr.
                            Elfrieda Lang, Curator of Manuscripts, the Lilly Library, Indiana University.
                  
                     1 Arthur W. Shumaker, A History of Indiana
                            Literature (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1962), 203; see 202-19 for general information about Riley.
                  
                     2 Information which follows about the various readings is derived,
                            unless otherwise noted, from Robert Underwood Johnson, Remembered
                            Yesterdays (
                                Boston
                            , 1923), 261-64.
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., 265, 276n.
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., 263. See also William Lyon Phelps (ed.), Letters of
                                James Whitcomb Riley (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1930), 75-78.
               
                    
                    
                  
                     RILEY ACCEPTS THE INVITATION FOR HIS FIRST READING IN NEW YORK ON NOVEMBER
                            28, 1887.
                  Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University
               
                     Johnston, Charles Dudley Warner, Thomas Nelson Page, William
                    Dean Howells, Frank R. Stockton, George William Curtis, and Riley. Once again the audience came to
                    its feet applauding. The two programs netted more than four thousand dollars, enough to subsidize
                    "spiritual lobbying" for a long time.
            In March the next year Page and Riley read together again when, in Johnson's words,
                    "one or two Pullman cars containing visiting authors from the North"5 went to 
                        Washington
                     for a program intended to help sway Congress. It was attended by President and Mrs.
                    Grover 
                        Cleveland
                    , who afterwards gave the visiting writers a brilliant reception.
            At the first reading in November, 1887, Riley had made a memorable impression on Page6 who was already well known for his short stories and essays published in magazines; he was
                    then writing a children's book, Two Little Confederates, which has proved
                    a minor classic. Following the 
                        Washington
                     program, over a period of months Riley exchanged books and a handful of cordial letters
                    with Page.7 In the fall of 1888 Page returned from a business trip—he
                    still earned his butter and his bread as an active member of the law firm of Page and Carter in
                            
                  Richmond, 
                            Virginia
                —and found an invitation for a reception for Riley
                    that had already taken place. He promptly wrote to the "Gentlemen" who had issued
                    the invitation not only an explanation of his absence but an enthusiastic evaluation of Riley as
                    well.
            
                    Riley is one of the few geniuses it has ever been my fortune to know. On the two occasions when I
                        have met him in public, he has easily won the palm against such men as 
                            Lowell
                        , Clements [Clemens], Eggleston, and many others, who were the picked champions in
                        the Literary field. But far better than this, I rank the qualities which through his native
                        modesty have kept him sweet and unaffected whilst they dazzled and entranced all others. He has
                        the very soul of a poet, and we are all proud of him. His books lie before me now, and are my
                        constant friends, as in them I find the very flavor of the apple-blossoms, and find my youth
                        embalmed.
                    I beg to testify that we love him down in this old State [
                            Virginia
                        ], and I bespeak for him a glorious future.8
               
                
            Page valued charm, and as a lawyer and a southerner he was interested also in oratory and all allied
                    skills such as he had seen Riley use to sweep an audience to its feet. But perhaps after all the
                    basis of Page's preference was what he stated more temperately in a letter to Riley early
                    in 1890:
            
               
                  5
                        Ibid., 263.
               
                  6 Page's letters are in the Riley Papers in the Lilly Library,
                        Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        ; see especially that of June 4, 1888. See also letters among Page's
                        letterpress books in the Page Collection of the Clifford Waller Barrett Library of the
                        University of 
                      Virginia, Charlottesville
                  , especially his letters to R. C.
                        Coldwell of the Southern Lyceum Bureau of 
                     Louisville, Kentucky
                  .
               
                  7
                        Ibid. See also Riley's letters to Page in the Page Manuscript
                        Collection, Perkins Library, Duke University, Durham, 
                            North Carolina
                        . There is also at least one Riley letter in the Page family papers recently
                        acquired and still being processed by the Barrett Library of the University of 
                            Virginia
                         from the Page family.
               
                  8 Page to Elijah Walker Halford and others, October 29, 1888, Riley
                        Papers.
            
            
            
                    I hold [you] in highest esteem as one of the few true poets of America…. I assure you
                        that I love your books, they have the two essential qualities for me[—] music and
                        heart, real music & heart.9
               
                
            These were qualities which endeared him to readers and listeners, for in tugging at the heartstrings,
                    Riley used varied metrical skills. This basis for Page's judgment and for popular approval
                    heaped upon Riley evidently held valid also for the men composing the American Academy of Arts and
                    Letters, which elected Riley to membership in 1911,10 and for the National
                    Institute of Arts and Letters, which in 1912 conferred upon him its first gold medal for poetry.11
            
            
               
                  9 Page to Riley, January 11, 1890, ibid.
               
               
                  10
                        In Memoriam: A Book of Record concerning former members of the American Academy of
                            Arts and Letters (
                            New York
                        , 1922), 215.
               
                  11 Phelps, Letters of James Whitcomb Riley, 7,
                    316-18.
            
         
         
         
            Public Canal Finance and State Banking In 
                        Ohio
                    , 18251837
            Harry N. Scheiber∗
            
            Historians have recently given much attention to the active, formative role of state governments in
                    the American economy before the Civil War.1 The states exercised nearly
                    exclusive control over many aspects of economic life, and in such areas as labor, banking, and
                    corporation policy the federal government interfered relatively little. The consequence was
                    considerable decentralization of power in policymaking, together with variations in policy from
                    state to state.2 Perhaps in no policy area were variations so dramatic as in
                    state legislation on banking. In some states banking was prohibited outright, while in others the
                    state government itself established and operated banks, sometimes on a monopoly basis. Elsewhere,
                    safety funds were established and banks required to meet minimum standards of specie reserve and the
                    like; and in a few states, stringent regulatory policies were pursued, with public commissioners
                    given considerable discretion in administering policy.3
            
            This study considers another type of interaction between state government and privately owned banks:
                    the deposit of state funds and their management by state officials and bank officers. Nathan
                    Miller's excellent analysis of the Erie Canal Fund in 
                        New York
                     has demonstrated that when the Erie Canal, a unique financial success among American
                    canals, produced large surplus revenues, the state government treated this surplus as a fund for
                    development, depositing the money in selected banks and thereby providing reserves on which the
                    banks expanded their note issues and commercial credit.4 In this article, the
                    comparable experience of 
                        Ohio
                    —the first western state to undertake public canal construction—in
                    the management of canal funds is the focus of attention. Unlike 
                  New York,  Ohio
                did
                    not enjoy a surplus of revenues over expenses that permitted such imaginative policies as were
                    pursued by the Erie Canal Fund commissioners. Nonetheless, from 1825 to 1832 
                        Ohio
                     did borrow $4.5 million of eastern capital by issuing state bonds to finance
                    its first canals. Because the ten state chartered banks operating in 
                        Ohio
                     in 1825 had paid-in capital totalling only about $1 million, the 
                  
                     ∗ Harry N. Scheiber is professor of history at Dartmouth
                            College, 
                        Hanover, New Hampshire
                            .
                  
                     1 See Carter Goodrich, Government Promotion of American
                                Canals and Railroads, 1800-1890 (
                                New York
                            , 1960); James Willard Hurst, Law and the Conditions of Freedom in
                                the Nineteenth Century 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Madison
                            , 1956), 1-76.
                  
                     2 Harry N. Scheiber, The Condition of American
                                Federalism: An Historian's View (89 Cong., 2 Sess., U.S. Senate, Committee
                            on Government Operations, committee print, October 15, 1966), 2-7.
                  
                     3 The classic account of banking and bank policy is Bray 
                                Hammond
                            , Banks and Politics in America from the Revolution to the Civil
                                War (
                                Princeton
                            , 1957).
                  
                     4 Nathan Miller, Enterprise of a Free People: Aspects of
                                Economic Development in 
                                    New York
                                 State during the Canal Period, 1792-1838 (
                                Ithaca
                            , 1962), 115ff.
               
                     $4.5 million of investment that flowed into the
                    state was itself an important stimulus to development. Because the public canal officials decided to
                    deposit these funds with banks and to disburse them to canal contractors and laborers through those
                    banks, the bond issues had an especially important impact on the structure of banking operations in 
                        Ohio
                    .5
            
            The canal era began in the West in February, 1825, when the 
                        Ohio
                     legislature voted to build two canals: (1) the 
                        Ohio
                     Canal, a 307-mile line to run from 
                        Cleveland
                    , on Lake Erie, south to the Muskingum River,
                    thence westward to a point near 
                        Columbus
                    , then southward through the Scioto Valley to the Ohio River at
                    Portsmouth; and (2) the Miami Canal, a 67-mile waterway to be constructed between 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Dayton
                     in the southwestern corner of the state. Since Congress had refused to grant any
                    financial aid in support of the 
                        Ohio
                     projects, the state decided to make the attempt alone. All its hopes rested on its
                    ability to attract capital through bond issues in the East or in Europe, as 
                        New York
                     State had done.8 Careful field surveys, which had been conducted
                    during 1822-1824, indicated that the two canals would cost at least $3 million. Under the
                    February, 1825, law the canals were to be built and operated by the state. All funds obtained
                    through bond issues (as well as private gifts, special taxes, and any future federal aid) and any
                    revenue collected from tolls once portions of the lines were completed would be placed in a
                    "Canal Fund."7
            
            Responsibility for managing the canal fund was vested in a board of three commissioners. Named to
                    serve on the board were Ethan Allen 
                        Brown
                    , a 
                        United States
                     Senator from 
                        Ohio
                     and former governor; Ebenezer Buckingham, a banker and general entrepreneur who lived
                    in 
                        Zanesville
                    ; and Simon Perkins of 
                        Warren
                    , who like Buckingham was one of 
                        Ohio
                    's leading bankers.8 The commissioners were authorized to
                    borrow $400,000 in 1825 and additional sums in ensuing years. Despite the weight of this
                    and other responsibilities, the fund commissioners received no salaries; and only after 1827 did the
                    legislature consent to pay their out-of-pocket expenses. They had no office at the capital, and were
                    permitted to engage no staff other than a part time secretary. Thus parsimony and the
                    antibureaucratic tradition overcame any realistic appraisal of the board's needs.9
            
            
               
                  5
                        
                            Ohio
                         banking is treated well in C. C. 
                            Huntington
                        , A History of Banking and Currency in 
                                Ohio
                             before the Civil War (
                                Ohio
                             Archaeological and Historical Society Publications, Vol. XXIV; 
                            Columbus
                        , 1915).
               
                  6 John S. Still, "Ethan Allen 
                            Brown
                         and 
                            Ohio
                        's Canal System," 
                     
                                Ohio
                             Historical Quarterly, LXVI (January, 1957), 22-29; Harry N. Scheiber,
                        "The 
                            Ohio
                         Canal Movement, 1820-1825," ibid., LXIX (July, 1960),
                        231-37.
               
                  7 Acts of February 3, February 4, 1825, 
                     
                                Ohio
                             Laws: General, 1825, original prints in the 
                            Ohio
                         Historical Society, 
                            Columbus
                        .
               
                  8 Still, "Ethan Allen 
                            Brown
                        ," 4Iff.; Harry N. Scheiber, "Ebenezer Buckingham," Museum Echoes, XXXIII (December, 1960), 90-93; Harry N. Scheiber,
                        "Simon Perkins," ibid. (June, 1960), 43-46.
               
                  9
                        
                            Ohio
                        , Executive Documents (1845-1846), Vol. II. Documents I and II
                        provide a full and detailed account of the board's operations. Discussion of
                        compensation and lack of office space at 
                            Columbus
                         may be found ibid., 580, and in 
                            Ohio
                        , Senate Journal (1825-1826), 207-208. One commissioner spoke
                        bitterly of the legislature's
            
            
            
               Table 1∗
                   OHIO BONDS SOLD, 1825-18321
               
               
                  
                            Year
                        
                  
                            Interest and redemption date
                        
                  
                            Amount
                            2
                        
                  
                            Premium
                            3
                        
               
               
                  1825
                  5 per cent, 1850
                  é400,000
                  (–$10,000)
               
               
                  1826
                  6 per cent, 1850
                  1,000,000
                  8,475
               
               
                  1827
                  6 per cent, 1850
                  1,200,000
                  77,580
               
               
                  1828
                  6 per cent, 1850
                  1,200,000
                  48,840
               
               
                  1830
                  6 per cent, 1850
                  600,000
                  105,400
               
               
                  1832
                  6 per cent, 1850
                  100,000
                  24,000
               
            
            
               
                  1 Bond issues shown in this table comprise the entire long term debt
                        incurred by the state for construction of the canals authorized in February, 1825. All sales
                        were to 
                            New York
                         or 
                            Philadelphia
                         investors and paid in eastern funds.
               
                  2
                        
                            Par
                         value (redemption) of principal.
               
                  3 Amount paid by purchasers in excess of par value (1825 sale was at
                        $10,000 discount, all other sales, 1826-1832, at premiums). Unusually high premiums
                        paid in 1830 and 1832 were the consequence of a general decline in interest rates for government
                        securities in the American market. Amount actually received by the state from bond purchasers is
                        the total of columns (3) and (4).
               
                  ∗
                        Source:
                        
                            Ohio
                        , Executive Documents (1845-1846), Part II, 650-59.
            
            
            Despite such handicaps, the fund board carried out its work with remarkable success. In early 1825,
                    it marketed the $400,000 bond issue in 
                        New York
                    , permitting construction of the canals to commence under direction of a sister agency,
                    the board of canal commissioners. In the years that followed, the fund commissioners successfully
                    marketed additional bond issues, amounting in all to $4.5 million—sufficient
                    to complete the two canals10 (See Table 1). A key factor which explains the
                    efficiency of their operations was their early decision to employ the banks in 
                        Ohio
                    . The banks were privately owned, but were chartered by the legislature and were already
                    closely interrelated with the state government since they enjoyed tax exemptions and the state held
                    a small amount of stock in each one. The ten banks which had survived the Panic of 1819 and the
                    ensuing depression in 
                        Ohio
                     were all small scale, local enterprises. As noted earlier, their total paid-in capital
                    was then less than $1 million; and they had all curtailed their operations severely
                    during the years of depression since 1819.11
            
            The fund board-bank relationship was established immediately after the bond issue had been marketed
                    in 
                        New York
                     in April, 1825. To hold canal funds in the East, and to act as the state's
                    agent in stock transfer and interest payment transactions, the fund board selected the Bank of
                    Manhattan in 
                        New York City
                    . The board agreed to keep a minimum of $50,000 on deposit there, and to
                    withdraw funds payable in 
                        Ohio
                     at not less than 120 days' notice. The Manhattan Bank, in turn, paid 5 per
                    cent interest on the deposit.12 Then the fund board invited four leading 
                        Ohio
                     banks to become depositories for canal funds in 
                        Ohio
                     on the following terms: (1) The banks would accept funds as withdrawn from the
                    Manhattan Bank, treating 120-day drafts as cash deposits. (2) The banks would honor checks drawn by
                    the canal commissioners for payment of construction expenses to contractors and suppliers; and
                    should payments exceed current state deposits, the banks would advance funds at 5 per cent interest.
                    (3) As compensation for such services, the banks would receive "
                        New York
                     funds" (generally worth 1 to 4 per cent more than 
                        Ohio
                     funds). Most important, however, the banks would be able to pay contractors in their
                    own notes, thus giving their paper a wider circulation in 
                        Ohio
                    .13
            
            
               refusal to provide for compensation. Ebenezer Buckingham to E. A. 
                            Brown
                        , January 21, 28, 1828, Ethan Allen 
                            Brown
                         Papers (
                            Ohio
                         State Library, 
                            Columbus
                        ). Data in this article concerning policies are drawn mainly from the Letterbooks of
                        the Board of Canal Fund Commissioners (3 vols., 
                            Ohio
                         State Archives, 
                            Ohio
                         Historical Society). Subsequently cited as BFC Letters.
               
                  10 Studies of 
                            Ohio
                         canal construction and finance include Ernest L. Bogart, Internal
                            Improvements and State Debt in 
                                Ohio
                            
                   (
                            New York
                        , 1924); Still, "Ethan Allen 
                            Brown
                        ," 41ff., on the fund board; Harvey H. Segal, "Canal Cycles,
                        1834-1861: Public Construction Experience in 
                     New
                            York, Pennsylvania
                   and 
                            Ohio
                        " (Ph.D. Dissertation, Department of Economics, 
                            Columbia
                         University, 
                            New York
                        , 1956); and Harry N. Scheiber, 
                     
                                Ohio
                             Canal Era (
                     Athens, Ohio
                        , 1969).
               
                  11 See 
                            Huntington
                        , Banking and Currency, 311 et passim and
                        William T. Utter, The Frontier State, 1803-1825 (The History of the State of 
                                Ohio
                            
                  , Vol. II; 
                            Columbus
                        , 1942), 263-95 et passim.
               
               
                  12 Board of Canal Fund Commissioners (hereafter cited BFC), Report, 
                            Ohio
                        , House Journal (1825-1826), 47.
               
                  13 Circular to banks, April 14, 1825, BFC Letters.
            
            
            Three of the banks queried consented to these terms, except that they agreed to accept 60-day drafts
                    on the Bank of Manhattan in 
                        New York
                     instead of 120-day drafts. The 
                        Lancaster
                     Bank was then assigned to disburse funds for payments on the Miami Canal and on the
                    central and southern portions of the 
                        Ohio
                     Canal. The Western Reserve Bank at 
                        Warren
                     was named to handle disbursements on the 
                        Ohio
                     Canal's northern line. The 
                        Franklin
                     Bank of 
                        Columbus
                     also paid contractors on the Miami Canal; but it passed out of the picture quickly,
                    withdrawing from the agreement after handling only about $20,000 in payments.14
            
            A system of controls over the payment of funds to contractors was then established in which the
                    disbursing banks played an important role. The canal commission met quarterly to requisition the
                    funds needed to pay contractors during the ensuing three month period. Upon receipt of their
                    requisition, the fund board issued drafts on the Manhattan Bank in 
                        New York
                     for the sum required and authorized the 
                        Ohio
                     disbursing banks to honor checks for the canal commission. The 
                        Ohio
                     banks were permitted to honor the canal commissioners' checks to contractors
                    only when a certificate had been deposited by the engineer in charge of the work, stating that the
                    contractor had completed the job satisfactorily. The banks thus performed, in effect, an elementary
                    auditing function as a service to the board.15
            
            This disbursement system worked satisfactorily during the first few months of canal construction. In
                    October, 1825, however, a difficulty arose which required modification of the system. In that month, 
                        Brown
                     (who lived in 
                        Cincinnati
                    ) informed his colleagues on the fund board that the 
                        Cincinnati
                     brokers would soon begin to accept, at a small discount, the canal
                    commission's checks to Miami Canal contractors. These checks were drawn on the 
                        Lancaster
                     Bank, whose paper had never been widely circulated in the 
                        Cincinnati
                     area and was not well known there; as a result, contractors on the Miami Canal had
                    encountered difficulty in cashing checks anywhere but at the bank itself, which was inconveniently
                    distant from the canal line. It was now expected that the 
                        Cincinnati
                     brokers would accept the checks, since they could easily accumulate large sums and
                    present the paper in 
                        Lancaster
                     for payment in specie. 
                        Brown
                     believed that this would be a favorable development because the contractors would be
                    accommodated, and it would eliminate a source of discontent among them. Buckingham, on the other
                    hand, was appalled by the prospect of a concentration of 
                        Lancaster
                     Bank checks in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . This, he wrote, would "prove fatal to our whole system of Bank deposits at
                    present so advantageous to the State…. It will be recollected that the principal
                    advantage we intend depositing Banks shall derive from our transactions is to be found in the more
                    extensive circulation of their Paper." Should the 
                        Cincinnati
                     brokers cause a run on the bank's 
                  
                     14 Letters received, dated April 30, May 18, May 21, 1825, ibid.; 
                                Brown
                             to Buckingham, October 8, 1825, 
                                Brown
                             Papers; Buckingham to 
                                Lancaster
                             and Western Reserve banks, December 19, 1825, BFC Letters.
                  
                     15 BFC to banks, June 9, 1825; BFC to Alfred Kelley, June 10, 1825,
                            BFC Letters.
               
                     specie reserves, it would remove "the only inducement
                    for … [the bank] to continue the arrangement."16
            
            Before this difference of opinion had been settled, the fund board learned that the Bank of the 
                        United States
                     branch at 
                        Cincinnati
                     had begun to accept the 
                        Lancaster
                     Bank checks at 0.5 per cent discount. Anticipating a run on the 
                        Lancaster
                     institution's specie, Buckingham denounced this as an attempt by the Bank of
                    the 
                        United States
                     "to break up" the fund board's arrangements with the 
                        Lancaster
                     Bank.17 He then urged the 
                        Lancaster
                     Bank directors to appoint an agent at 
                        Dayton
                     or elsewhere on the Miami Canal line to cash the bank's checks in its own
                    notes. 
                        Brown
                     was persuaded of the wisdom of this plan when Canal Commissioner Micajah Williams
                    supported Buckingham's view. In late November, therefore, the 
                        Lancaster
                     Bank directors, according to Buckingham's suggestion, appointed an agent and
                    provided him with notes of one to five dollars' denomination to insure the widest possible
                    distribution of the paper.18 Williams saw to it that the canal contractors did
                    not object to being paid in small notes. Those contractors who did object were refused the 10 per
                    cent advance payment on contracts which was authorized at the discretion of the acting commissioner
                    on the line.19
            
            As this episode illustrates, the major risk for the disbursing banks was the possibility that their
                    notes would be returned for redemption when specie funds were short, or even before funds had been
                    received from the Manhattan Bank in 
                        New York
                     on the fund board's 60-day drafts. This risk was especially great for the
                    Western Reserve Bank, which paid out its notes on a canal line relatively close to its own location
                    at 
                        Warren
                    . Thus, the Western Reserve Bank proved far more reluctant than the 
                        Lancaster
                     institution to make large advances to the fund board.20 The 
                        Lancaster
                     Bank, protected from runs as indicated above by the cooperation of the fund board, paid
                    out as much as $845,000 in a single season (1830).21
            
            When the partially completed canals were first opened to traffic in 1827 and began to produce revenue
                    from tolls, the fund commissioners ordered collectors to deposit their receipts with the two
                    disbursing banks. The legislature also appropriated money from general revenues for canal purposes
                    and 
                  
                     16 Buckingham to 
                                Brown
                            , October 18, 1825, BFC Letters; 
                                Brown
                             to Buckingham, October 8, 1825, 
                                Brown
                             Papers; see also 
                                Ohio
                            , Senate Journal (1826-1827), 232-33.
                  
                     17 BFC to 
                                Lancaster
                             Bank, October 21, 1825, BFC Letters.
                  
                     18 Buckingham to 
                                Brown
                            , October 31, 1825; 
                                Brown
                             to Buckingham, November 5, 1825, 
                                Brown
                             Papers; J. Creed to M. T. Williams, November 27, 1825, Micajah T. Williams
                            Papers (
                                Ohio
                             State Library).
                  
                     19 This incident was recalled by S. F. Maccracken in a letter to S.
                            Forrer, April 30, 1834, BFC Letters.
                  
                     20 Indeed for five months beginning September, 1827, the Western
                            Reserve Bank suspended its depository functions, owing to the "labour and
                            hazzard" of disbursing large sums so close to its location. Letters of August 2,
                            September 19, 1827, BFC Letters.
                  
                     21
                            
                                Ohio
                            , House Journal (1830-1831), 256-62; 
                                Ohio
                            , Senate Journal (1826-1827), 232-33.
               
                     authorized the loan of various school fund reserves to the
                    canal fund, and these too were deposited with the disbursing banks.22 Hence by
                    early 1827 the profitability of the disbursing agencies had become evident; and the Bank of 
                        Chillicothe
                    , which had earlier refused to cooperate with the fund board, reversed its stand and
                    requested assignment as a disbursing bank. By this time, however, the other banks, particularly the 
                        Lancaster
                     Bank, had so obliged the fund board by the "promptness and alacrity"
                    with which they had served the state's needs, that the board rejected the 
                        Chillicothe
                     bank's offer.23 Further recognition of the 
                        Lancaster
                     Bank's importance was accorded when one of its directors, Samuel F.
                    Maccracken, was appointed to the fund board to succeed 
                        Brown
                    , who resigned in 1830 when he entered the federal service.
            What were the advantages to the state of disbursing canal funds through private banks? In the first
                    place, it freed the fund board from the necessity of engaging in banking operations, a task which it
                    had no inclination to undertake. As an officer of the 
                        Lancaster
                     Bank testified in 1838, the state had been saved "risk and expense which must
                    have been incident to … [disbursing] the millions paid to contractors … on a
                    line of 400 miles of canals, passing the greater part of the way through a wilderness
                        country."24 Secondly, the willingness of the two 
                        Ohio
                     banks to waive their usual discount fee on 60-day drafts on 
                        New York
                     permitted the fund board to sustain its arrangement with the Manhattan Bank, by which
                    the latter paid 5 per cent interest on the canal fund deposit; and these interest payments amounted
                    to more than $25,000 in the period 1825-1831.25
            
            The advantages gained by the banks themselves hinged largely on the opportunity to give their paper a
                    wider circulation. The influx of $4.5 million in eastern funds during the years 1825-1831
                    provided an unprecedented opportunity for note issue expansion, something the fund board and the
                    disbursing banks were quick to perceive.26
            
            Markedly changed conditions after 1831 required the board to alter its system for disbursements and
                    interest payment. From 1825 to 1831, eastern bondholders had been paid their semiannual interest out
                    of funds on deposit 
                  
                     22
                            
                                Ohio
                            , Executive Documents (1836-1837), No. 72, Exhibit
                            "F."
                  
                     23 BFC to J. Woodbridge, December 25, 1826, BFG Letters.
                  
                     24
                            
                                Ohio
                            , Executive Documents (1837-1838), No. 30, pp. 47-48.
                  
                     25
                            
                                Ohio
                            , House Journal (1830-1831), 257-62.
                  
                     26 In 1833 Governor Robert Lucas remarked that the nearly five million
                            dollars expended on canal construction since 1825 had been "thrown into
                            circulation, and during the progress of the work, formed a considerable portion of the
                            currency of the State." 
                                Ohio
                            , Senate Journal (1833-1834), 9-10. See also 
                                Ohio
                            , House Journal (1836-1837), 649-56; and Buckingham to 
                                Brown
                            , September 1, September 5, 1826, 
                                Brown
                             Papers. In BFC to J. Woodbridge, December 25, 1826, BFC Letters, there is
                            reference to disbursements by the 
                                Lancaster
                             Bank of more than $500,000 in its notes to canal contractors in a
                            single construction season. For similar effects in 
                                New York
                             State, see Miller, Enterprise of a Free People,
                        115-29.
               
                     with the Manhattan Bank; that is, money accruing from bond
                    sales and held in 
                        New York
                     had been used for interest payment.27 By mid-1831, however, the
                    imminent completion of the canals and the depletion of funds on deposit in the Manhattan Bank
                    necessitated a new arrangement. Now the revenues from taxes, and also tolls collected in 
                        Ohio
                    , needed to be transferred semiannually to the East in order to make the interest
                    payments. Also, the sale of the Miami Canal lands, beginning in 1832, provided a major new source of
                    revenue. Unlike the funds obtained through bond sales, land revenues came to the state in 
                        Ohio
                     currency rather than in eastern funds.28 Furthermore, in the years
                    after 1831 (and particularly in the period 1834-1837), there was a marked expansion in banking
                    capital and bank note circulation in 
                        Ohio
                    .29 Newly founded banks provided the fund board with a wider choice
                    of facilities for its operations in 
                        Ohio
                    . At the same time, the proliferation of banking institutions intensified competition
                    for the patronage of the fund board.
            When the interest due in January, 1832, was paid in 
                        New York
                    , the fund board's deposit in the Manhattan Bank fell close to the
                    $50,000 minimum it had agreed to maintain there. To provide for the payment of the
                    semiannual interest due in July, 1832, Buckingham requested that each 
                        Ohio
                     bank provide drafts on 
                        New York
                     in exchange for its own paper currently held by the state treasury, offering to pay a
                    1.5 per cent premium for the 
                        New York
                     funds. In response, banks at 
                        Columbus
                    , Marietta, 
                        Warren
                    , and 
                        Cleveland
                     offered 
                        New York
                     exchange for their own notes. Only the Bank of 
                        Chillicothe
                     refused to do so; but the 
                        Lancaster
                     Bank agreed to provide 
                        New York
                     funds for 
                        Chillicothe
                     notes as well as for its own, charging no premium for the transfer. In this manner, the
                    board obtained a total of $68,000 in 
                        New York
                     funds, the 
                        Lancaster
                     Bank providing more than half of the total.30
            
            In October, 1832, a new agreement was concluded with the Manhattan Bank. Since the fund board could
                    no longer guarantee a $50,000 minimum deposit, it now engaged the Manhattan Bank as its
                    transfer agent, paying the bank a $2,000 annual fee. The bank, in turn, agreed to pay 3
                    per cent interest on all deposits in excess of $5,000, and to handle the payment of
                    semiannual interest to eastern bondholders.31
            
            The interest due to bondholders in January, 1833, was paid out of the eastern funds received from the
                    sale of the November, 1832, bond issue 
                  
                     27 By this device, the fund board avoided the cost of transferring
                            funds from 
                                New York
                             to 
                                Ohio
                             and then eastward again.
                  
                     28 On the canal lands and their sale, see Harry N. Scheiber,
                            "State Policy and the Public Domain," Journal of Economic
                                History, XXV (March, 1965), 86-113.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Huntington
                            , Banking and Currency, 354-83.
                  
                     30 Letters of January 11, February 14, 18, 1832, BFC Letters; 
                                Ohio
                            , Senate Journal (1832-1833), 220-23; H. Clark to Thomas
                            Ewing, December 10, 1833, Thomas Ewing Papers (
                                Ohio
                             Historical Society).
                  
                     31
                            
                                Ohio
                            , Senate Journal (1832-1833), 220-23.
               
                     of $100,000 (See Table 1). For payment of the July
                    interest, the fund board reverted to the method it had employed in 1832: 
                        Ohio
                     bank notes held by the treasury were returned to the issuing banks, which provided 
                        New York
                     funds, receiving a 1 per cent premium for the 
                        New York
                     exchange. Once again, the 
                        Lancaster
                     Bank offered exchange for 
                        Ohio
                     banks' notes other than its own, charging no premium. A total of
                    $156,946 in eastern funds was obtained, of which the 
                        Lancaster
                     Bank provided more than $100,000.32
            
            From 1833 to 1837, the semiannual interest due eastern bondholders each period was
                    $134,000. In order to systematize interest payment, the fund board formed a close
                    association with two 
                        Ohio
                     banks in January, 1834, when it agreed to place all of its funds on
                    deposit with the 
                        Lancaster
                     Bank and the Commercial Bank of Lake Erie. The Commercial Bank,
                    located at 
                        Cleveland
                    , was to receive deposits of all canal tolls collected on the 
                        Ohio
                     Canal's northern division; the bank in turn agreed to provide the fund board
                    semiannually with 
                        New York
                     exchange, at no charge to the state, up to the amount on deposit. The 
                        Lancaster
                     Bank was to receive on deposit all other tolls collected on the canals, as well as such
                    additional funds as were controlled by the fund board, including the proceeds of Miami Canal land
                    sales. The bank consented to provide without charge 
                        New York
                     exchange up to $134,000 semiannually—or, in practical terms,
                    $134,000 less the sum transferred by the Commercial Bank.33
            
            The advantages to the 
                        Lancaster
                     Bank were extensive. The balance of canal funds on deposit with the bank had ranged
                    from $3,608 to $42,870 at the end of each year during the period 1828-1832.
                    From 1833 to 1836, however, the balances on deposit ran between $95,000 and
                        $104,000.34 The bank thus enjoyed the valuable privilege of
                    holding very large deposits without paying interest. Moreover, when payments to canal contractors
                    were required, the bank regularly paid out at par value the paper of other banks, much of which was
                    depreciated currency that it had obtained at large discounts.35 The January,
                    1834, contract with the 
                        Lancaster
                     Bank was clearly obtained through the influence of Samuel F. Maccracken, a major
                    stockholder in the bank who had become a fund commissioner in 1830. Maccracken administered the
                    books of the board at his home in 
                        Lancaster
                     from Buckingham's death, in 1833, until 1840. His unblushing favoritism toward
                    his own bank was evident immediately after he assumed the informal chairmanship of the fund board,
                    and he consistently sought to protect the favored position of his bank.36
            
            
               
                  32 Letter of June 17, 1833, BFC Letters; 
                            Ohio
                        , House Journal (1836-1837), 650.
               
                  33
                        
                            Ohio
                        , House Journal (1836-1837), 655-56.
               
                  34 Computed from annual reports of the BFC, 1828-1836.
               
                  35 Maccracken to S. Forrer, April 30, 1834, BFC Letters.
               
                  36 See, for example, letters of May 7, 24, 29, August 14, 1833, BFC
                        Letters; Maccracken to Alfred Kelley, June 8, 1833, Canal Commission Papers.
            
            
            Maccracken obtained the consent of the other two commissioners—Simon Perkins and Daniel
                    Kilgore, a Cadiz banker who succeeded Buckingham—before concluding the arrangement with
                    the 
                        Lancaster
                     Bank. Perkins exacted his price, however. A stockholder and officer of the Commercial
                    Bank of Lake Erie, Perkins insisted that a similar arrangement be concluded
                    with his own institution.37 The advantages gained by the Commercial Bank were
                    comparatively limited since it was required to transfer all canal funds on hand semiannually,
                    retaining no unexpended balance. However, Perkins saw to it that other patronage was extended. For
                    example, county treasurers in northern 
                        Ohio
                     were ordered to deposit their state tax collections in the Commercial Bank instead of
                    remitting the funds to the state treasury at 
                        Columbus
                    . At a later time, the state treasurer paid out the bank's notes in places
                    remote from 
                        Cleveland
                    , and fund commissioners permitted the bank to do likewise in the payment of canal
                    commissioners' drafts.38 The bank's cashier, Truman P. Handy,
                    succinctly expressed his view of the bank's services to the state: he presumed
                    "that in the long run we shall not be losers in the business."39
            
            Mounting resentment of the favored position enjoyed by the two banks inevitably found political
                    expression. In the 1836-1837 session of the 
                        Ohio
                     General Assembly, the house committee on finance presented a report harshly critical of
                    the deposit and disbursement policies of the fund board—particularly of the
                    board's arrangement with the 
                        Lancaster
                     Bank. State funds had been transferred to that bank "almost
                    immediately" after their receipt by the treasury, the report asserted; yet there was no
                    evidence that the funds would have been less safe if deposited temporarily in other local banks.40
            
            The committee reported a bill which provided for the deposit of canal tolls in solvent banks located
                    in the immediate vicinity of the various collectors' offices. In this manner, the report
                    asserted, the semiannual transfer of 
                        Ohio
                     funds to 
                        New York
                     might be accomplished "in the business transactions of our commercial
                    men." By dealing with numerous banks located throughout the state, the fund board could
                    permit "the greatest number of this class of our community to participate in any advantages
                    which might grow out of such transmission and deposit."41
            
            
               
                  37 Maccracken to Perkins, December 10, 1833, BFC Letters. The Commercial
                        Bank of Lake Erie had been reorganized, under an old charter, in 1832 by
                        the wealthy Dwight family of 
                            Massachusetts
                        . Its directors included several men prominent in 
                            Ohio
                         politics and canal administration, especially Canal Commissioner Alfred Kelley and
                        Fund Commissioner Perkins. See Scheiber, "Commercial Bank of Lake
                        Erie," Business History Review, XL (Spring, 1966), 47-65.
               
                  38 T. P. Handy to Maccracken, November 6, 1833, Commercial Bank of
                            Lake Erie Papers (Western Reserve Historical Society,
                                
                     Cleveland, Ohio
                        ); Maccracken to H. 
                            Brown
                        , November 14, 1833, BFC Letters.
               
                  39 Handy to Maccracken, April 15, 1834, Commercial Bank Papers.
               
                  40 Report, 
                            Ohio
                        , House Journal (1836-1837), 648.
               
                        41
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            The legislature responded by vesting in the state treasurer the power to select banks to receive the
                    deposit of funds accruing from the sale of 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal lands. In a separate resolution, the assembly required the fund board
                    thenceforth to solicit bids from all 
                        Ohio
                     banks for the deposit of other canal funds, and to place the funds in those
                    institutions offering the best terms. Acting under the new legislation, the treasurer deposited the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie funds in three separate banks;42 and the fund board placed
                    other canal revenues in the 
                        Ohio
                     Life Insurance & Trust Company at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and in the Marietta Bank, as well as in the two former deposit banks, which now had to
                    offer high interest rates to retain their deposits.43
            
            In the 1836-1837 legislative session, there were also strong expressions of dissatisfaction with the
                    fund commission's failure to keep accurate and intelligible accounts of its operations.44 Yet, despite the board's heavy workload, the assembly appropriated
                    no funds for a staff nor for an office at 
                        Columbus
                     for the board. Neither did it press for a reorganization of the agency. The key to the
                    legislature's action in instituting the new rules for deposit of canal funds was probably
                    the increasing activity of the many newly chartered banking institutions in the state. Despite the
                    rising influence of hard money Democrats, no evidence has been found that the new deposit
                    regulations were designed to curb the activities of the state banks. The action of the assembly was
                    probably inspired instead by aggressive bankers seeking a wider field for their own
                    operations—in this case, a field formerly dominated by two institutions because of the
                    favoritism of the fund board. The 1837 canal fund regulations were, therefore, perhaps the last
                    expression of bankers' influence in formulating Democratic banking legislation in 
                        Ohio
                     prior to the hard money, "loco foco" faction's assumption of
                    full control over this aspect of the party policy by 1839.45
            
            The enactment of new rules for deposit and disbursement of canal funds coincided with a vast
                    expansion of 
                        Ohio
                    's public works program. During the 1835-1836 and 1836-1837 sessions of the
                    legislature, new bond issues were authorized to help finance construction of the Miami Canal
                    Extension from 
                        Dayton
                     to 
                        Toledo
                    ; the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal, which like the Miami was already being partially financed by the sale
                    of lands granted by Congress; and several major ancillary lines to the 
                        Ohio
                     Canal. In addition, the 
                  
                     42 The 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie Canal Fund consisted of revenue from the sale of lands granted by
                            Congress to Indiana and later transferred to 
                                Ohio
                            ; they were sold beginning in October, 1836. See Scheiber, "State
                            Policy and the Public Domain," 103. The 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie funds were placed in the 
                                Urbana
                             Bank, the 
                                Ohio
                             Life Insurance & Trust of 
                                Cincinnati
                            , and the Commercial Bank of Lake Erie. Letter of May 16,
                            1837, BFC Letters.
                  
                     43
                            
                                Ohio
                            , Executive Documents (1837-1838), No. 20, pp. 3-8.
                  
                     44
                            Ibid. (1836-1837), No. 72, passim.
                  
                  
                     45 Shifting alignments within the 
                                Ohio
                             Democratic party are treated in Francis P. Weisenburger, Passing
                                of the Frontier, 1825-1850 (The History of the State of 
                                    Ohio
                                
                     , Vol. III; 
                                Columbus
                            , 1941).
               
                     general assembly voted virtually unlimited public aid to
                    private canal, turnpike, and railroad companies which qualified, under statutory provisions of an
                    1837 "Loan Law," for stock subscriptions or loans by the state. Additional trunk
                    line road construction by the state was also authorized.46 Moreover, the
                    assembly placed all the public works, new and old, under control of a single administrative agency,
                    the Board of Public Works, that would succeed the Canal Commission with responsibilities for
                    construction and operation. The promulgation of new rules for the fund board's deposit and
                    disbursement of funds therefore must be understood as part of a major reorganization of the state
                    agencies and their operations, as 
                        Ohio
                     prepared for enlargement of its commitments in the field of internal improvements.47
            
            As the foregoing account of 
                        Ohio
                    's management of public canal funds during 1825-1836 demonstrates, the impact
                    of state policy on banking extended well beyond the effects of formal promotional and regulatory
                    legislation: there was also an important area of interplay in the day-to-day administrative
                    functioning of the state. Perhaps the most surprising discovery of this study is the remarkable lack
                    of sensitivity (at least until 1836) to conflicts of interest in the fund board-bank relationship.
                    In the first place, the fund board did not have a staff, and it did not perform close auditing of
                    the deposit banks' operations. In effect, a group of three unpaid state officials, working
                    at official tasks on a part time basis, delegated to privately controlled banks the details of
                    disbursing large (indeed, unprecedented) sums of public money. This was perhaps symptomatic of the
                    more general "administrative under-development" that characterized American state
                    government prior to 1860. The states undertook new functions during that period, and they played an
                    active role in the economy; but they did not always establish administrative agencies with the staff
                    and funding necessary to make them truly professional. Even in the 
                        Ohio
                     fund board's annual reports there was a startling lack of information or
                    precision. Indeed, a critic later charged that the public record of the board's activities
                    was as "unintelligible to the people as would be the mysterious characters traced upon the
                    walls of the darkest chamber of an Egyptian pyramid."48
            
            The vagaries of the board's published reports simply invited criticism that probably would
                    have been expressed anyway, because of the obvious strain of favoritism in all the
                    commissioners' policies. The legislature had left the door wide open to favoritism when it
                    appointed only bankers to the fund board. Apparently the prevailing attitude was that the ablest 
                        Ohio
                    
                    
                  
                     46
                            Ibid., 101-18; Scheiber, 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Canal Era, 107-13.
                  
                     47 The enlarged system of public works eventually increased the state
                            debt from $4.5 million to nearly $20 million. See 
                                Ohio
                            , Executive Documents (1845-1846), II, 76, 593-94.
                  
                     48
                            
                                Columbus
                             (
                                Ohio
                            ) Journal and Register, March 21, 1838. Administrative
                            under-development is a main theme of Goodrich, Government Promotion of American
                                Canals and Railroads, 285-87 et passim.
                  
               
                     bankers ought to be recruited to manage state finances,
                    especially if they could be mobilized at no cost in salaries. Every fund commissioner who served
                    during 1825-1837 was a director of at least one bank, and Simon Perkins was the principal
                    stockholder of the Western Reserve Bank.49 The commissioners may well have
                    believed that they were best protecting the state's interest by depositing funds in banks
                    managed by their own private associates. Yet the conclusion is inescapable that they profited
                    directly from such deposits. One scholar has contended that in the early nineteenth century the
                    public sector was hardly distinguishable from the private sector because so many private enterprises
                    (such as banking) depended heavily upon special privileges (incorporation, tax exemptions, etc.)
                    that were bestowed by state governments.50 To this one might append the further
                    observation that state fiscal officers, in 
                        Ohio
                     at least, functioned in such a manner that their private interests and their public
                    responsibilities were interlocked almost inextricably.
            Finally, it is noteworthy that the sums deposited by the state government in 
                        Ohio
                     banks were for several years much larger than the federal Treasury
                    Department's deposits in the latter's operations under the "pet
                    bank" depository policies of President Andrew Jackson during 1833-1837. State canal fund
                    deposits had much the same effects as federal deposits: they stimulated bank credit expansion by
                    providing a larger base of reserves on which banks might issue their notes.51
                    Moreover, the state's canal construction operations gave the banks an unprecedented
                    opportunity to issue notes at remote locations, where the paper would be unlikely to return quickly
                    for redemption. This too stimulated expansion of note issues. But like the sudden disappearance of
                    the federal fiscal surplus in 1837, the termination of state borrowing for canal purposes suddenly
                    threatened the stability of banks. It put the banks under pressure at the very time when state
                    deposits had encouraged overexpansion. Had federal Treasury deposits not taken up the slack, a
                    serious banking contraction might have resulted within the state.
            In summary, the 
                        Ohio
                     state government followed 
                        New York
                    's example by employing state banks to handle many of the fiscal operations
                    associated with canal construction. The administrative policy adopted in 1825, without benefit of
                    explicit legislative authority, had as one of its stated objectives the aiding 
                  
                     49 Ethan Allen 
                                Brown
                             apparently was not actively engaged in banking at the time of his appointment,
                            but he had close ties with the 
                                Cincinnati
                             banking community and had held several directorships. See Harry R. Stevens,
                            "Bank Enterprisers in a Western Town, 1815-1822," Business
                                History Review, XXIX (1955), 139-56.
                  
                     50 Oscar Handlin, foreward to Stephen Salsbury, The
                                State, the Investor, and the Railroad: The 
                                    Boston
                                 and 
                                    Albany
                                , 1825-1867 (
                                Cambridge
                            , 1967), vii.
                  
                     51 See Harry N. Scheiber, "The Pet Banks in Jacksonian
                            Politics and Finance, 1833-1841," Journal of Economic History,
                            XXIII (June, 1963), 196-214. The full spectrum of interplay between the state governments
                            and the Treasury is considered in Paul B. Trescott, "Federal-State Financial
                            Relations, 1790-1860," Journal of Economic History, XV
                            (September, 1955), 227-45.
               
                     of bank credit expansion within the state. But neither the
                    legislature's comprehension of the resulting operations, nor the level of staffing or
                    professionalism that characterized the fund board's operations, was commensurate with the
                    importance of those operations. When the legislature finally reestablished its control over deposits
                    of canal funds in 1837, its principal motivation apparently was to diffuse this particular form of
                    state patronage as widely as possible throughout the state—it was not an
                    "anti-bank" move, and seems to have involved no anticorporate or "loco
                    foco" animus, as would characterize the 
                        Ohio
                     Democratic party's banking policy later in the 1830s. Throughout the thirteen
                    year period considered here, the political leadership of the state appeared quite willing to accept
                        ad hoc solutions to administrative problems, instead of moving toward true
                    professionalization of state fiscal operations.
         
         
         
            The Mexican War: Some Personal Correspondance
            Edited by R. B. Weber∗
            
            After battles, surviving soldiers often sit down and write letters home revealing their feelings
                    about their experiences. So Captain Thomas Ware Gibson's1 missive, the
                    initial letter here, is part of a typical pattern. Yet, it is no flat, ordinary little document,
                    drily factual or vapidly general. What raises it out of the ordinary are the captain's
                    vivid style, his honesty, his wit, and the assumptions—conscious and
                    unconscious—he makes about himself and the men with whom he served.
            On June 9, 1846, a group of 
                        Clark County
                     volunteers for the Mexican War was commissioned as a company by the State of Indiana.
                    Called "The Clark Guards," they were led by Captain Thomas Ware Gibson of 
                        Charlestown
                    . On June 22, 1846, a Colonel S. Churchill mustered them into the 
                        United States
                     Army at New 
                        Albany
                    , Indiana, as twelve month volunteers; they became Company I, Third Regiment, Indiana
                    Volunteers. In early July they left Indiana for 
                        New Orleans
                     and by the eighteenth of the month had been shipped from there to Mexico.2
            
            In Mexico they joined General Zachary Taylor's command. At the end of February, 1847, they
                    became involved, at three crucial points, in the Battle of Buena Vista. On the morning of the second
                    day of fighting, after the American left flank had been broken (caused partly by the rout of the
                    Second Indiana), the Third Indiana helped Colonel Jefferson Davis and his 
                        Mississippi
                     rifle regiment repulse the Mexicans. Soon after midday the same group broke up a major
                    enemy cavalry charge. Late that afternoon they fought together to aid in saving the American
                        center.3 Thus Gibson and his men materially assisted in maintaining the
                    American hold on the field of conflict. Even though they did not fight throughout the entire battle
                    (they were held in reserve during the first day and at the beginning of the second), they
                    understandably felt that they had taken a major part in a victory, even if, as Otis Singletary has
                    concluded, "Tactically, it was a drawn battle."4
            
            
               
                  ∗ R. B. Weber is assistant professor of history at Southampton
                        College, Southampton, 
                            New York
                        .
               
                  1 Captain Thomas Ware Gibson was born May 11, 1815, in
                                
                     Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
                  . "By occupation he was a lawyer, in
                        politics a Democrat, and in religion a Christian." He married Mary Wallace Goodwin
                        (born May 23, 1820) of 
                            Clark County
                        , Indiana, on December 9, 1838, in 
                            Clark County
                        . They had six children: Lydia D., born April 9, 1840; Amelia A., born February 6,
                        1842; Sarah C., born July 20, 1844; Thomas Ware, born December 13, 1846; Charles H., born June
                        29, 1848; and George H. D., born September 13, 1851. Gibson practiced law in
                                
                     Louisville, Kentucky
                  . Mary Gibson had a brother 
                            Columbus
                         C. Goodwin. William and Mary College Quarterly Historical
                        Magazine, first series, VIII, supplement (October, 1899), 129.
               
                  2 See Oran Perry (comp.), Indiana in the Mexican War (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1908), 47, 73-74, 78, 413. The company was mustered out of the army by the same
                        Colonel Churchill on June 27, 1847. According to the roster in Perry the company had fifty-two
                        enlisted men and officers when it took part in the Battle of Buena Vista.
               
                  3 Justin H. Smith, The War with Mexico (2 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1919), I, 390-95.
               
                  4 Otis Singletary, The Mexican War (
                            Chicago
                        , 1960), 52.
            
            
            Captain Gibson's letter, fleshing out some of the bare bones of the action and its
                    aftermath, speaks clearly of the situation. The dead Mexicans stink, surviving stragglers may well
                    starve, one of his men died after the amputation of a wounded leg, the biscuits contain bitter bugs;
                    there is hard-ship, but Gibson's humor remains. In addition, he unconsciously reveals
                    chauvinism typical of the time in his use of the term "greasers" for the Mexicans.
                    Furthermore, he hints at his basic American Protestant orientation, both in echoing the first Psalm
                    and in suggesting that he and his men feel "almost disposed" to believe that God
                    was on their side.
            The other two letters, which reflect the feelings of a concerned brother-in-law and a very worried
                    wife, are important here mainly as supplements to the first. Writing almost a month and a half after
                    the Battle of Buena Vista, they have heard no direct word from Gibson since before the battle was
                    fought. They are not positive he is still alive. In fact, Mary Gibson becomes so disturbed at
                    reports that Indiana soldiers ran away during the fighting that she at least momentarily assures her
                    husband may have been one of them and chides them all with a general "you." What
                    comes through most strongly and poignantly, however, is her intense anxiety over the fate of her
                    silent husband.
            None of these letters says anything momentous about the general military and political issues and
                    realities of the time. On the basic level of human personality, though, they provide important
                    insights into the men who actually fought the war and into the people back home who waited for them.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Agua Nueva
                           
                                    Mar. 4th 1847—1
                           
                                
                        Dearest Mary
                        I write oftener perhaps than necessary but I do so in the apprehension that many of
                                    my letters may not reach you on account of our mails sometimes being captured by
                                    straggling parties of the dispersed Mexican army. A party of seven hundred men whom
                                    we sent day before yesterday to pursue the retreating enemy returned last night
                                    after having followed them as far as encarnacion, about thirty miles from here.2 They had all left there, leaving about five hundred of theirs
                                    wounded. Santa Anna could 
                              
                                            
                                    1 In preparing these documents for publication every
                                                effort has been made to represent as closely as possible the handwritten
                                                letters. Spelling and punctuation errors have been allowed to remain;
                                                    [sic] has not been used. No punctuation has been
                                                added. The xeroxed copies used in editing often have caused uncertainty
                                                about punctuation, particularly in the second and third letters; in such
                                                cases the most likely choice has been made. When there is no
                                                punctuation, space has been left in order to increase readability.
                                                Raised letters have been brought down to the line. When full names or
                                                the correct spelling of names are avallable, they have been placed in
                                                brackets in the text.
                                            The original letter from Gibson is in the possession of Miss Jean
                                                Aydelotte of 
                                       Louisville,
                                                        Kentucky
                                    .
                                                The original letters to Gibson, which follow sequentially and make up
                                                one four page manuscript, belong to The Filson Club of
                                                        
                                       Louisville,
                                                        Kentucky
                                    .
                                                Both items are published with the permission of the owners.
                                        
                              
                                 2 La Encarnacion was a hacienda located about
                                            thirty-five miles from Agua Nueva.
                           
                                     muster but about four thousand men when he
                                    left. The number of his killed and wounded has been underrated. We are now satisfied
                                    that not less than twelve hundred were killed & twenty five hundred
                                    wounded—
                        The field of battle is still covered with their dead and the stench is most horrible.
                                    The stragglers are scattered through the mountains by thousands and must many of
                                    them starve to death. You need not expect to hear of any more fighting in this
                                    quarter— It took Santa Anna six months to raise his army and in one day
                                    we scattered it like chaff before the wind. It is now well ascertained that Santa
                                    Anna had twenty one thousand men on the field of battle and we had three thousand
                                    eight hundred all told.3
                        
                        Coombs [Sergeant William Coombes] died on the night of the 27th. His thigh had been
                                    amputated the day before. [Private Martin A.] Conoway the other man wounded in my
                                    company is doing well.4 John Dunn had his trunk robbed during
                                    the battle— they got every thing he had in the world except what was on
                                    his back— He had just been paid a couple of hundred dollars in gold which
                                    fortunately he had about his person & saved it. About thirty of our wounded
                                    have died since the battle making our whole loss killed three hundred— We
                                    have had some fighting between here and camargo,5 the
                                    particulars of which we have not yet learned— We know however that the
                                        greasers6 were whipped. I beleive that our little army could
                                    go out tomorrow in a fair field and whip fifty thousand of the best Mexican troops
                                    that ever were on a field of battle. One thing is certain, we would be willing to
                                    try it.
                        Dead upon the battle field we found many of our acquaintances from Saltillo who had
                                    professed to be great friends of the Americans but who slipped out and joined Santa
                                    Anna as soon as he approached. A great many of the Mexican officers brought their
                                    wives with them, so confident were 
                              
                                 3 It is very difficult to give accurate figures about
                                            the Mexican War. In his study The War with Mexico (2
                                            vols., 
                                                New York
                                            , 1919) Justin Smith says: "One has to be extremely
                                            careful here about making assertions regarding dates and numbers. Affairs
                                            were in such confusion that even headquarters would seem to have been to a
                                            considerable extent in the dark" (I, 480). While Gibson reports
                                            "seven hundred" men sent to La Encarnacion, General
                                            Taylor's report states only that "A command was finally
                                            despatched to Encarnacion …." J. Frost, The
                                                Mexican War and Its Warriors (
                                                New Haven
                                             and 
                                                Philadelphia
                                            , 1849), 119. Taylor also reported "some two hundred
                                            wounded" Mexicans at La Encarnacion and total enemy losses and
                                            wounded at between 1500 and 2000 men. Frost, The Mexican
                                            War, 119. Gibson's assertion about
                                            "thousands" of stragglers, however, seems fairly accurate.
                                            Santa Anna admitted to over 4000 deserters during the battle. Smith, The War with Mexico, I, 397-99. For the size of the
                                            Mexican Army, Gibson seems to use the figure—
                                            21,000—given by a captured Mexican. Smith, The War
                                                with Mexico, I, 388. Taylor listed his forces at 4759 officers and
                                            men. Frost, The Mexican War, 119. Gibson's figure
                                            for those killed, however, agrees with Taylor's report of 267
                                            casulties.
                              
                                 4 Coombes was the only battle casulty in
                                            Gibson's company. Four other men died of unlisted causes between
                                            July 12, 1846, and November 1, 1846. Oran Perry, Indiana in the
                                                Mexican War (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1908), 415.
                              
                                 5 Camargo, northwest of Monterey, was
                                            Taylor's former supply depot, which had been very unhealthy for the
                                            troops and was broken up the previous December. See Smith, The
                                                War with Mexico, I, 210, 356, 484, 493, 506.
                              
                                 6 "Greasers" was a derogatory term
                                            commonly applied to Mexicans or Latin Americans.
                           
                                     they of victory. The 23d was the birth day of
                                    Santa Anna and he had promised his army a great ball in Saltillo at night.7
                        
                        You speak of letting Fleschman work the lot again— If you do, let Bill Me 
                                        Campbell
                                     make the bargain with him and let him understand that he is not to
                                    neglect our part as he did before. If Jo Me Combs would take it, I would much rather
                                    he would have it. We have just heard that judge Dewey has been left out &
                                    Tom Smith appointed in his place— I regret very much to hear this, but it
                                    is just what I anticipated if [Governor James] Whitcomb was elected. I have heard
                                    also that G H. Dunn was elected circuit judge of some circuit made this winter. Tell
                                    Lydia that the Mountains here are full of parrots but I have no fresh salt to put
                                    upon their tails and have not been able to catch her one yet. The flowers I sent by
                                    [Corporal Alexander] Shindle you say you did not get. I wrapped them up in the
                                    blanket & I suppose they got lost out in some way. I was mistaken in telling
                                    you the blanket could be washed with soap— It is true that soap will not
                                    fade it, but the Mexicans use a kind of root to wash it with which makes the colors
                                    brighter than soap— I will bring some of the root home with me. It is one
                                    of the most disagreeable days today I ever saw— The wind is blowing a
                                    hurricane & I am looking every minute for my tent to blow down, and the dust
                                    is so thick that you cannot see twenty steps before you— Nothing to eat
                                    but hard biscuit full of black bitter bugs and salt pork. Pleasant way of living, is
                                    it not? In all the biscuit we have had before the bugs were tolerably well flavored,
                                    but the last lot, are very bitter. In addition to this the enemy captured our coffee
                                    pot during the battle and we have to make coffee in a skillett, but the greatest
                                    hardship I have had to endure yet, was doing without cigars on the day of the
                                    battle.
                        Poor Mose was frightened nearly to death— We left him an[d] 
                                        Mitchell
                                     at the ranche in our rear— They stayed there till about ten
                                    oclock, when a stray cannon ball found its way down there. This was more than they
                                    could stand and they broke for town running every step of the way five miles without
                                    stopping. There was a large body of the enemy's cavalry near the road and
                                    it is a great wonder that they were not both killed.8 Just as
                                    they got to town an attack was made there, so that they jumped out of the frying pan
                                    into the fire. They did not venture to return to camp till three days after the
                                    battle. We all supposed they had been killed or made prisoners. Mose says he did not
                                    run, he only retreated.
                        You say Linn has written me four or five letters— I have received but
                                    two—one of these I answered the day after I got it—the other I
                                    recd the night before the battle and will answer it tomorrow so that he will get my
                                    answer by the same mail that brings this.
                        
                           
                              7 The Mexican general's birthday actually was
                                        February 21, according to the Encyclopedia Britannica (24
                                        vols., 
                                            Chicago
                                        , 1968), XIX, 1036.
                           
                              8 Evidently the two men ran toward Saltillo. The Mexican
                                        cavalry was probably that of Torrejon or Munoz. Smith, The War with
                                            Mexico, I, 390.
                        
                        
                        I mentioned I beleive in one of my letters home to some of you, that John Ross was
                                    killed—-James Ross was near being killed but Frank Williams saved him by
                                    shooting the Mexican who was about to spear him. The 
                                        Louisville
                                     legion to which Col Duersen [William Duerson?] belongs was not in the
                                    battle— They were at Monterey— Genl [Joseph] Lane was wounded
                                    twice—but did not leave the field— Col. [James H.] Lane9 was hit three times but not hurt— I was hit but
                                    once—the ball struck me a glancing blow on the head and knocked me down
                                    but did not hurt me— The ball that killed Coombs clipped my clothes as it
                                    passed— I verily beleive that 100 balls did not miss me six
                                    inches—and that more than a thousand Musket balls passed among the ranks
                                    of my company— How we escaped so well is a miracle—we feel
                                    almost disposed to attribute it to a special interposition of providence in our
                                    behalf. Tell Lin that Milt [Sergeant 
                                        Milton
                                     McCombs] is a good soldier and fought like a hero all day
                        I know of nothing more to write you now. Kiss all the little ones for
                                    me—good night
                        
                                    Yours affectionately
                                    T. Ware Gibson
                                
                        Mrs Mary W. Gibson
                           
                                        Charlestown
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                        Clark County
                                     Ind.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Chearlestown Ind.
                           
                                    April 2nd 1847
                                
                        Dear Tom
                        I recieved your letter of the ninth a week since in which I learned that the
                                    prisoners captured under Gains [Major John P. Gaines] have been shot if they have
                                    been shot their lose will be deeply regreted and will no doubt be retaliated in an
                                    ocean of mexican blood10 I dont know how the devils dare to do
                                    such a thing but it is not the first time they have commited such a daredevil trick.
                                    I am glad to hear that your health is good and that of your company I supose you
                                    have smelt gun powder in a battle before this time, It may be that you have smelt it
                                    and felt it too I don't know whether you are on the list of the dead,
                                    wounded or living Mary says she will not write anny more untill she recieves
                                    letter—dated after the battle of Buena Vista, We have had several
                                    startling rumors here of a terible battle but we have at last got the truth I
                                    believe though we have not had the oficial account of it I think it may be relied
                                    upon that there has been a severe battle and that you have had a hand in the
                                    fandanggo. 
                              
                                 9 Colonel James H. Lane, no relation to General Lane,
                                            commanded the Third Indiana. Apparently Captain Gibson once helped him try
                                            to extend the regiment's service beyond the stipulated twelve month
                                            term: "On Sunday preceding the battle of Buena Vista …
                                            Colonel Lane … and the other field officers of his regiment were
                                            discussing some troubles that had arisen among them growing out of an effort
                                            on Colonel Lane, Adjutant Dally and Captain T. Ware Gibson to continue the
                                            Third Indiana in the service." Perry, Indiana in the
                                                Mexican War, 134.
                              
                                 10 Major John P. Gaines was one of the commanding
                                            officers of a large party of men from 
                                                Kentucky
                                             and 
                                                Arkansas
                                             forces, which was captured at La Encarnacion.
                           
                                     we need not have anny fears of the result of
                                    the battle as our boys were in it for I know some of them were bullys to fight, The
                                    first news we had of the battle was that Old Zach [General Zachary Taylor] was
                                    giving the Mexcans hell. Among the wounded as we got the list I am sorry to see was
                                    Capt. Sanderson of new allbany. It is to be hoped that our minds will soon be put at
                                    rest upon the matter I do not know whether it would make you laugh or cry to see how
                                    eagerly every bit of war news is sought after, but it is not surpriseing we take
                                    into considerati[on] the suposed great danger Gen. Taylor was in being surrounded
                                    with such a tremendeous Army of black-hearted Mexicans. I have seen Drumond
                                    [Sergeant James Drummond] & Shindal They look remarkably well. We are all
                                    well at hom[e] Delilah has not been expected to live from day to day for about two
                                    months, certanly the most singular case that ever was
                        There has been but one circumstance transpired in Chearlestown worth relating since
                                    you left and that is with regard to Lin and old gosh it seems that the old gentleman
                                    was determined to marry her anny how for a long time she refused all his
                                    solicitasion but at last after being encountered upon the street every day by the
                                    old fellow and his offering her all his property, money, and every thing els[e] a
                                    seat in a Lady's chair as long as she should live &c she concluded
                                    to acept his offers The preperations were all mad[e] he sent her mony to get her
                                    wedding doins with but within about two of three days of the time the fight should
                                    have been oh: she flew the track I am writeing on your desk and as I have a severe
                                    headache I shall leave the rest of this sheet for Mary if you knew how anxious we
                                    all are to hear from you, you would write every opportunity
                        
                                    Your's
                                    C. [
                                            Columbus
                                        ] Goodwin
                                
                        TW Gibson
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Apr 5th 1847
                                
                        Dearest Tommy
                        it has been so long since I have wrote to you I have most forgot how to write and
                                    what to say O Tommy I cannot tell you how bad I have felt for the last four or five
                                    weeks I had give up writeing and thought I would not write again untill I got a
                                    letter from you after the battle but 
                                        Columbus
                                     was writing and I thought I would try and say afew words as my spirits
                                    have been some what cher'd as your name was not on the 
                              on January 22, 1847, by General J. Y. Minon. The combined party under
                                            Gaines and a Major Borland stopped for the night during a rainstorm at La
                                            Encarnacion. They failed to post sentries around the hacienda and were
                                            compelled to surrender the next morning to Minon's forces which had
                                            surrounded the area while the Americans slept. Smith, The War
                                                with Mexico, I, 370-71. No source can be located which refers to
                                            the killing of these captives.
                           
                                     list we got of the kild and wounded but I am
                                    still affraid it is not correct we have nothing yet official O you cant think how
                                    anxious the friends of your company is to hear from you poor old Mrs Lane was hear
                                    this after noon we were all in hopes we would get letters this evening the mail came
                                    and oh not a single letter from any of you we hardly know how to wait till the next
                                    mail it is reported here that the Indiana troops shode themselves great cowards it
                                    is said they all run when the battle came on11 if you did I
                                    think a good many of you got shot in the back from the number of officers it seems
                                    was kild we all hate that most prodgeously we all would rather you had stood like
                                    good soldiers since you have gone there Dear Tommy we are all well to night Delilah
                                    is still alive and we have a little hopse she will recover Lin has plaid smash with
                                    old Drommond she stays with me at night but livs at Dr Hays well I must quit my penn
                                    is so bad I will write again this week if I get a letter from you so good night May
                                    God bless you and send you home
                        
                                    Mary Gibson
                                
                        TW Gibson
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  11 This is a reference to a common misunderstanding which persisted for
                        many years after the war. Only the Second Indiana Regiment retreated from the battle.
                        Gibson's company, part of the Third Regiment, was, in fact, one of the most important
                        and courageous in the battle. Initial reports from the battleground, however, gave the
                        impression that the entire Indiana detachment had been disgraced. As a result of the ensuing
                        confusion the conduct of the Indiana forces at Buena Vista was long a cause of bitterness and
                        anxiety among Hoosiers. The story of what happened that morning at Buena Vista is well
                        documented and detailed by Smith, Singletary, Perry, and other authors cited here. Briefly,
                        however, a group of raw volunteers—the Indiana Second Regiment—was placed
                        in an extremely vulnerable position, without support, at the outset of the battle. After
                        withstanding intense enemy fire for about half an hour, General Lane ordered the men to advance
                        in the hope of driving the Mexicans back. At the same time, however, Colonel William Bowles gave
                        an order to retreat, and the men soon did so in a confused flight. Smith, The War
                            with Mexico, I, 390. Many of them later regrouped and fought throughout the remainder
                        of the battle; some never returned to their positions.
            
         
         
         
            Conference on Indiana Architectural Preservation
            On November 7, 1968, Chancellor Herman B Wells, then Interim President of Indiana University,
                    appointed an Indiana University Committee on Historic Preservation. In so doing Chancellor Wells
                    indicated to the committee's members: "My purpose in establishing this committee
                    is to provide a means for discussion and recommendation of ways in which the University might take a
                    leadership role in identifying the problems of historic preservation in the State of Indiana and in
                    indicating how these problems could be met. For example, the committee might investigate ways of
                    assuring the development of historic buildings and areas, and of museums; and it might sponsor a
                    series of summer conferences, tours, and data collections."
            A Conference on Indiana Architectural Preservation will be held on the Indiana University campus at 
                        Bloomington
                     on September 18-20, 1969. This conference will focus its attention on
                    Indiana's varied and significant architectural heritage with consideration of how
                    structures representative of this heritage can be preserved. Particular attention will be given to
                    their restoration, maintenance, and use. Conference speakers will include representatives of the
                    National Trust for Historic Preservation, both state and federal government, the Historic Landmarks
                    Foundation of Indiana, the School of Architecture at Ball State University, and curators or
                    administrators of historic structures within Indiana. The conference will open at noon on September
                    18 and close on September 20 with a guided tour of historic structures in 
                        Monroe
                     and 
                        Owen counties
                    .
            Dr. 
                        Warren
                     Roberts of the Indiana University Department of Folklore is chairman for this initial
                    conference. The program has been planned in cooperation with representatives of the National Trust
                    for Historic Preservation, the Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, the Indiana Historical
                    Society, and the School of Architecture at Ball State University.
            Any individual desiring information about the program, lodging, and cost of the conference should
                    send his name and address (zip code included) to Dr. 
                        Warren
                     Roberts, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana 47401. Curators and other persons associated with or interested in the
                    preservation and maintenance of historic structures are especially invited to participate in the
                    conference. Moreover, officers of historical and other societies interested in any aspect of
                    historical preservation are also invited to attend as are persons generally who have such
                interests.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The First and Second 
                            United States
                         Empires: Governors and Territorial Government, 17841912. By Jack
                    Ericson Eblen. ([
                        Pittsburgh
                    ]: University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Press, 1968. Pp. viii, 344. Notes, tables, map, selected bibliography, index.
                    $8.95.)
            Since 1896 scholarship on 
                        United States
                     territorial government has been greatly handicapped by a tendency of writers to perform
                    research on a small aspect of the subject and then impatiently gallop off in pursuit of
                    comprehensive theories which explain the twin themes of colonialism and imperialism in American
                    history. Eblen's book is one of these, and it is as far in advance of the data as most of
                    its geopolitical predecessors.
            The author divides the territorial regime into four successive empires. It is necessary to do this,
                    you see, because imperialism explains almost everything. Imperialism was "a primary
                    determinant or cardinal feature of 
                        United States
                     history" from the start, so much so that 
                        Monroe
                     "proclaimed an hegemony over the entire Western Hemisphere" in 1823;
                    and today the Fourth Empire "encompasses much of the world" (pp. 1, 2, 9). All
                    this by way of introducing rustic government on the American frontier.
            The reviewer found himself recalling the original Hegemon of history, a literary man who made his
                    name at parody.
            The first two "Empires" (the word is always capitalized) are the primary subject of
                    this book: all the territories from the Old Northwest to 
                        Oklahoma
                    . Eblen's evaluation of the Northwest Ordinance of 1787 and its predecessors is
                    interesting, but leaves the same old questions unanswered—although he does not think so.
                    Most other aspects of the general subject are presented in summaries which can not be very
                    "new" because they necessarily rest heavily on the publications of others. For
                    that same reason a chronological imbalance ensues: the earliest period of territorial government is
                    fairly well covered, from the administrative point of view at any rate, but later territories get
                    only a widow's portion. As to the operational style of these many commonwealths,
                    Eblen's conclusion that they were oligarchies seems to cover equally well every government
                    on the globe since Adam. However, "oligarchy" is like
                    "Empire"—an abstruse concept that only experts can hope to comprehend.
            This is, in short, another enthusiastic book that should have soaked in the brine quite a while
                    longer. One would never know from Eblen's description, for instance, that the 
                        United States
                     had a Constitution during the formative age of territorial government. He cites the
                    reviewer's doctoral study of territorial public law, but only casually, and relies instead
                    on the deceitful work by Meyerholz written in 1908. Why? For statutory law he fearlessly employs Max
                    Farrand's woefully inadequate summary of 1896, while admitting its shortcomings in the
                    narrow fields which he has had cause to investigate personally. Again why? The temptation to get in
                    first  with a "general" book on territorial
                    government, one must suppose. Certainly there is need for a sound general book.
            Wise buyers will therefore look at the second part of Eblen's title instead of the first.
                    His analytical treatment of the governorship is fruitful, and so are the assessments of territorial
                    local government and the suffrage. He knows a lot about all three.
            Stanislaus State College, Turlock, Calif.
            J. W. Smurr
         
         
            
               Charles Ellet, Jr.: The Engineer as Individualist, 18101862. By Gene
                    D. Lewis. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1968. Pp. viii, 220. Notes, illustrations, appendix, index. $7.50.)
            Charles Ellet, Jr., one of the outstanding civil engineers in antebellum America, typifies the growth
                    of his profession in its formative years. This is true despite Ellet's extreme
                    individualism and his contempt for the "organization man." Indeed, it is the fact
                    that Ellet is so representative of the civil engineering profession (if not the civil
                    engineer's character) that gives this book its merit. Ellet was intimately involved with
                    major engineering projects during his lifetime, his work covering the entire spectrum of his
                    profession— canals, railroads, bridges, river improvements, flood control, military
                    engineering—and more. Ellet did pioneering work in the economics of transportation, and
                    he enjoyed a secondary career as a "controversialist."
            Ellet's chief claims to fame today rest upon his introduction of the wire suspension bridge
                    to America, including the initial bridging of the chasm at Niagara, and his advocacy of the
                    "steam ram" in naval warfare. Ellet's rams led the successful attack upon 
                        Memphis
                     in 1862, a battle in which Ellet himself suffered the Union's only fatal
                    wound. Professor Lewis also stresses the farsightedness of Ellet's comprehensive plan for
                    the prevention of flooding through various methods, including the use of dams and upland reservoirs.
                    Although ridiculed at the time, Ellet's ideas were eventually accepted, most notably in the 
                        Tennessee
                    
                    Valley Authority project.
            This book is a welcome addition to the small but growing body of literature on America's
                    early civil engineers and engineering. A remarkably thorough introduction to the internal
                    improvements movement in the 
                        United States
                     results from the study of Ellet's career; there emerges also a case study of
                    the stresses associated with the growing professionalism of the engineer. This is not to say Ellet
                    was the typical engineer; Lewis in fact properly emphasizes the singularity of Ellet's
                    personality and talent, which led the ambitious, impetuous, often dictatorial engineer to oppose the
                    institutionalization and bureaucratic procedures of corporate technology. The point remains,
                    nonetheless, that in Ellet one finds the mobility, the versatility, and the variety of functions
                    typical of the antebellum engineer.
            Lewis has written a good biography, solid if not brilliant. It is based upon Ellet's
                    numerous publications and the family letters preserved by a 
                    daughter whose belief in her father's greatness as an engineer has now been amply
                    demonstrated by Lewis. There is an occasional slip in grammar or documentation, and some additional
                    updating of the bibliography would have improved the book. Similarly, the single map, the choice of
                    illustrations, and the index bring small credit to author or publisher. But these faults, though
                    annoying, are minor. Lewis has developed his major themes carefully, has added significant detail to
                    the familiar outline of internal improvement development in America, and has contributed to a better
                    understanding of the continuing debate between waterway and railway advocates prior to the Civil
                    War.
            Indiana University, 
                        Indianapolis
                    
            
            Ralph D. Gray
         
         
            
               Free but Not Equal: The Midwest and the Negro during the Civil War. By V. Jacque
                    Voegeli. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1967. Pp. vii, 215. Notes, bibliographical essay, index. $5.95.)
            Despite such well known resident abolitionists and radicals as George W. Julian, Benjamin F. Wade,
                    and Owen Lovejoy, the Midwest at the beginning of the Civil War was a stronghold of white supremacy.
                    At the close of the conflict—after emancipation, enlistment of black troops, and the
                    Fourteenth Amendment—midwestern attitudes toward the Negro continued to be a
                    "blend of abstract eqalitarianism and pragmatic racism" (p. 180).
                    Voegeli's volume is an analysis of this seeming paradox.
            Although many midwesterners opposed slavery and its extension into the territories, Democrats
                    throughout the war fought against emancipation, use of Negro regiments, and even legal
                    manifestations of equality. Republicans, too, accepted these ideas reluctantly, if at all. Part of
                    their hesitancy was due to fear that such moves were politically inexpedient, but most midwestern
                    Republicans refused to support full equality for the Negro chiefly because "they did not
                    believe in it" (p. 178). Voegeli finds that there was little "unequivocal
                    commitment to racial equality" even among radicals; and he concludes that though the Civil
                    War may have tempered racism in the Midwest, it did not purge it (p. 182).
            Voegeli assesses Lincoln as the epitome of midwestern ambivalence toward the racial question. He
                    notes the President's moral, as well as practical, commitment to emancipation. But
                    Lincoln's advocacy of Negro colonization, his justification of the Emancipation
                    Proclamation as a war measure, and his plan to employ freed Negroes in the South in order to prevent
                    a northern hegira suggest that the "Great Emancipator," like many other
                    midwesterners, was more political pragmatist than moralist in his racial policies. Free
                        but Not Equal also reemphasizes the importance of race in midwestern attitudes toward the
                    war and the importance of the Midwest to Lincoln's presidential and political plans.
            
            The author presents his subject with proper scholarly detachment based on thorough and comprehensive
                    research. Yet his book lacks the forcefulness that selection of stronger quotations would have
                    provided. Midwestern editors, politicians, and private individuals—as revealed in the
                    sources consulted—were even more vehement and violent than Voegeli indicates. And the
                    racist transformation in the Midwest was perhaps even less pronounced. Many accepted emancipation
                    only because it was a fait accompli; given reactions to the Fifteenth Amendment a
                    few years later and continuing legal and educational restrictions, many accepted any measure of
                    equality not at all.
            Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    
            
            Lorna Lutes Sylvester
         
         
            
               Reconstructing the Union: Theory and Policy during the Civil War. By Herman
                    Belz. (
                        Ithaca
                    : Cornell University Press, for the American Historical Association, 1969. Pp. ix, 336.
                    Notes, bibliographical essay, index. $8.50.)
            Secession and Civil War produced strange new problems for the American people. The facts were
                    perfectly clear; the consequences were not. Eleven southern states had declared themselves out of
                    the Union, formed a new confederation, and created an army to defend it. A few northerners accepted
                    their actions, but the majority, including President Abraham Lincoln, held that the Union was
                    indivisible and secession impossible. The southern states were still in the Union. They would
                    ultimately resume their old status.
            Reconstruction, says Professor Belz, was thus a "problem of first magnitude" from
                    the very beginning of the Civil War. It would "of necessity follow" in broad
                    outline, "the principles of the preexisting constitutional system" (p. 2). So
                    since there were no constitutional precedents of any kind to deal with secession, the constitutional
                    history of the period has to do largely with a struggle between conflicting theories regarding war
                    aims, the present status of the southern people and their states, and the responsibility for
                    policies to be adopted.
            The conflict of theories over war aims arose at once and ranged from a simple restoration of the
                    Union as quickly as possible to complete military conquest and social reform. Demands varied with
                    persons, parties, and regions and grew in severity as the war dragged on. The necessity for holding
                    the border states, however, checked extremes; the recognition of the loyal Pierpoint government in 
                        Virginia
                     and the acceptance of military rule in conquered areas represented compromise. 
                        Virginia
                     was still in the Union; portions of the South were under the control of an army.
            When Congress met in regular session in December, 1861, it was clear to all that the Union would not
                    be quickly restored. Military reverses had intensified the bitterness against
                    "rebels," and the demand for punishment found expression in a series of bills and
                    debates which brought forth a new  theory regarding the southern
                    states. Belz calls it "Reconstruction as Territorialization." As developed by
                    James M. Ashley, chairman of the House Committee on Territories, the theory maintained that the
                    seceded states had "reverted to the status of territories and must be governed by
                    Congress" (p. 40). Charles Sumner added his state suicide theory; Congressman John Gurley,
                    his confiscation and antislavery ideas; and Senator Ira Harris, his more moderate bill for a genuine
                    interim government which would maintain peace and order until the citizens of the rebellious states
                    could "reorganize" loyal governments.
            The point is that Congress was developing theories and policies for reconstruction at the very time
                    that President Lincoln was himself organizing military governments in states where victory made it
                    possible. What came out of it, as Belz shows, was a growing struggle between Congress and the
                    executive, but with a drift towards the elimination of slavery on both sides.
            The struggle between the two developed by stages and climaxed in Lincoln's determined effort
                    to admit 
                        Louisiana
                     with his low 10 per cent loyalty requirement and in the passage by Congress of the
                    so-called Wade-Davis bill. Lincoln's death prevented a final showdown, but Belz believes
                    that with Lincoln's growing effort to include abolition of slavery in his demands that a
                    compromise would soon have been worked out. That, of course, lays the major responsibility for the
                    final outcome squarely on the shoulders of Andrew Johnson.
            This is a valuable and important book. It gives us for the first time a full account of the
                    congressional side of Reconstruction to be placed against the well known Lincoln part in that phase
                    of American history. The assumption that theory produced the policies in reconstruction, however, is
                    open to question. It ignores, to a large degree the matter of personalities, the great new economic
                    and political forces of an emerging new age, and the part which military victory and defeat played;
                    which is only suggesting that developments sometimes shaped the theories as well as the policies
                    adopted.
            The University of 
                  Chicago, Chicago
               
            
            Avery Craven
         
         
            
               The University of 
                            Illinois
                        , 18671894: An Intellectual and Cultural History. By Winton U.
                    Solberg. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1968. Pp. x, 494. Notes, illustrations, bibliography, index. $12.50.)
            In this book Winton U. Solberg, professor of history at the University of 
                        Illinois
                    , has produced a penetrating analysis of a quarter of a century of the development of
                    higher education in that state. The University of 
                        Illinois
                     entered its formative stages in one of the most important eras of American higher
                    education. This was the era when universities everywhere struggled to depart from the stultifying
                    traditions of the past. The university had been founded and organized under the terms of the Morrill
                    Land Grant Act; friends of the university acted no differently from those people who helped  to organize Cornell, 
                        Michigan
                     State, Purdue, or 
                        Kentucky
                    . All of them had their "great periods of conflict." Nevertheless John 
                        Milton
                     Gregory and his staff had the opportunity to make some fresh and imaginative beginnings
                    in the field of public university education. They, however, were shackled by their own philosophies,
                    by the deeply ingrained American educational tradition, and by the confused desires of a people who
                    demanded they be served within the context of a strong "Jacksonian" folk need for
                    advanced training.
            The author treats in four erudite chapters the tradition of university curricula and struggles, the
                    dreams and campaigning which looked to the future, and the sources of conflict which arose out of
                    practical politics and everyday life. Throughout this book there is a consciousness that the
                    projection of the central philosophy read into the Morrill Act was disruptive of the flow from the
                    past, and in many ways it clogged the approach to the future by its placement of emphases. Elements
                    of conflict in the application of this concept of educational needs were polarized about the
                    maintenance of the ancient liberal arts curriculum and the development of a curriculum for the new
                    applied sciences and vocational subjects. This conflict revealed itself in attitudes of presidents,
                    professors, board members, the public press, and most important of all, the people of 
                        Illinois
                    .
            Professor Solberg unfolds the story of the founding of the University of 
                        Illinois
                    , petal by petal. Basically there were the presidential administrations of John 
                        Milton
                     Gregory, Selim Hobart Peabody, and Thomas J. Burrill, interim president. Each of these
                    men left a personal impress on the institution. Burrill was, in many respects, the most impressive
                    of the three. Associated with these men were professors of widely varying capacities and
                    accomplishments. The same thing can be said about students. The latter fell under a smothering pall
                    of paternalism, and there was a constant tugging at this curtain of control to give the students a
                    breath of freedom and independence as human beings with maturing minds. In an epilogue the author
                    viewed the board of trustees with genuine skepticism. This body gave 
                        Illinois
                     little aggressive or progressive leadership. In fact more often than not it was a
                    public brake on the maturing of higher education in the state.
            This is a highly competent study which views the state university in the context of a
                    people's culture. The author has used generously the great mass of university records to
                    present a dependable account of a quarter of a century of an American public university against a
                    universal background of folk education. This age of public universities, not Solberg's
                    book, had both a tone of dullness and more than a coloration of excitement about it. All across
                    America there was almost a childish expectation that higher education would hasten realization of
                    the great American dream. The people of 
                        Illinois
                     were no exception.
            Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    
            
            Thomas D. Clark
         
         
         
            
               At Ease in Zion: Social History of Southern Baptists, 18651900. By
                    Rufus B. 
                        Spain
                    . (
                        Nashville
                    : Vanderbilt University Press, 1967. Pp. xiii, 247. Notes, bibliographic note,
                    bibliography, appendices, index. $6.95.)
            This is a book to make the blood run cold. The format is handsome and dignified; the content is
                    dynamite. In the hands of a reckless champion of Afro-American dissent, there are quotations here to
                    stoke a hundred riots. Whatever the risk, books like this one and Andrew E. Murray's Presbyterians and the Negro must find their place in black history courses.
                    Denominational church history is not a sufficient rubric for them.
            Professor 
                        Spain
                    's project is clear enough. He intends to delineate the most pressing social
                    problems of twelve southeastern states in the period 1865-1900. Then he intends to indicate what the
                    largest denomination of the Christian church in the South was saying and doing about these social
                    concerns. His major sources are the minutes of Southern Baptist conventions for the period and, more
                    notably, the weekly papers published for each of the twelve state conventions. From this mountain of
                    material he brings few new social issues. What he does bring is the kind of documentation which
                    makes some familiar issues stand out stark and jarring in their vividness.
            For example, there is the matter of race. 
                        Spain
                     rightly sees this as the social issue eclipsing all others and devotes the larger part
                    of his book to it. The racist quotations from Baptist papers are almost unbearable in retrospect. 
                        Spain
                     pours them into his text without mercy and yet without venom. He keeps demonstrating
                    with dreadful candor that the main body of Southern Baptists yielded to technical emancipation
                    without repudiating slavery, political secession, church schism, or notions of Negro inferiority.
                    The reader is pulled along by a kind of tragic necessity of event and argument so that it may be
                    said he "understands" the denominational stance on race. Yet the cultural and
                    ethical end of it looks like revolution and ruin.
            Southern Baptists found little they could say or do about the post war economic problems. For the
                    desperate farmers they recommended diversification of crops and prayer. Labor unions certainly did
                    not look safe; industrial paternalism seemed more dependable. There were some social issues which
                    could more safely engage the churches' energy: gambling, dancing, sabbath breaking, sexual
                    misbehavior. 
                        Spain
                     gives these the shorter space they deserve. In the midst of twenty-three pages of
                    description of the war on strong drink comes one of the rare typos in the book—a
                    reference to the "Baptish churches" (p. 185)!
            
               
                        Spain
                    's cited and quoted materials might have been better integrated. Somehow the
                    vitality of this great denomination needs to show through a bit more to relieve the bleak picture of
                    social ineffectiveness; it has produced its prophets and critics as well as saints. However, let the
                    sum of the critical judgment be clear. This is a timely and important book which conforms to good
                    scholarly standards but is very readable. It deserves wide use.
            University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Library, 
                        Philadelphia
                    
            
            L. C. Rudolph
         
         
         
            
               The Historical World of Frederick Jackson Turner, with Selections from His
                        Correspondence. Narrative by Wilbur R. Jacobs. (
                        New Haven
                    : Yale University Press, 1968. Pp. xxii, 289. Notes, illustrations, bibliographical
                    note, index. $10.00.)
            Selecting some 150 letters from 3,000 letters of Turner to his friends and colleagues of the academic
                    world, Jacobs seeks to present Turner as a humanist: an advocate of interdisciplinary education who
                    emphasized social and economic history and taught history by going to the sources. But by
                    concentrating on career events and the patronage and patronization of the professional
                    establishment, one can only be more impressed with Turner's narrowness and provincialism
                    rather than his human qualities. His wit contains the subtle vanity and mild egotism reserved for
                    one member of the Establishment to another.
            The main divisions of the book are: "Turner's Life and Affairs,"
                    "Turner's Educational Concerns," "Social History and
                    Politics," "Problems in Writing History," and "The Generous
                    Critic." Even though the editor acknowledges that Turner "is not one of the great
                    letter writers" (p. 251), it is disappointing that Turner's observations, at least
                    from a later viewpoint in time, seem so superficial. He fails to gauge the progressive impulse of
                    his generation, and he sees social forces merely as a problem of immigration. Somewhat amusingly, he
                    has the same xenophobia about Germans that had irked Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                    .
            This volume is most useful as an analysis of the objectives of the university, and especially
                    Turner's own concern over what he considered to be an exclusive dilemma: teacher versus
                    scholar and vice versa. There is no mistake that Turner thought of himself as a latter day
                    Socrates—as contrasted to the feverish publish or perish pace of his friend, Woodrow
                    Wilson (who is credited with swinging the department chairmanship at 
                        Wisconsin
                     to the young Turner). An attempt should have been made in this volume to reproduce some
                    of Turner's lecture notes or at least to comment on his classroom
                    "give-and-take." Especially it would be instructive to know Turner's
                    interpretations in his participation in The History of Liberty course at 
                        Harvard
                    ; without any information here and in the light of the correspondence in this volume, it
                    can only be assumed that he had no interest in the fundamental issues of freedom, other than a
                    frontier modification of H. B. Adams' "germ theory" and the Social
                    Darwinism of his day.
            Jacobs includes a bibliography of Turner's works and a fine critical essay of studies on the
                    Turner thesis. Turner himself mentions all the authors whom he considers indebted to him in a letter
                    to Constance Lindsay Skinner, who had given most favorable reviews to his books, and who intended to
                    use the material for an introduction to a book she was publishing.
            One of a trilogy on Turner, this book affords an excellent autobiographical reconstruction of the
                    life of a chief representative of the "ivory tower" in an Age of Innocence, who
                    delighted in the safely controversial but not the controversy.
            University of 
                  Richmond, Richmond
               , Va.
            Harry M. Ward
         
         
         
            
               Joseph L. Bristow: 
                            Kansas
                         Progressive. By A. Bower Sageser. (Lawrence: The University Press of 
                        Kansas
                    , 1968. Pp. 197. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $6.50.)
            Joseph L. Bristow, the son of an impoverished preacher and farmer, worked his way through college,
                    secured legal training, and bought part ownership in a 
                        Kansas
                     newspaper. He made his home in Salina, used his paper to win recognition, and began his
                    search for public office. Steadfastly Republican, he joined William Allen White in denouncing
                    Populists and Democrats and singing the praises of William McKinley. In the scramble for patronage
                    that followed the Republican victory, Bristow was named fourth assistant postmaster general. He was
                    scrupulously honest, extremely hardworking, and highly efficient. When scandals rocked the postal
                    department during the McKinley and Roosevelt administrations, Bristow won national prominence as a
                    reformer because he compiled the evidence which resulted in the indictment of highly placed
                    Republicans. President Roosevelt accepted his resignation after party pressure made Bristow a
                    liability. Roosevelt quieted critics by asking him to make a study for the Panama Canal Commission.
            Back in 
                        Kansas
                     in 1906—after almost ten years in 
                        Washington
                    —Bristow sought election to the 
                        United States
                     Senate and won the support of the Republicans who had enjoyed his past favors, shared
                    in the patronage, or were impressed with his record in the post office. He was elected in 1908 and
                    immediately identified himself with the Robert M. La Follette group of progressives. How and why he
                    made the transition from McKinleyite to progressive is unclear.
            In 1912 he supported La Follette's bid for the presidential nomination, reluctantly turned
                    to Roosevelt after La Follette's debacle, and even more reluctantly wore the Bull Moose
                    label. In the wake of Roosevelt's defeat, Bristow refused to cooperate with White, when the 
                        Emporia
                     editor tried to build a Progressive party in 
                        Kansas
                    . Caught between party regulars who resented his endorsement of Roosevelt and determined
                    progressives who felt that he had betrayed them, Bristow lost his bid for renomination.
            But, because he campaigned vigorously for the Republican slate, he was appointed to the 
                        Kansas
                     Public Utility Commission. Although Bristow planned to use the position only to keep in
                    the public eye until the next senatorial contest, his energy, experience, and efficiency improved
                    the agency. In 1918 he was soundly defeated in the party's senatorial primary. Shortly
                    thereafter, he retired from public life and from 
                        Kansas
                    , returned to a plantation in 
                        Virginia
                     which he had bought during his Senate days, and became a gentleman farmer and suburban
                    land developer.
            Bristow was as shallow as a saucer. He was honest, efficient, provincial, and free of visible
                    idealogical taint. He was a self-righteous moralist who defined his political opponents as immoral
                    and wrongheaded and conceived of himself as ethical and pragmatic. His progressivism was narrowly
                    political,  and it expanded only so long as he was associated
                    with men of greater vision. Sageser would probably dissent from so harsh a judgment, but the reader
                    of his book is inexorably driven to this conclusion.
            This is a tidy work about a tidy man. Bristow does not seem to have been especially significant, and
                    Sageser has done a good job of setting him in perspective.
            Martin Ridge
         
         
         
            Review Notices∗
            
            
               The Voters Make Tax Policy: A Review of the Operation of Local Finance Referenda.
                    By John S. Waggaman. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Commission on State Tax and Financing Policy, 1968. Pp. x, 32. Pamphlet,
                    free.) "This is a wide ranging attempt to come to grips with a first class policy question:
                    What will be the effects if Indiana authorizes the use of referenda to decide local finance
                    policy?" (p. vi). Relevant information and arguments are offered pro and con concerning
                    such referenda, but the author's conclusions concerning them are neither entirely favorable
                    nor unfavorable. He notes that through the years Indiana has generally made only limited use of
                    referenda for tax and other purposes by either state or local units of government. Waggaman,
                    however, is both inaccurate and misleading in his statement that "The inflexibility of
                    local government, and thus its inability to resolve local issues, is largely a product of
                    Indiana's 1851 constitution. Since cities or towns are not even mentioned in this
                    117-year-old document, it is not surprising to find urban governments are in such poor straits
                    today" (p. 1). At least three references to aspects of town government are included in
                    Sections 6, 8, and 9 of Article 6 of the Constitution of 1851, while the concluding section of
                    Article 10 has an item concerning both city and town government. (Moreover, an amendment, added in
                    1881, deals with municipal government.) Although the Constitution of 1851 is not infrequently blamed
                    for the poor straits of urban government today, the paucity of items in it regarding urban
                    government and its fundamental emphasis on general and uniform legislation, if wisely and
                    appropriately interpreted and followed, could be a boon to innovations in town and city government.
                    The inflexibility of county and township government as provided for by the Constitution of 1851, however, is a real bugaboo to merging local units of governments.
            
               Catalog of the Inland Rivers Library. Compiled by Clyde N.
                    Bowden. Foreword by Captain Frederick Way, Jr. (
                        Cincinnati
                    : Rare Book Room, Public Library of 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Hamilton County
                    , 1968. Pp. 156. Illustrations. Paperbound, $2.00.) This catalog of the
                        Inland Rivers Library of the Public Library of 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Hamilton County
                     describes a substantial and varied array of the library's books, pamphlets,
                    poems, songs, periodicals, maps, manuscripts, and photographs, as well as
                    "phonorecords." Although the library is particularly devoted to the collection of
                    items concerning the Ohio River, it also includes material about a number of
                    other rivers. For 
                  
                     ∗ Review notices are intended primarily to recognize a
                            variety of books and booklets concerning Indiana and the Middle West for which lack of
                            space, as well as their varying length and quality, makes it impossible to provide full
                            length reviews. Some items are included largely because they are reprints or new editions of
                            worthwhile publications; other items often are noted because their subject matter seems to
                            be of marginal value to the mainstream of Indiana or middle western history. Novels are
                            seldom noted unless they appear to have substantial historical significance. Unless
                            otherwise indicated, review notices are written by the editor. Limitations of time and space
                            frequently necessitate descriptive notices devoid of criticism or evaluation.
               
                     instance, items regarding the 
                        Wabash
                     and White rivers of Indiana are listed (pp. 128-29). Various editions of early guides
                    to Ohio River traffic, such as those of Zadok Cramer and Samuel Cumings,
                    constitute an important part of this smorgasbord collection. Many reports from this or that division
                    or department of the federal government are included which suggest the large role that the 
                        United States
                     government has had in making the 
                        Ohio
                     more a series of inland lakes than a river. Persons interested in knowing more about
                    the Inland Rivers Library should leaf through this catalog and also read the
                    historical commentary in the Foreward and Introduction.
            
               Mirror for Americans: Likeness of the Eastern Seaboard, 1810. By Ralph H. 
                        Brown
                    . Reprint. The American Scene: Comments and Commentators. Edited by
                    Wallace D. Farnham. (
                        New York
                    : Da Capo Press, 1968. Pp. xxxii, 312. Illustrations, maps, tables, notes, index.
                    $12.50.) This book reads as if it were written about 1810, whereas it was actually
                    initially published in 1943. 
                        Brown
                    , however, created a gentleman from 
                        Philadelphia
                    , whom he calls Thomas P. Keystone, and has him portray the Atlantic Seaboard as it was
                    in the early nineteenth century. Various chapters describe physical features, population, and the
                    varied economy of the Eastern Seaboard. 
                        Brown
                     also gives vivid accounts of what the American natural environment was like in the East
                    before it had been largely destroyed or mutiliated. Chapter 14 provides a valuable
                    "Selection of Titles from the Library of Thomas Pownall Keystone" (p. 248)
                    consisting of books, maps, and periodicals. Geographer Keystone (
                        Brown
                    ), seems to have been less well informed about the West than the East, for he has 
                        Ohio
                     entering the Union in 1802 rather than 1803.
            
               Cyrus Hall McCormick. By William T. Hutchinson. Volume I, Seed-Time,
                        1809-1856. Volume II, Harvest, 1856-1884. Reprint. The
                        American Scene: Comments and Commentators. Edited by Wallace D. Farnham. (
                        New York
                    : Da Capo Press, 1968. Pp. x, 493; viii, 793. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical
                    guide, index. $37.50, set.) Hutchinson's very comprehensive and detailed two
                    volume study of the life of Cyrus Hall McCormick first appeared in the 1930s. Though it emphasized
                    McCormick's role as the inventor of a reaper and its subsequent manufacture and
                    improvement, the work adds much about technological and other developments in agriculture during the
                    nineteenth century when it was the principal source of wealth in the 
                        United States
                    . McCormick was born in the Old Dominion State in 1809, but he settled early in 
                        Illinois
                    . These two volumes are significant for the very considerable attention which they give
                    to middle western agriculture.
            
               Reconstruction: The Ending of the Civil War. By Avery Craven. (
                        New York
                    : Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc., 1969. Pp. vi, 330. Notes, selected readings, index.
                    Paperbound, $3.95.) Craven has produced a sequel to his The Coming of the
                        Civil War. This study of Reconstruction by one of  the
                    senior and recognized scholars on the Civil War era is peppered with numerous evaluations of men and
                    events; it also includes annotated comments concerning books and articles which others have written
                    about the Reconstruction era. Although the book at hand is a paperback, it is a new work.
            
               Civil War Books: A Critical Bibliography. Volume II. Edited by Allan Nevins, James
                    I. Robertson, Jr., and Bell I. Wiley. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1969. Pp. ix, 326. Index. $11.50.) The now completed
                        Civil War Books: A Critical Bibliography, in two volumes, resulted from the
                    efforts of the 
                        United States
                     Civil War Centennial Commission. Together these volumes constitute both the most
                    current and the most comprehensive bibliography available regarding various aspects of the Civil
                    War. Its annotated comments, though not infallible, will be invaluable to students and scholars. The
                    critical evaluations in them are often terse and informative. For instance, William E. Parrish, in
                    noting Henry Beebee Carrington's Military Movements in Indiana in 1864
                    …, writes: "A corrective discourse that only compounds the factual
                    errors" (p. 145). This volume includes general works, biographical and autobiographical
                    materials, and political and economic areas. Also included is a cumulative index for both volumes.
            
               Hubbell: A Copper Country Village. By Donald Chaput. (Lansing: The author, 1969.
                    Pp. 103. Illustrations, notes, appendix, sources, personal name index. Paperbound,
                    $3.00.) Here is an informative and readable account of the origin and development of a
                    small copper town located on the Keweenaw Peninsula of 
                        Michigan
                    , which juts out from the southern shore of Lake Superior. Hubbell was the birthplace
                    (in 1933) of the author, Donald Chaput, who is editor of 
                  
                            Michigan
                         History. Chaput states in his Preface: "This is not intended to be a
                    history of the village of Hubbell. Instead, I have tried to re-create what life was like in the
                    village from its founding in 1885 to the time of the Great Depression. The book, then, is a series
                    of impressions about village life, rather than a village chronology." Though based upon
                    significant use of primary sources, this booklet is also much indebted to recollections of early
                    residents. Prospective authors seeking various ways in which the history of a small town can be
                    presented should study illustrated "minibooks" such as this one.
            
               Automobiles of America. By Automobile Manufacturers Association, Inc. (
                        Detroit
                    : 
                        Wayne
                     State University Press, 1968. Pp. 269. Illustrations, tables, index. Paperbound,
                    $2.50.) A revision and updating of an earlier publication, Automobiles of
                        America gives a popular and profusely illustrated account of the building and development
                    of automobiles in the 
                        United States
                    . Various Indiana items are noted, beginning with commentary about and a picture of 
                        Elwood
                     Haynes and his 1894 car (pp. 12-13).
            
            
               The Negro in America, 1619-1968. The Thirty-first Annual LaFollette Film Forum,
                    June 18-August 6, 1968. (
                        Muncie
                    : Department of History, Ball State University, 1968. Pp. 34. Notes. Pamphlet.) This
                    booklet includes the remarks of six members of the Ball State University faculty delivered in
                    connection with the university's thirty-first annual LaFollette Film Forum in the summer of
                    1968. These films and brief speeches concerned "The Negro in America, 1619-1968."
                    As Everett W. Ferrill, chairman of the Ball State University Department of History, indicates in the
                    Foreword, the series was originally established by the late Robert R. LaFollette, long time member
                    of the Ball State University history faculty, "to present information and raise questions
                    about controversial contemporary issues."
            
               Biography of a Town: 
                            Shelbyville
                        , Indiana, 1822-1962. By Marian McFadden. (
                        Shelbyville
                    : 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Press Inc., 1968. Pp. x, 342. Notes, illustrations, appendix, index.
                    $10.00.) The writing of a creditable and useful history of a county or town is an
                    unusually difficult task. Generally such histories have had severe limitations, but the variation in
                    value among them has been significant. Miss McFadden's "biography" of 
                        Shelbyville
                     is one of the best of them that this reviewer has seen in recent years. Three
                    characteristics especially set it apart from the mine run of local histories. First, it is much more
                    thoroughly grounded on research in important primary sources—county archival material in
                    particular—than normal. Second, Miss McFadden has clearly given much thought to a
                    critical review and evaluation of the evidence upon which her account is based. She is well aware
                    that the spoken or printed word—even when incorporated in previous histories—
                    is not always to be taken at face value. Third, this volume is substantially better organized and
                    written than most county and town histories have been. Though it is certainly not without blemish,
                    Miss McFadden, herself a native of 
                        Shelbyville
                    , has authored a very readable, interesting, informative, and valuable historical
                    account of 
                        Shelbyville
                     which merits a wide reading.
            
               Some Pathways in Twentieth-Century History: Essays in Honor of Reginald Charles
                    McGrane. Edited by Daniel R. Beaver. (
                        Detroit
                    : 
                        Wayne
                     State University Press, for the University of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , 1969. Pp. 313. Illustrations, selected bibliography of McGrane's works,
                    index. $11.95.) This book is a tribute to an unusual professor of history. Although the
                    late Reginald C. McGrane served for nearly a half century on the history faculty of the University
                    of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , including a period as its chairman, according to Editor Beaver, "He never
                    conducted a doctoral seminar at the University. He never had a student write a Ph.D. dissertation
                    under his direction" (p. 9). Moreover, McGrane "never had a sabbatical leave
                    …." (p. 32), and his teaching load was generally substantial and at times
                    embraced a variety of courses in both American and European history. Nevertheless, the biographical
                    and professional sketch of McGrane by Harry R. Stevens 
                    indicates that he was an extremely effective teacher of undergraduates—for most of his
                    many years of teaching he taught undergraduate engineering students. Stevens' sketch also
                    offers ample evidence that McGrane had a productive career in research which resulted in both
                    scholarly books and a number of articles, biographical sketches, and book reviews. The essays on a
                    variety of topics which constitute this Festschrift are written by historians who
                    had been undergraduate students of McGrane. Professor McGrane's unusual
                    and successful career as an historian is significant evidence that scholarly writing and effective
                    teaching of undergraduates can be combined and can be fruitful, if not extremely valuable, for both
                    the teacher and the student.
         
         
         
            Correction
            We regret that two lines were misplaced in "A Rural Indiana Weekly as Promoter: Editorials
                    from the Peru Gazette of 1839" edited by Walter R. Houf in the March,
                    1969, issue of the Indiana Magazine of History. Lines 30 and 31 on page 45 should
                    be lines 26 and 27 on page 46. The sentences in question should read: page 45, beginning at line 29,
                    "… for more than likely if the community prospered, the newspaper
                    prospered." and page 46, beginning at line 25, "Lasting white settlement in the
                    county had probably begun about 1827, but 
                        Miami County
                     was not officially organized until 1834. Miamisport, the first town in the county, was
                    laid out in 1829."
         
         
            History Teachers Association Annual Conference
            The annual conference of the History Teachers Association will be July 12, 1969, at the Center for
                    Continuing Education, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana.
            The conference theme is Afro-American History. There will be lectures and discussions relating
                    Afro-American history to the classroom, the curriculum, current scholarship, textbooks, and teaching
                    methods.
            Speakers include John D. Gearon, social studies consultant of the 
                        Chicago
                     Public Schools; Professor Arvarh Strickland, 
                        Chicago
                     State College; and Albert N. Logan, Bureau of Human Relations, 
                        Chicago
                     Public Schools.
            The conference will feature book and audio-visual exhibits and will provide bibliographies and course
                    outlines for those in attendance.
            Further information can be obtained from
            Robert B. Clements
            Secretary-Treasurer, History Teachers Association 623 Park Avenue 
                        South Bend
                    , Indiana 46616.
         
      
   
