
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 036, Issue 1, pages 1-92. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:036+issue:1+year:1940&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            David Dale Owen and Indiana's First Geological Survey
            WALTER B. HENDRICKSON
            In the eighteen-thirties, Indiana, as well as other western states, was feeling growing pains. The
                    elevation of Andrew Jackson to the presidency had made westerners feel that their importance to the
                    nation was at last recognized. A combination of circumstances had caused a business boom that was
                    quickening the economic life of all the western states. By 1834, new settlers by the tens of
                    thousands were pouring into the regions of the 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley, creating farms and building towns. The people of the West could see a glorious
                    future; the people were coming, the land was rich, and other natural resources were at hand. All
                    that was needed was time and money to realize on what were considered the essential elements of all
                    great and prosperous states.
            The decade of the eighteen-thirties was one of great and enthusiastic promotion of farming, mining
                    and transportation facilities. In order that a state might take its place in the sun, the first move
                    to be made was the creation of adequate systems of communication to bridge the gap between producer
                    and consumer—getting the products of western farms to eastern markets. Accordingly, state
                    legislatures appropriated large sums of money for the building of canals and roads, and, with great
                    energy, ditches were dug, forests were cut down, and streams were dredged in order to make new
                    highways of commerce.
            Along with this great internal improvement movement, and in some ways contradictory to it, was a
                    movement in the western states to develop their own resources, so that they would be independent of
                    the East for mineral products.  If westerners could supply their
                    own needs for such things as iron and coal, the money that went to the East would be spent at home,
                    thus increasing local wealth. The needs of the growing cities would be met by locating and utilizing
                    local deposits of building stone, potters' clay, and sand and gravel. The immediate capital
                    to develop these natural resources could be supplied by eastern capitalists, who should, it was
                    believed, jump at the opportunity of making profitable investments as soon as they were informed of
                    the fact that the west contained potential wealth in its rocks and soils. This point of view was
                    well expressed by the report of the state senate committee on education, when the matter of creating
                    a geological survey came before the legislature in 1836: 
                        Indiana is just launching into a general system of internal improve- ments, which if properly
                            prosecuted must shortly give her an elevated rank in the Union. Her local position is a
                            proud one—her outlines such as to secure for her, under wise legislation, and at
                            no distant day, a decided prominence as an independent state. We are about to expend
                            millions in the construction of canals, railroads, turnpikes, etc… Connected with
                            this, it occurs to your committee that an accurate examination of the geology of the country
                            is absolutely necessary to the successful prosecution of our public works. Such an
                            examination would impart life and vigor to the plan—indeed without it, we should
                            labor under a thousand difficulties, which such a survey would diminish, if not remove. The
                            peculiar character of the country and soil on the various routes selected for improvement,
                            "the presence of valuable ores, with the localities and extent of quarries, and of
                            coal and lime formations, objects of inquiry so essential to internal improvements, and the
                            advantage of domestic prosperity, would be discovered, and the possession and advantages of
                            them given to the public … ."1
                  
                    The result of this line of reasoning was that there was a sudden awareness of the necessity
                    for trained men to discover and to locate the mineral wealth of the western states, and thus it was
                    that scientists, especially the geologists, took on a new importance in the eyes of progressive
                    westerners.
            Indiana was certainly one of the most active states in this movement for exploring natural resources.
                    The first state geological surveys had been in the East, where the importance of geology had long
                    been stressed by pioneer teachers of the science in eastern universities. As a result of this
                    agitation, 
                        Massachusetts
                     created the first state survey in 1830, 
                        Tennessee
                     in 1831, and 
                        Maryland
                     and 
                        New Jersey
                     in 
                  
                     1
                            Indiana Bow. Journal, sas. of 1935-1836. 268.
               
                     1833. 
                  Maine,
                            Ohio
                and 
                        New York
                     instituted surveys in 1836. Thus, prior to 1837, only two western states, 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    , had authorized geological surveys.2
            
            The first official notice of the need for a geological survey in Indiana was in 1830. At this time, a
                    resolution was passed in the state senate providing that the committee on education should
                    investigate the feasibility of appointing a professor of geology and mineralogy at the state college
                    at 
                        Bloomington
                    , who would devote a part of his time to the making of a "thorough geological
                    examination of our state … and report all the useful discoveries for the practical
                    benefit of the country."3 The committee reported that the funds of the
                    college were insufficient for such purposes, and there the matter of a geological survey rested
                    until 1835.4
            
            In that year, Governor Noah Noble, in his message to the legislature in December, asserted that he
                    had become aware of the desirability of a geological and topographical survey of the state, when he
                    had talked to a gentleman who had found indications of coal in the neighborhood of the National
                    Road. Governor Noble urged that the need for a correct map of the state, and the desirability of
                    information about the natural resources of the state, could very well be met by appointing an agent.
                    He especially urged that the mineral deposits be investigated, saying that "without the aid
                    and application of geological science," those deposits would never be developed.5
            
            But this was a new venture for the legislature to consider, and the members evidently doubted the
                    ability of the state to carry it through alone. A joint resolution of the two houses provided that
                    the governor should correspond with the governors of 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                    , to learn whether those states would be willing to coöperate with Indiana in
                    a joint survey of the three states. Further, Governor Noble was directed to consult with
                    "one or more eminent geologists in the TJnited States in regard to the
                        subject."6
            
            Governor Noble himself was entirely convinced of the necessity and desirability of the geological
                    survey, and he 
                  
                     2 George Perkins Merrill, One Hundred Years of American
                                Geology (
                                New Haven
                            . 1924). 127-208, passim; G. P. Merrill, ed. and comp., Contributions to a History of American State Geological and Natural History Surveys (
                                Washington
                            , 1920), Bulletin 109, 
                                United States
                             National Museum, 637-686.
                  
                     3
                            Indiana Senate Journal. Seas. of 1830-1831, 87.
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., 110.
                  
                     5
                            Indiana Senate Journal, Seas of 1825-1835, 25.
                  
                     6
                            Laws of Indiana, Seas. of 1835-1836, Local Laws, 393.
               
                     carried out the terms of the resolution with energy. He could not
                    secure the coöperation of 
                        Ohio
                    , probably because there was already a movement on foot to provide for a separate survey
                    of that state. The governor of 
                        Kentucky
                     never answered his letter.7 As an "eminent
                    geologist," the governor selected George W. Featherstonhaugh, the Geologist of the 
                        United States
                    .8 In reply to the governor's letter, Featherstonhaugh said
                    that it would be possible for a superficial examination, which would be of value to the state, to be
                    made in one year, by one man, and at comparatively small expense, but added that he knew of only one
                    man who could make the survey, and he was in Europe.9 In his message
                    communicating the results of his investigations, Governor Noble urged the legislature to proceed to
                    authorize a geological survey for Indiana without waiting for 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                    , because he was satisfied that, 
                        In this state we have external indications of large beds of coal and other mineral deposits,
                            but for want of the test of science, their extent and value are unknown … [and I
                            am] satisfied that these resources, properly developed, will give employment to thousands,
                            subserve the purposes of commerce, contribute to the support of our public works, and add
                            greatly to the wealth of our citizens and the State… 10
                  
                    
            
            In response to the words of the Governor, the Legislature passed an act providing for the creation of
                    a geological survey. This act authorized the governor to appoint annually a person of
                    "talents, integrity, and suitable scientific acquirements as geologist for the State of
                    Indiana. "The compensation was to be $1,500 a year, with provision for expenses,
                    not to exceed $250. The geologist was to make a "complete and minute"
                    survey, first of the regions in the neighborhood of contemplated public works, and then in other
                    portions of the state. He was to prepare a "detailed account of all remarkable discoveries
                    made, and the progress of the work," and lay it before the legislature annually. The
                    geologist was also to analyze any mineral substance at the request of any citizen of the state, in
                    the time of the year when he was not 
                  
                     7
                            Indiana House Journal, Seas. of 1836-37, 26.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid, Featherstonhaugh had been appointed 
                                United States
                             Geologist by Congress in 1834, and had been assigned to make a survey of the
                            territory west of the 
                                Mississippi
                            . between the Red and 
                                Missouri
                             rivers. See G. W. Featherstonhaugh. Geological Report of an
                                examination made in 1934 of the elevated country between the 
                                    Missouri
                                 and Red rivers (
                                Washington
                            , 1836).
                  
                     9 Featherstonhaugh to Governor Noble, 
                                Washington
                            , Oct. 17. 1836, Noble Papers, Indiana State Library. There is no hint as to who
                            was the man to whom Feather stonhaugh referred, but it is possible that It was Dr. John
                            Locke, a competent scientist of 
                                Cincinnati
                            .
                  
                     10
                            Dichotic' House Journal, Seas, of 1836-1877. 26.
               
                     actively engaged in the field. Finally, it was provided that the
                    act should continue in force for only one year, unless re-enacted by the legislature.11 Thus was Indiana's first geological survey established.
            The governor proceeded to appoint a man of "talents, integrity, and suitable scientific
                    acquirements." This man was David Dale Owen, and it is quite probable that the Governor had
                    him in mind for the office even before the passage of the act. Noble had often visited in 
                        New Harmony
                    , and was at least well acquainted with David Dale's brother, Robert Dale, who
                    was rapidly becoming a leader in the councils of the Jackson party in the state.12 The Governor thought so highly of Robert Dale and his sister Jane, that he had sent his
                    daughters to live in the latter's home, where they received instruction in music.13 On some of his visits to 
                        New Harmony
                    , the governor must have become acquainted with Robert Dale's younger brother.
            David Dale was an earnest young man, who had equipped a remarkable laboratory and museum in 
                        New Harmony
                    , and, since his school days, had been interested in science. He had received an
                    excellent European education, including three years at Hofwyl, a famous Swiss school, a year at 
                        Glasgow
                     under a noted professor of chemistry, and, finally, another year at 
                        London
                     University, where he listened to the foremost scientists of the time. He returned to 
                        New Harmony
                     with Robert Dale Owen in 1833, and made his home there. In 1835-37, he was in
                    attendance at the Medical College of 
                        Ohio
                    , in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . There he studied chemistry and anatomy in order that he might become proficient in all
                    branches of the science of geology. He had made up his mind that this newest of sciences was the
                    most interesting. In 1836, he had accompanied his friend, Gerard Troost, on a survey in the
                    mountains of eastern 
                        Tennessee
                    . David Dale Owen, though but twenty-seven years old when Governor Noble appointed him,
                    was entirely competent to become state geologist 14
            
            It seems highly probable that Governor Noble had talked with Owen about the possibility of
                    instituting a state geological 
                  
                     11
                            Lams of Indiana, Seas. of 1836-1837, General Laws. 108-109. Under the
                            first state constitution of Indiana (1816-1852). the general assembly met annually.
                  
                     12 R. D. Owen to Nash Noble, Nov. 12, 1836, Noble Papers, Indiana
                            State Library.
                  
                     13
                            Idem.
                  
                     14 Manuscript Autobiography, D. D. Owen Papers. These papers are in
                            the possession of David Dale's granddaughter. Mrs. Caroline Dale Snedeker, and are
                            keptat her home on Nantucket Island.
               
                     survey, because it was known in 
                        New Harmony
                     as early as October of 1836, before the legislature met, that there was a movement on
                    foot for a survey, and that David Dale Owen would probably secure the position of state
                        geologist.15 It seems improbable that Owen himself did not know of it, and
                    perhaps the voluntary service on the 
                        Tennessee
                     survey was a specific preparation for the Indiana survey.
            Whatever behind-the-scenes moves actually took place, the first official notice that David Dale Owen
                    received of his appointment came when his commission arrived from the Secretary of State, and that
                    was dated March 31, 1837.16 Owen assumed his duties immediately, and this fact
                    lends weight to the opinion that he had been long expecting the appointment, and already had his
                    plans of operation well worked out.
            As Owen saw the problem, the first object was to "gain a correct and connected idea of the
                    whole, before spending much time in detailed examination of any particular spot."17 With this object in mind, the geologist left 
                        New Harmony
                     in April of 1837, followed the 
                        Wabash
                     river to its junction with the 
                        Ohio
                     river, and then traveled up that river, through all its meanderings, to the
                    southeastern corner of the state, in 
                        Dearborn county
                    ."18 His purpose in doing so was to determine the
                    succession of the underlying strata, which he could do by observing the exposed rocks in the bluffs
                    of the river. He was thus able to gain a good idea of the geological formations all along the
                    southern boundary of the state. With this knowledge, he was ready to go into the interior of the
                    state, and determine just how far the various formations that he had observed along the 
                        Ohio
                     extended. For this purpose, he proceeded to run zig-zag lines, so that he would cover
                    the whole of the southern and central parts of the state. He ran the first line from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , through 
                        Ripley
                     county to 
                        Madison
                    . Then he turned northward, and followed the route of the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroad, construction on which had been begun in 1836. He took advantage of the 
                  
                     15 Alexander Maclure to William Maclure. 
                                New Harmony
                            , Oct. 18, 1836, Maclure Papers, Working Men's Institute Library, 
                                New Harmony
                            , Ind.
                  
                     16 Record of Commissions, 1837-1846, Mss. In the office of the
                            Secretary of State of Indiana.
                  
                     17 David Dale Owen, Report of a Geological Reconnoissance
                                of the State of Indiana; made in the year 1837 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1838). 10. Hereafter cited as First Indiana Report.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid.
               
                     two deep cuts, which were being made in the hills back of 
                        Madison
                    , to study the formations thus exposed.19
            
            From 
                        Columbus
                    , he turned westward, proceeded to make a circle through the counties of the central
                    hill region of the southern portion of the state, and then returned again to 
                        Columbus
                    . He now proceeded to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , continuing his investigations along the route of the M. & I. Railroad. Leaving 
                        Indianapolis
                    , he followed the National Road to 
                        Greenfield
                    , turned southeastward, and made a circle through 
                        Brookville
                    , returning to 
                        Indianapolis
                     through 
                        Greensburg
                     and 
                        Shelbyville
                    . Besides, there was a line established to the westward, from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Terre Haute
                    . There Owen turned south and followed the 
                        Wabash
                     to 
                        New Harmony
                    .20
            
            In the fall of 1837, he continued his plans of making zigzag lines, covering the interior counties of
                    southern Indiana, which he had not visited in the spring. Then, heading north, he followed the 
                        Wabash
                     river to 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Logansport
                    , where he picked up the route of the 
                        Michigan
                     Road, and followed it through 
                        South Bend
                     and on to 
                        Michigan
                     City. Leaving 
                        Michigan
                     City, he went back to 
                        South Bend
                     and on to 
                        Elkhart
                    . Here he met with an accident, the details of which are not known. He had planned to go
                    on to Ft. 
                        Wayne
                    , and then to 
                        Logansport
                     again, but instead he returned directly to the latter town, and followed the north bank
                    of the 
                        Wabash
                     back to 
                        Lafayette
                    . From here he made his way back to New Harmony by way of 
                  Crawfordsville, Spencer
                and 
                        Princeton
                    .21 Altogether, in the course of the first year of the survey, Owen
                    traveled a thousand miles, all of it on horseback. When one considers the difficulties of travel in
                    Indiana in the thirties, and the fact that many stops and side excursions must necessarily have been
                    made, this was a remarkable exhibition of endurance of hard work amidst hardships.
            One of Owen's principal tasks was the delineation of the extent of the coal area of Indiana.
                    He determined that the eastern boundary was a line running from Oil Creek, in 
                        Perry County
                    , north to a little west of a line through Paoli, 
                        Bedford
                     and 
                        Bloomington
                    , where it swung to the west, and crossed the National Road near Putnamville.22 Owen pointed out 
                  
                     19 "Ibid.: C. G. Sappington, "The 
                                Madison
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                             Railroad," Indiana Magazine of History (Sept., 1916,
                            XII, 237. 238.
                  
                     20 First Indiana Report, 10.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., 13.
               
                     that the eastern boundary of the coal field was only partly in
                    Indiana, that it swung down into 
                        Kentucky
                     as far as Bowling Green, where it swung back to the west, and crossed the 
                        Ohio
                     again at 
                        Golconda
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    . He hazarded the opinion that the Indiana coal field was but a part of a great central
                    coal field that extended into 
                        Illinois
                    , and was in the form of a great basin, similar to coal fields of Europe.
                        Investigations by succeeding geologists have made little change in the eastern boundary of
                    the coal basin, and have upheld Owen's theory of a great central coal field.23
            
            Not only did Owen point out to the citizens of the state the area in which they might expect to find
                    coal, but he showed them a means whereby they could determine whether or not they had dug deep
                    enough to find it. He adopted a discovery of Dr. Troost's that no coal could be found below
                    a limestone which contained a particular fossil. Once a coal miner found himself in the midst of
                    this limestone, he would know that it was useless to dig deeper.24 In discussing
                    coal mining, Owen took the opportunity to point out the importance of consulting a geologist before
                    any mining was done, so that a scientific opinion could be given on the chances of finding coal in a
                    particular spot. He told the story of a 
                        Maryland
                     landowner who observed lignite scattered over the surface of his fields, and knowing it
                    to be imperfect coal, he immediately presumed that solid coal would be found below the surface. He
                    hired an experienced miner from 
                        England
                    , and invested $20,000 in sinking a shaft for a mine. Over the protests of a
                    scientist of the neighborhood, who was aware of the character of the underlying formations, the
                    landowner continued operations, and, of course, was disappointed in finding no coal,25
            
            Owen also had a word of warning for those residents of southern Indiana who mistook a black,
                    bituminous shale which was found along the 
                        Ohio
                     river for coal, just because it would burn. In the first place, Owen pointed out that,
                    geologically, the shale was below the Archimedes limestone, and so could not possibly be coal; in
                    the second place, the only reason that it burned was because of its high sulphur and bitumin
                        content.26 In both of these stories, Owen was intent 
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., note, 17.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., 13. This particular fossil was called Archimedes
                            because of its screw-like shape.
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., 4-5.
                  
                     26 Ibid., 15.
               
                     on making the point that science, geology and chemistry, at
                    least, had more than an abstract and theoretical value, and could be practically useful in an
                    economic way. His whole viewpoint on the purposes of the state geological survey was clearly stated
                    by him: 
                        I have considered it my duty, while surveying a country as new as ours, to remember that a
                            state just settling, is like a young man just starting out in life, whom it behooves to
                            secure for himself a competency, before he indulges in unproductive fancies. I have
                            considered it the most important object to search out the hidden resources of the state, and
                            open new fields of enterprize to her citizens. That object effected, time enough will remain
                            to institute inquiries (which a liberal policy forbids us to overlook) of a less productive
                            and abstract character; inquiries which are interesting in a scientific, rather than a
                            commercial point of view.27
                  
                    
            
            Because of this attitude, Owen did not spend a great deal of time investigating the coal measures of
                    Indiana, probably because, at that time, coal was not as economically important as it was later to
                    become, since there remained much uncuttimber to serve the people as fuel both for home use and for
                        manufacturing.28 What seemed of more importance to Owen was the location and
                    extent of possible sources of iron ore. He said that 
                        when there was any possibility of discovering a valuable deposit of iron, I instituted a more
                            particular investigation in such localities: believing that a good iron bank is of more
                            intrinsic value to the State than a mine of gold or silver.29
                  
                    He was no doubt disappointed, because he found no very large deposits of ore, but he was
                    able to locate sizable quantities of brown oxide of iron, which, although not the best ore, would
                    justify the establishment of smelters.30
            
            The other principal resource of Indiana which Owen investigated at some length was building stone.
                    Although he appreciated the fact that oölitic limestone was to be found in great
                    quantities, he does not seem to have recognized the potentialities of the greatest limestone region
                    of the state. Most of his discussion of building stone was devoted to the quarries of southern and
                    southeastern Indiana, where he found good fossiliferous limestone.31
            
            
               
                  27
                        Ibid., 4-5.
               
                  28 G. M. Levette, "Fuel Values of Coal," Indiana
                        Department of Geology and Natural Resources. 13 Annual Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1833), 11.
               
                  29
                        First Indiana Report, 21.
               
                  30
                        Ibid., 22, 25.
               
                  31
                        Ibid., 16, 18, 26, 28.
            
            
            The field work of the survey occupied Owen through the summer and autumn of 1837. During that time,
                    he was almost constantly away from home, meeting new people, and visiting all points of geological
                    interest. After the completion of the fall trip to the northern part of the state, Owen prepared a
                    report of his work to submit to the legislature. This report was published in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In December, 1837, he went to the capital to read proofs and to visit the members of
                    the legislature in the interests of having the survey renewed for another year. The trip from 
                        New Harmony
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                     occupied six days, and was made on horseback. Being winter time, Owen encountered cold
                    weather, bad roads and high water. On his arrival in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , he found difficulty in securing lodging, since one of the principal taverns had closed
                    its doors. Finally he found a "snug little room to myself with a little open stove, and
                    just room to turn between the table and the bed."32
            
            The legislators were much interested in geology, and several of them asked Owen to lecture on the
                    subject. These invitations were made official by a resolution of the house of representatives,
                    offering to put the hall of the house at his disposal for as many evenings as he might desire to
                        lecture.33 Owen borrowed some apparatus from a local doctor, and delivered
                    his lectures, as he himself reported, "with greater facility than I expected."34 His visit must have had a favorable effect on the legislature, because, in
                    spite of an effort on the part of the senate to repeal the act of 1837, the survey was continued for
                    another year, and Owen was duly re-appointed as state geologist on March 10, 1838.35
            
            During the spring and fall of the second year of the survey, field investigations were continued.
                    Having already made a general reconnaissance, he now devoted his time to a more detailed
                    investigation of geological formations and mineral resources. Instead of considering the extent of
                    formations, and running lines to determine their limits, he visited individual counties, and made
                    separate reports in regard to their geology and natural resources. He again traveled 
                  
                     32 D. D. Owen to Mrs. D. D. Owen. 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Dec. 14 [1837?], D. D. Owen Papers.
                  
                     33
                            Indiana Howe Journal, Sees. of 1837-1838, 93.
                  
                     34 D. D. Owen to Mrs. D. D. Owen, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Dec. 14, [1887?], D. D. Owen Papers.
                  
                     35
                            Indiana Scnite Journal. Sess. of 1837-1838, 580, Indiana
                                House Journal, Sess. of 1837-38, 439; Record of Commissions. 1837-1845, Mss. in
                            office of Secretary of State of Indiana.
               
                     through the counties of the southern part of the state, and then
                    through a few of the northern counties.36 He composed for himself a series of
                    questions to be answered by investigation. He wanted to find out the best methods for mining coal;
                    to find out if Indiana possessed lead ore in any quantity; to discover where the best building stone
                    could be found; to learn what were the possibilities of finding salt springs. He was also interested
                    in solving some questions of a purely scientific character, chiefly, in what way did the geological
                    formations and deposits of Indiana agree with, and in what way did they differ from those of
                    neighboring states.37
            
            Owen sought the answers to these questions by investigating numerous bluffs of water courses, the
                    walls of wells, sheer sides of hills, caves, excavations for roads and canals. In fact, he studied
                    any place where he could get a glimpse of the rock formations. He located workable seams of coal,
                    sources of salt from springs, beds of clay and shale suitable for pottery and brick making, deposits
                    of iron ore, and outcrops of sandstone and limestone. He was particularly impressed by the
                    possibilities of developing iron manufacture in the central western part of the state in 
                        Vermillion
                    , Parke and 
                        Fountain
                     counties. Here Owen found the essential elements for iron manufacture: coal, limestone,
                    timber and ironore. He predicted that this area of the state would become the center of a large and
                    important iron smelting industry.38 Further, he prophesied that, since the whole
                    of the coal area of the state was also the best mineral region of the state, it would eventually be
                    the seat of manufacturing and industry.39 These predictions were fulfilled to a
                    degree for a period. That is, until the development of the Mesabi iron ore fields, and the change
                    from river to rail transportation, much of Indiana's industry did center around 
                        Terre Haute
                    .40
            
            In the interests of comparing Indiana geology with that of other states, Owen made a trip into the
                    salt producing area of 
                        Virginia
                     (now 
                        West Virginia
                    ), in the neighborhood of the Kanawha river. His purpose was to discover if there was a
                    possibility of locating good brine springs and wells in 
                  
                     36 David Dale Owen, Second Report of a Geological Survey
                                of the State of Indiana made in the year 1838 (lndlanapolis, 1839), 3. Hereafter
                            cited as Second Indiana Report.
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., 4.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., 22-27.
                  
                     39
                            First Indiana Report, 26.
                  
                     40 W. S. Blatchley. "A Century of Geology in
                            Indiana." Indiana Academy of Science. Proceedings (1916). 102-103.
               
                     Indiana. Since there had been but few deep borings in Indiana,
                    the best way of determining whether there were possibilities of securing a productive source of
                    salt, was to compare the geologic formations of Indiana with those of a territory where salt was
                    secured in quantity. The regions about the valleys of the Kanawha and Muskingum rivers on either
                    side of the 
                        Ohio
                     were selected by Owen, because they were on the margin of coal producing regions, as
                    well as of brine springs, and so approximated central Indiana in geology.41 Owen
                    realized that Indiana had always been handicapped in her development of the meat-packing industry by
                    a lack of local sources for salt manufacture. It had been necessary to import most of the salt used
                    from eastern 
                        Kentucky
                     and western 
                        Virginia
                    , or from 
                        New Orleans
                    . The best salt came from 
                        New Orleans
                    , and of course entailed a heavy shipping charge, even after steamboats made upstream
                    freighting possible.42 Owen concluded from his investigations that, since there
                    was salt in western 
                        Virginia
                    , there would be salt in Indiana, because the character of the geological formations of
                    the two regions was very similar, and he declared that salt water would be found in the
                    south-central area of Indiana, which was on the border of the coal region.43
            
            Owen did other work in comparing the geology of 'Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                    , and laid the foundation for his later work in defining the succession of geological
                    formations for the entire northern 
                        Mississippi
                     region including the 
                        Ohio
                     valley. Because of its technicalities, this part of his report will not be considered.
                    Suffice it to say that Owen became the foremost western geologist, and present day geologists have
                    verified the general accuracy of his work.
            Owen never completed his task of surveying Indiana, although, at the time of his death, in 1860, he
                    was again engaged, as state geologist, in directing a detailed and thorough study of
                    Indiana's geology. In spite of a strong plea by Governor David Wallace to the legislature,
                    during the session of 1838-39, that the survey be continued,44 the state senate
                    did not take any action on his recommendation, while the house 
                  
                     41
                            Second Indians Report, 17.
                  
                     42 Frances Eugene Andrews, The Early Salt Industry
                            … . (A.M. Thesis. Ms., Indiana University Library), 1-18.
                  
                     43
                            Second Indiana Report, 32-36.
                  
                     44
                            Indiana Doeunentary Journal, Seas, of 1838-1839, 19.
               
                     tabled a bill for the continuation of the survey.45 The failure of the legislature to act in the matter of renewal, of course did not mean
                    that Owen immediately ceased work on the survey, because he continued to carry on his activities
                    under the act of 1838 which did not expire for a year. He was recommissioned as state geologist on
                    June 7, 1839.46 In the session of 1839-1840, Governor Wallace again urged the
                    legislature to re-establish a geological survey, and again the legislature refused to take action,
                    although the house committee on agriculture made a favorable report for the revival of the
                        survey.47 Apparently, the survey was not authorized because of the fact that
                    the country was in state of business depression, and the legislators wanted to keep the tax burden
                    as low as possible. Besides, the great internal improvement scheme, which Indiana had inaugurated in
                    1836, was costing far more than had been anticipated, and the legislators refused to spend money on
                    what must have seemed to many of them as a frivolous and unimportant use of state funds.48
            
            The results of Owen's survey of Indiana were embodied in his two reports. The first was
                    submitted to the legislature at the 1837-1838 session, and the second at the 1838-1839 session. Both
                    reports were printed by the state, and included in the Documentary Journal. Owen
                    made a series of maps and geological illustrations to accompany these reports, but they were never
                    published. The original illustrations were supposed to have been deposited in the State Library, but
                    they seem to have been lost. Owen's two modest little pamphlets, the first of thirty-four
                    pages, and the second of fifty-four pages, exhibit the thoroughness with which he investigated the
                    geology of the state, and are a tribute to his keenness of observation and his ability to draw
                    correct conclusions from his observations. Written in a simple and direct style, they were meant to
                    be understood by the layman, and the first report was prefaced by a short exposition of the
                    principles of geology, which is an excellent summary of the geological knowledge of the day.
            
               
                  45
                        Indiana House Journal, Seas. of 1838-1839, 160. The committee to which the
                        governor's message was referred made a long and convincing report in favor of the
                        survey, and it was only after an animated debate that the opponents of the bill succeeded in
                        tabling it. See 
                            Logansport
                         Herald, Feb. 21, 1839.
               
                  46 Record of Commissions, 1837-1845, Mu. in office of Secretary of State
                        of Indiana.
               
                  47
                        Indiana House Journal, Sess. of 1839-1840, 451.
               
                  48 Logan Esarey. "Internal Improvements in Early
                        Indiana," Indiana Historical Society, Publications (1911), V, 109,
                        119; Autobiography, D. D. Owen Papers.
            
            
            Owen was always conscious of the fact that he was a public servant, and never sacrificed the public
                    interest to his personal enthusiasm for science. Yet, he also believed that he had a mission to
                    perform, and that it was his duty to educate the people so that they would understand that geology,
                    while a science, was yet a practical science. Upon taking office as state geologist, he issued a
                    statement to the press, that in accordance with the act of the legislature, he would receive at 
                        New Harmony
                    , any specimens of minerals or metals about which the citizens wished information. These
                    he would analyze during those periods when he was not in the field. In addition to this statutory
                    requirement, Owen invited any person to send him fossils, rock and mineral specimens of interest,
                    and especially urged engineers, miners, well-diggers and quarrymen to advance the interests of
                    science by being on the lookout for such material. He gave detailed instructions for the packing and
                    shipment of specimens and offered to pay transportation charges on all such material submitted to
                        him.49 There is a letter in existence which discloses that at least one
                    citizen of the state co-operated with him. The writer, Samuel H. Dowden of Dear born county, told
                    Owen about the various minerals on his farm, described fossils found in the creek bed, and offered
                    to send specimens.50
            
            In concluding his first report, State Geologist Owen made a series of suggestions to the legislature
                    as to the future conduct of the geological survey of the state. He advised that the state would find
                    it money well spent to institute an organization which would make a minute and detailed examination
                    of all the geological features of the state, including a topographical survey, the mapping of the
                    extent of all the formations within the state, and the analysis of all the coal, building stone, and
                    mineral deposits, and the thorough classification of all fossil remains. He recognized that such a
                    survey would cost both money and time, and although he said that the results would justify the
                    expenditure, he felt that a continuation of the plan under which his office was 
                  
                     49
                            Indiana Journal, Apr. 15, 1837; Indiana Democrat, Apr.
                            12, 1837; 
                                Logansport
                             Canal-Telegraph. May 6, 1837; 
                                Bloomington
                             Post. May 12. 1837.
                  
                     50 Samuel H. Dowden to Robert Dale Owen [11, Healthy Retreat, 
                                Dearborn
                             County, Ind., May 24, 1837, Maclure Papers, Working Men's Institute
                            Library, 
                                New Harmony
                            , Ind. Without doubt, the person who wrote the letter meant it for David Dale
                            Owen. Robert Dale had such a state-wide reputation that persons often addressed him when
                            they meant to address one of his leas well-known brothers.
               
                     created would accomplish much that was worth while.51 Owen was tactful enough to realize that legislatures should be led, not
                    driven, into increasing the expenditures of the state.
            When one reads these unpretentious, lucid reports of the first state geologist on the geology of
                    Indiana, one is impressed with their accuracy and fundamental correctness. His work has been the
                    basis of all later investigations by succeeding state geologists, and although they have amplified
                    and added details to his descriptions of the formations of the state, there have been very few of
                    his conclusions which have been discredited.52 His breadth of vision, and his
                    discrimination between the essential and the non-essential have made his work of lasting importance.
                    His contemporaries thought well of his work, and the American Journal of Science and
                        Arts devoted two pages to a review of the first report, ending with this statement: 
                        The report is concluded with suggestions as to the future detailed survey, which as they are
                            (like the entire report) marked by much good sense and correct knowledge, ought to command,
                            and we trust will secure, the attention of the legislature and the people of Indianan.53
                  
                    
            
            Largely on the strength of his work in Indiana, David Dale Owen was, in 1838, chosen by James A.
                    Witcomb, then Commissioner of the General Land Office, to make a survey of the 
                        United States
                     mineral lands in 
                        Iowa
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and, while engaged in this survey, Owen acquitted himself with the same brilliance
                    that he had exhibited in his work in Indiana.54
            
            
               
                  51
                        First Indiana Report, 33-34.
               
                  52 W. S. Blatchley, op. cit., 99, 109.
               
                  53
                        American Journal of Science and Arts (1938), Ser. 1, XXXIV. 196.
               
                  54 See Arthur Deen, "Early Science in the 
                            Ohio
                         Valley," for a brief account of the work of David Dale Owen after 1838,
                            Indiana Magazine of History (March, 1937), XXXIII, 41-42.
            
         
         
         
            The Period of Early Statehood in Indiana
            JOHN B. DILLON*
            
            
                    The State was in its infancy, its resources were undeveloped, its citizens were not wealthy, and,
                        while the number of the proper objects of taxation was small, their value, at that time, was not
                        great. The revenue which was necessary for the support of the new State government, was, for a
                        period of about twenty years, drawn almost wholly from the land-holders; and the funds required
                        for county purposes were derived, chiefly, from a poll tax, and taxes on lands, town lots,
                        horses, carriages, clocks, and watches, and from charges on licenses which were granted to the
                        vendors of merchandise, the retailers of spiritous liquors, and the keepers of taverns. For
                        revenue purposes, the taxable lands were classed as first rate, second rate, and third rate
                        lands. The taxes which were levied on such lands, for the support of the State government, were
                        not burdensome. For example, the rate of taxation on one hundred acres
                        was—
                    In 1817, on first rate land, $1.00; on second rate land, 87'fs cents; on
                        third rate land, 50 cents.
                    In 1818, on first rate land, $1.00; on second rate land, 87, cents; on third rates
                        land, 62% cents.
                    In 1821, on first rate land, $1.50; on second rate land, $1.25; on third
                        rate land, 75 cents.
                    In 1824, on first rate land, $1.50; on second rate land, $1.00; on third
                        rate land, 75 cents.
                    In 1831, on first rate land, 80 cents; on second rate land, 50 cents; on third rate land, 40
                        cents.
                    By an act of February 7, 1835, the general assembly made some provisions for the levying of taxes
                        on land, not according to its quality, but in proportion to its value; and every assessor was
                        required to appraise taxable land "as he would appraise the same in the payment of a
                        just debt due from a solvent debtor." The new mode of raising a State revenue by the
                        levying of a certain per centage on the value of taxable property, was, on its adoption, viewed
                        by many persons as a measure of doubtful expediency; but a large majority of the people soon
                        began to regard it as an equitable mode of taxation, and a part of the settled policy of the
                        State government.
                
            
               
                  * The matter on this page Is reprinted from Dillon's
                            History of Indiana (Indian-apolis. 1859), 564. This able historian wrote
                        very little on the period following 1816. The matter here reproduced is Included in a short
                        chapter (%LVI) which is entitled "General Views of the Progress of Population and
                        Improvements."
            
         
         
         
            The Underground Railroad in Hendricks County
            ROSCOE R. LEAK
            All students of the slavery controversy between the states know something of the workings of the
                    Underground Railroad. Only a few know that Hendricks County, Indiana, had any particular part in
                    this very interesting work of aiding Negroes to escape to 
                        Canada
                    . Practically all of these activities took place in the decade preceding the Civil War,
                    and many of those who took part in this work did not care to talk about it, even in later years.
            There was trouble over the rescue of slaves by their masters for many years. Then, in 1850, Congress
                    passed the famous amendment to the Fugitive Slave Law. Under this measure, any citizen was obliged,
                    if requested, to join in the capture of fugitive slaves. Those who believed in helping to free
                    run-away slaves were called abolitionists. The feeling between these and slave owners had been
                    aggravated by slave-dealers kidnapping free negroes and selling them. People who were
                    conscientiously opposed to slavery were very much concerned about such happenings, and, of course,
                    they did not want to help in recapturing slaves.
            Before 1850, there had been little organized opposition to slavery in the north. One direct result of
                    the new federal regulations in regard to fugitive slaves was the organization of the Anti-Slavery
                    League. This was a secret organization, having money back of it, with which to employ men to promote
                    ways for slaves to reach freedom. They laid out routes towards 
                        Canada
                     and directed slaves along them. Though this was in direct opposition to federal law,
                    many people were willing to take the risk for the cause which they believed to be right. Eastern
                    abolition agents took the lead in organizing Underground Railroad routes as they came to be called.
                    Most of the workers in this anti-slavery enterprise were stationed along the 
                        Ohio
                     River to help slaves get started on friendly routes towards freedom. There were many
                    routes from the 
                        Ohio
                     northward, some of which were used more often than others, depending on conditions.1
            
            Some of the routes were variations of more important routes. Probably, two or three of the less
                    frequently used routes passed through Hendricks County. It is probable that 
                  
                     1 Logan Burry. History of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1918), I. 626-628
               
                     nearly all refugees passing through this County crossed the 
                        Ohio
                     river below 
                        New Albany
                    . The roads on the west side of the state seemed to converge at, 
                        Niles Michigan
                    . One of the main routes went by way of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Bloomingdale and 
                        Lafayette
                    . Another went by way of Brownstown, 
                  Bloomington, Westfield
                and 
                        Logansport
                    . The west side of Hendricks County seems to have been supplied With refugees that came
                    by way of Bloomingdale, or some other point along the same route. Those who passed through the east
                    side of Hendricks County evidently came by way of 
                        Bloomington
                     and 
                        Mooresville
                     through 
                        Plainfield
                     and then on north to 
                        Westfield
                    . We do not know just where the 
                        Plainfield
                     stations were. As this place has always been a strong settlement of Friends, there were
                    probably several stations in the vicinity.
            People who took part in this work were inclined to keep the information concealed, even after the
                    trouble had passed into history. Only at two places in Hendricks County do we know just how the
                    stations were equipped for concealing the refugees. In the Reminiscence of Levi
                    Coffin, "Reputed President of the Underground Railroad," he gives in detail
                    his work with runaway slaves at 
                        Cincinnati
                     and near 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana. He explains how they were cared for and transported. Col. Cockrum in his History of the Underground Railroad tells stories of much the same kind in regard
                    to the care of these unfortunates on his father's 
                        Pike
                     County farm, and about helping them on their way northward.2 He
                    also relates interesting stories of how slaves were started on their road to freedom by agents
                    working south of the 
                        Ohio
                     river.
            Near the little town of Hadley in Hendricks County, Addison Coffin, a relative of Levi Coffin, and
                    Nathan Hadley helped in this work.3 Mr. Coffin was very active. He kept a
                    station and acted as a conductor.4 W. B. Newlin of Pecksburg states that his
                    father visited Addison Coffin just at the close of the Civil War, when he heard from him stories of
                    the Underground Railroad.5
            
            Probably the most used station in this county was what was known as "The White
                    House," some three miles west of 
                  
                     2 Col. William M. Cockrum, A History of the Underground
                                Railroad (
                                Oakland City
                            , Indiana, 1915), 10-13; ibid., map, 8.
                  
                     3 a 
                                Danville
                            
                            Republican, March 30. 1938. See for an article, "I Told You
                            So."
                  
                     4
                            Directory of Hendricks County (
                                Danville
                            , 1874), 199.
                  
                     5
                            
                                Danville
                            
                            Republican, March 30, 1938.
               
                    
                    
                        Danville
                    .6 Mr. Coffin is said to have taken Mr. Newlin to this house in
                    order to show him the secret hiding place. This house was built in 1852 by Charles Rice who came
                    from 
                        Ohio
                    . He selected a farm on a high ridge, partly covered with large sugar trees and other
                    fine timber. The place selected for the house commands a view of the surrounding country for many
                    miles north, east and south. The timber was mostly west and northwest of the house. The house still
                    stands but is in very poor condition. It is built colonial style with both east and south fronts. At
                    the time of its construction, it was presumed that what is now the 
                        St. Louis
                     division of the "Big Four" Railroad would pass near by on the south
                    of the house. For this reason, the house was built so that the south front would face the
                        railroad.7 The east front faced the public highway. On this side of the
                    house are two long rows of pine trees that can be seen for miles. The house is about two miles west
                    of 
                        Danville
                    .
            It is possible that Mr. Rice wanted the house so placed that it could be seen by those coming from
                    the south, particularly from the vacinity of Hadley, then called Mimosa. It is
                    said that a light was kept burning at night in a window where it could be seen for a long way. The
                    ell shaped house was built with the arms fifty and fifty-two feet. The rooms are twenty feet square.
                    There is a hall and stairway in the center on the south side which is twelve feet wide. There is
                    another stairway in the east wing. The upper floor is so arranged that there is no communication
                    between the east and south wings. Mr. Rice always kept a number of negroes to work for him. The men
                    were quartered in one upper wing and the women in the other. Extra negroes about the place would not
                    have attracted much attention among the neighbors.
            The west room on the main floor is the one that contained the secret closet where fleeing slaves were
                    hidden. This large rooni, had a fireplace in the west end that was built entirely within the outer
                    wall of the house, but instead of the usual presses or closets on either side of the fireplace the
                    west wall of the room was solid and the lines on either side just even with the fireplace. This made
                    it appear to 
                  
                     6 Charles Rice bought eighty acres of Edward Strange and hi. wif.
                            Polly In 1862. The record gives the date of the deed as Jan. 30. On Sept. 1, 1852, Caleb M.
                            Embree deeded another tract of and to Mr. Rice. but the "White House" was
                            built on the eighty acres purchased of Mr. Strange and wife. fin Hendricks Dandy Deed
                            Records. Book 15, p. 96, for description of the eighty acre. and date of purchase
                  
                     7
                            
                                Danville
                            
                            Republican, March 23. 1933.
               
                     one in the room, that the fireplace and chimney were built
                    outside the outer wall. The spaces on either side of the fireplace were plastered on the outer side
                    of the wall of the room to make them warm. There was left a room about three feet wide and twenty
                    feet long only partly divided in the middle by the chimney of the fireplace. The only way to reach
                    this long narrow partly divided room, it seems, was through a hole in the back of the fireplace
                    where bricks could be easily removed when no fire was burning, then replaced after used as an
                    entrance to the secret room. If those on guard feared a visit from searchers, a fire would be built
                    to allay all suspicion.
            There could have been a trap door into this secret room from the room above, but people who claim to
                    have known the house years ago say there was no such entrance. Others who visited at this house as
                    children in later years and played in this upper room do not know of any entrance to this space.
            It is possible to picture the quiet of the house on a dark night, with a candle dimly burning in the
                    window. Then there would be a stealthy knock at the door and a group of fleeing slaves, guided by
                    Addison Coffin, or some of his friends, would be admitted. After a hurried conversation, the negroes
                    would be told to crawl into the secret room and would be given food and maybe a candle for light. If
                    there was danger of pursuit, a fire would be hastily built in the fireplace. After a day or two,
                    perhaps, when the guests were rested and it was safe to proceed farther, they were invited to leave
                    the hiding place and were oufitted with clothing and other necessaries for further travel. Then,
                    under the guidance of Mr. Rice, or some of his helpers, they were conducted to the next station.
            The nearest station to the north that is known was on the farm of Thomas Burgess. This farm was later
                    known as the Job Hadley farm. Mr. Burgess was the the father of Tracy (Burgess) Hadley, wife of Job
                        Hadley.8 Mr. Hadley, with many others of the same name were of the 
                        Quaker
                     faith and belonged to the anti-slavery element. The members of the Burgess family were
                    also Friends. The Hadleys came from 
                        North Carolina
                    , but the Burgess family 
                  
                     8
                            lndiana History Bulletin (1924), Nos. 11-12, Vol. I. Thomas Burgess
                            purchasedthe forty acres (part of Sec. 15, Tp. 17, R1W) on which the barn is located from
                            Samuel Warwick on Feb. 5, 1853. Hendricks County Deed Records, Book 16, 143.
               
                     came from 
                        Virginia
                    . Thomas Burgess owned one hundred acres of land lying mostly in a large swamp, known as
                    "Seven Mile 
                        Prairie
                    ," in the northern part of Hendricks County, about three miles north and east
                    of what is now Lizton. This town was then the village of New Elizabeth. In 1865
                    (and probably for some years before), Job Hadley owned 245 acres on the south and east of the
                    Burgess land in the lowest part of the swamp.9 Mr. Hadley later owned all of
                    this land. The first that is known of Mr. Hadley in this locality is when he came to survey the
                    land.
            An old lady once told the writer, that, when a girl in her early teens, she had heard people say they
                    thought slaves were routed to this farm from 
                        Plainfield
                     and other stations, on their way to 
                        Canada
                    . This old lady lived near Lizton all her life.10
            
            On this farm is an old frame barn which was built before the Civil War. It is much the same now that
                    it was then, and in it fugitive slaves are supposed to have been hidden. This barn was built with a
                    wooden floor in the driveway. There were stalls for the stock on either side. The hay from the mow
                    was thrown down into the driveway for feeding. In the floor was a trap door to a cellar or basement
                    that had no outside communication. Trash and hay hid this door except when in use, so a stranger
                    would never notice it. In later years, this cellar was used as a storage room for potatoes and other
                    things. Theodore Ogden, who lived on this farm in recent years, told writer that he tore out the
                    wooden floor and filled the cellar with dirt, as it had become unsafe. This barn is about three and
                    a half miles northeast of Lizton and, therefore, about twelve miles from the "White
                    House" built by Charles Rice. This secret barn-basement just described was situated quite
                    like the basement in the Cockrum barn at 
                        Oakland City
                    , Indiana, as described by Col. Wm. M. Cockrum.11 The proof is not
                    positive, but almost so, that this was the secret hiding place of one station of the Underground
                    Railroad. 
                        Westfield
                     and Russiaville were probably the next main stations, with perhaps two or three minor
                    stations to be passed en route from the Cockrum Station, near 
                        Oakland City
                    , to the station maintained 
                  
                     9 map of Hendricks County, 1865.
                  
                     10 Mrs. Sara Leach Duzan who was born in 1847, and died in 1936.
                  
                     11 Cockrum, op. cit., 19. See also 71, 81, 89, 137,
                            167, for references to the Cockrum barn-cellar.
               
                     on the old Rice farm northwest of 
                        Danville
                    , Indiana.12
            
            This is a chapter in local history of which little is now known, but about which much could have been
                    learned if some interested persons had collected the data some thirty or forty years ago. This was
                    an issue on which most people had very decided opinions. Those who were interested in helping the
                    runaway slaves went into the work "heart and soul" and took many risks. It has
                    ever been so when great moral issues have reached the crucial stage.
            
               
                  12
                        
                            Westfield
                         is some twenty or more miles northeast of the Burgess Place. It is located in the
                        next 
                            Quaker
                         settlement where a station of the Underground Railroad was located. Colonel Cockrum
                        mentions none of the stations in Hendricks County, nor does he trace any route through this
                        County. The stations in Hen-dricks County may have been used when other routes were inconvenient
                        or when they were considered more dangerous. It was good policy to have secret routes that could
                        be used instead of main routes to throw pursuers off the trail.
            
         
         
         
            The Merom Bluff Chautauqua
            JAMES W. CONLIN
            The Nineteenth Century produced in the 
                        United States
                     two men who were destined to give to the world an institution which is truly American.
                    One of these men was Bishop John H. Vincent. When he was sixteen years of age, he became a circuit
                    riding minister of the Methodist Church. During the period of his active ministry, he held
                    pastorates in 
                        New Jersey
                     and in 
                        Galena
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , where for two years he was the pastor of Ulysses S. Grant. Later, Rev. Vincent became
                    secretary to the organization directing the Methodist Episcopal Sunday Schools throughout the world.
            The second of these two worthy men was Lewis Miller. He was a slightly educated, but resourceful,
                    business man of 
                        Akron
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , who made a fortune with the Buckeye Mower and Reaper. Mr. Miller is also remembered as
                    the father-in-law of the late Thomas A. Edison. It was through his influence that the first assembly
                    of the original Chautauqua was held in the 
                        New York
                     Woods.
            The Chautauqua, as previously stated, owes its origin to John H. Vincent and Lewis Miller. The
                    movement was sponsored by the Methodist Episcopal Churches of 
                        New York
                    . Preparations were begun in the fall of 1873, as a result of the untiring efforts of
                    the cleric and the inventor. The aim from the start was to make the venture inter-denominational and
                    non-sectarian. This idea was carried out at the first session, when, although sponsored by the
                    Methodist Episcopal Churches, the audience was addressed by a Baptist, a Pres-byterian, a Methodist
                    and a Congregationalist. The first assembly, called "The Sunday School Teachers'
                    Assembly," was conducted for the purpose of better equipping Sunday School teachers for
                    their work of instruction. It was held at Fairport, on Chautauqua Lake in 
                        New York
                    , on Tuesday evening, August 4, 1874. The sessions were held in an outdoor auditorium,
                    lighted by pine fires.
            The sponsors of the movement were so encouraged by the attendance and interest manifested, that they
                    planned a second assembly to be held at the same place in 1875. There was no change in policy, and
                    dignity was lent to the second session by a visit of President Grant.
            The third assembly was conducted on the shores of  Chautauqua Lake
                    in 1876, the national centennial year. Many features were added to the program. It was during this
                    season that the first musical program, other than of a re-ligious nature, was given. Frances Willard
                    delivered the first address ever given by a woman on the Chautauqua platform. The first
                    children's work was done during this session and took the form of daily meetings.
            From this time on, the annual assemblies at Lake Chautauqua, expanded steadily, and embraced
                    lectures, music, children's work, round tables, study courses and reading circles. The
                    theory behind Chautaqua was that life as one and that religion belonged everywhere. The Chautauqua
                    idea called for a combination of liberal education with opportunity for recreational rest. The
                    Chautauqua made a plea for universal education, plans of reading and study, all legitimate
                    enticements and incitements to ambition, and all necessary adaptations as to time and topics.
            The citizens of Merom, Indiana, and vicinity realizing that a Chautauqua would fill a need in the
                    community which no other organization could fill, formed an association in 1905. This institution
                    served for many years as teacher, preacher and entertainer, and helped men and women, boys and
                    girls, to live better after than before it came. The programs were designed to give expression to
                    every influence for broader culture, better citizenship and higher ideals of living; to sponsor
                    vligious and moral reform and to take part in the dissemination of social propaganda. Therefore,
                    Merom established an organization and developed a program to be presented on the Bluff from August
                    16 to August 23, 1905.1
            
            This first session was arranged in a few weeks time by a temporary association formed to put the
                    matter to a test whether a Chautauqua Assembly would probably be successful at Merom. The response
                    was encouraging and left no doubt as to the possibility. In 1906, the first Articles of
                    In-corporation were legally filed and the Merom Bluff Chautauqua was, as an organization, launched
                    upon a lengthy and varied career of thirty years.2
            
            The by-laws of the Merom Bluff Chautauqua Association 
                  
                     1 Programs and Association Record Books were loaned to the author by
                            Mrs. Theodore H. Hunt of Merom, and by Dr. J. J. Parker, now deceased. Dr. Parker was a
                            physician of Merom who served on the Chautauqua Board for nineteen years. The Merom Bluff
                            Chautauqua was held each year during the month of August.
                  
                     2 The last Chautauqua program at Merom was that of August.
                        1936.
               
                     provided for a President, two Vice-Presidents, a Secretary, an
                    Assistant Secretary, a Financial Secretary, a Treasurer and an Auditor. It further provided for
                    three superintendents, each to head one of the three departments, grounds, sanitation and
                    transportation, which were created by the Association.
            The Merom Bluff Chautauqua was organized as an independent organization. It was not affiliated with
                    any lyceum bureau, church, school or other organization. Its only object was, and continued to be,
                    the dissemination of that broad culture and liberal education which leads to better citizenship and
                    higher standards of living. To this end, its managing board was chosen to represent the various
                    churches and political parties. It was not interested in any propaganda of social or political
                    doctrine, or of any religious creed or cult. The chief aim of the Association was to furnish
                    entertainment, rest and recreation. No mercenary motives gave rise to this Chautauqua, and any
                    effort to commercialize it would have been strenuously opposed at any time by the worthy individuals
                    who had the welfare of both the Chautauqua and community as their chief interest. Throughout the
                    years of its existence, every effort was put forth to keep it free from any connection that would
                    have made it subservient to the purposes of any other organization. As the institution was not
                    founded for profit, the Association's policy was to use all surplus funds to provide added
                    grounds and permanent improvements.
            At the time of the founding of the Chautauqua on the Bluff in 1905, passenger boats yet plied the 
                        Wabash
                     River. The Indiana left Cherry Street, 
                        Terre Haute
                    , at 7:00 A.M., Wednesday, August 16, arriving at Merom at Noon. The fare was
                    eighty-five cents. Boats also met all Big Four Trains at Hutsonville, 
                        Illinois
                    , and all 
                        Illinois
                     Central Trains at Riverton, Indiana. At a later date when river transportation had
                    ceased, cabs met all 
                        Illinois
                     Central trains at Merom Station.3
            
            For the sake of convenience, and to the end that a vacation spirit might be developed and maintained,
                    tenting 
                  
                     3 she 
                                Illinois
                             Central line which crosses the 
                                Wabash
                             south of Merom maintained a station on the River. called Riverton. This was
                            about two miles south of Merom. The new stop. called Merom Station. was located about two
                            miles east of Riverton and approximately one mile and a half from the Merom Bluff Chautauqua
                            grounds. Bus service to Sullivan was sometimes maintained. which enabled lecturers or
                            patrons to come to Merom by the C. and E. I., without the necessity of changing to the I. C.
                            for the short run to Merom Station.
               
                     facilities, a swimming beach, excursion boats and tennis courts
                    were provided for the use of the Chautauqua "fans." In case the camper brought his
                    own tent, space was rented to him for two dollars for the duration of the Chautauqua. Throughout the
                    history of the Merom Chautauqua, it was necessary for all campers to provide their own blankets.
                    Such furnishings, however, as cots, stoves, camp chairs and tables might be had on the grounds at a
                    nominal rental charge. As early as 1919, the management of the Merom Bluff Chautauqua lighted the
                    tents by electricity which was supplied by a "Matthews" farm lighting plant,
                    rented from a Sullivan agency.4
            
            In 1915, the Merom Bluft Chautauqua Association paid to the Hetrick Tent Company three hundred
                    fifty-six dollars and forty-three cents rental for the auditorium tent and the smaller camping
                    tents. Ten years later, the Association received four hundred thirty dollars and fifty cents rental
                    on the tents occupied by the visitors. In 1932 ten thousand four hundred ninety-seven square feet of
                    tenting was rented from the 
                        Terre Haute
                     Tent and Awning Company for which the Association paid a rental charge of eighty-seven
                    dollars and fifty cents. In 1914, the attendance having increased beyond all hopes, and there being
                    those who preferred hotel accommodations rather than camping facilities, the Harper property was
                    purchased, refurnished, and leased to Eleanor Foster of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Nine years later, the Hotel was leased to W. O. 
                        Butler
                    . At the latter date, rooms might be had at prices ranging from five dollars to
                    twenty-five dollars per season.
            Throughout the life of the Merom Bluff Chautauqua, the aim of the management was to provide the best
                    available talent at such a price as would be within the reach of all. The price of adult season
                    tickets varied from one dollar and twenty-five cents to three dollars and fifty cents. Season
                    tickets for children varied over a range of seventy-five cents to one and one-half dollars each.
                    Season tickets for both adults and children were transferable. In 1914, 3 day ticket, consisting of
                    morning, afternoon and evening coupons, was introduced. At the same time, a four day ticket was
                    offered to the Chautauqua patrons. Three hundred 
                  
                     4 In order to demonstrate the latest In aviation, a biplane was
                            brought to field near the Merom Chautauqua grounds in 1914. The nest summer a monoplane was
                            engaged to make flights from the same field during the period of the annual assembly.
               
                     fifty-three adult and twenty-nine juvenile season tickets were
                    sold in 1915. These brought the committee the sum of seven hundred thirty-three dollars and forty
                    cents. In 1916, the directors voted to reserve five hundred forty daily tickets for those days on
                    which there were scheduled outstanding programs, and two hundred for each of the other days. The
                    rate for these reservations was one dollar per person for the season, or ten cents per session. The
                    following year, return checks were issued and sold for ten cents each. These seem to have been used
                    for a period of three years.
            Due to the fact that Merom Chautauqua officials spared no money or effort in order to secure the best
                    available talent, the attendance grew by leaps and bounds. This naturally increased the income as
                    well as the expenditures. In the year 1915, the total receipts were four thousand six hundred six
                    dollars and nineteen cents. In 1917, the ticket sales, tent rentals and concession rentals amounted
                    to nine thousand nine hundred forty dollars and thirty-one cents; in 1921, seven thousand four
                    hundred six dollars and nineteen cents; in 1922, six thousand eighteen dollars and thirty-six cents;
                    and in 1924, seven thousand four hundred seventy-three dollars and ninety-five cents. As a means of
                    comparison, there is included a statement of expenditures for the same years. For 1917, the total
                    expenditures were nine thousand nine hundred twenty-two dollars and forty-eight cents; in 1921, nine
                    thous-and ten dollars and one cent; in 1922, five thousand two hundred forty dollars and twenty
                    cents; and for 1924, seven thousand three hundred twenty-eight dollars and ninety-five cents.
            The extended success of the Merom Bluff Chautauqua, as was demonstrated by the length of time that it
                    continued its existence, was due to a series of factors. Some of these were: the interest which the
                    stockholders, directors and committee took in their patrons; the personality and intelligence of the
                    platform' managers; and the high quality talent of lecturers, musicians and entertainers
                    who were engaged.5
            
            
               
                  5 n all. sixty-eight of the lecturers who appeared before the Merom Bluff
                        Chautauqua during its history are found in the 1934-1936 edition of Who's Who in
                        America, while the names of thirteen appear in the Dictionary of American Biography. Among the
                        many celebrities who lectured before the Chautauqua audiences at Merom were: Albert J.
                        Beveridge, Victor L. Berger, William Jennings Bryan, Champ Clark, Russell H. Conwell, Eugene V.
                        Debs, Jonathan P. Dolliver. Thomas P. Gore, Frank W. Gunsaulus, J. Frank Hanly, 
                            Warren
                         G. Harding, 
                            Richmond
                         P. Hobson, Robert M. LaFollette, Thomas R. Marshall, Carrie A. Nation, Miles
                        Poindexter, Samuel M. Ralston. William Howard Taft. Benjamin R. Tillman, James S. Vardaman, Rev.
                        Wilbur Glenn Voliva and Dr. Herbert N. Willet. Of the lecturers in this list who appeared more
                        than once. J. Frank Hardy filled four engagements;
            
            
            The effect of the cultural advantages of the Merom Bluff Chautauqua is to be recognized in the
                    community. The constant attenders of the Chautauqua have been better informed relative to those
                    great and vital questions which have confronted the country since 1905. The children in the schools
                    have had a broader outlook on life, and a keener sense of appreciation of the existing conditions,
                    as well as a knowledge of the major events and questions of the past years. Certainly the managers
                    of the Chautauqua attempted, among other things, to bring information to the people and to stimulate
                    thought about matters of significance.
            
               William Jennings Bryan, Thomas P. Gore, and Herbert N. Willett served three times each.
                        Certain less known men were brought back more often. The most popular lecturer was McIlyar 
                            Hamilton
                         Lichliter, who came to Merom in twelve different years. E. J. Llewellyn was present
                        in ten different years, but. in most of them, he served as platform manager, though he did
                        deliver lectures occasionally
            
         
         
         
            Clark Cemetery of the Old Scott Settlement
            ROBERT K. STUART
            It was on a day in mid-August, 1836, that Crystal David William Scott, famed hunter, who for a year
                    had followed the meanderings of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , appeared before the Register of the Land Office at LaPorte, Indiana. He came in order
                    to deposit the customary one dollar and a quarter an acre for a tract of two hundred twenty-eight
                    acres in what is now Liberty Township, White County.1
            
            The region in which the land lay was then just open for settlement. Less than two years before, a
                    board of commissioners appointed by the Indiana Legislature to undertake the organization of White
                    County had selected the site of 
                        Monticello
                     as the seat of government and had given the place its name in honor of Thomas
                    Jefferson. In much of the surrounding country, affairs were even less advanced. In what afterwards
                    became 
                        Pulaski
                     County, adjoining White County on the north, there were very few, if any, whites till
                    1830. A cabin was erected on the site of Winamac, its county seat, in 1837, and the town itself was
                    platted in 1839.
            In the country now comprising Liberty Township, White County, and Beaver Township, 
                        Pulaski
                     County, settlers were arriving in considerable numbers late in the eighteen-thirties.
                    The names of many of these hardy and honored pioneers, the forebears of many a well known family of
                    the two counties, are to be found on the markers of the old section of Clark Cemetery in Liberty
                    Township of White County.
            The cemetery carries with it an interesting story of pioneer life. Situated on a knoll above the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     River, it overlooked acres of native forest, with the river beyond and below. A more
                    beautiful and attractive spot for a burial ground could not have been found.
            It was not mere accident that brought about its selection. This plot was designated for a meeting
                    house and burial ground for what had been planned to be an important civic and shopping center. The
                    name chosen by Scott for the place was Wyoming. Having made purchase of the land in 1836,
                    Scott's title had been thus assured. By February, 1837, a patent in confirmation of his
                    title had not yet been issued to him, but the developments of those days were too rapid 
                  
                     1 This land formed parts of Sections 1 and 11. Ty.28N.,R.3W.
               
                     to abide formalities or await the slow processes of the General
                    Land Office. Announcement had been made that a trunk highway was to join the settlement of 
                        Rochester
                     in 
                        Fulton County
                     thirty-five miles to the northeast of Wyoming, with that of 
                        Monticello
                     in White County, twelve miles to the south, and was to cross the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     at a ford above the rapids opposite Scott's land.
            It was this ford that had first attracted Scott, the hunter, to the lands which he acquired.
                    Previously, Scott's home had been in 
                        Cass County
                    , adjoining the northern portion of White County to the east. While on his excursion
                    into the newly organized White County, his course led him to a village of the Pottawatomi Indians on
                    the eastern bank of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , some three miles west of the present hamlet of Sitka. It was one of two Indian
                    villages in White County that had been set up following the scattering of the tribesmen ofveral
                    Indian nations that had engaged in the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     in 1811. The Indian village comprised possibly a hundred wigwams, which furnished
                    habitation for some three or four hundred Indians. These subdued Pottatatomies were a friendly lot,
                    who obtained a living by hunting and fishing, begging and thieving, and from a few acres of Indian
                    corn farmed by the squaws. From this village, a trail led northward. In pursuit of game and in quest
                    of land, how joyous must have been Scott's departure as he followed the trail till it led
                    at last to the ford above the rapids. He had reached the land he would enter for settlement. It was
                    with an eye to the future that the lands which he purchased from the Government were all selected
                    along the 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , and his choice was among the first.
            At this ford, Scott saw not the trail of the Pottawatomies but a mighty highway; in the swift running
                    stream, not mere fishing pools but a force that would turn the wheels of industry; in the forest and
                    on the hillside, not alone the haunt of the deer that he loved so well to follow but the lumber and
                    rich gravel deposits with which to build a city: This was truly a natural place for a town of
                    importance, and within a few months of his original purchase, and with the proposed state highway in
                    prospect, Scott had a preliminary survey of his land made and a plat drafted. His confidence in the
                    project was complete. On February 24, 1837, he wrote: "Wyoming is handsomely situated on
                    the bank of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                    
                     River at a point where the State road will cross the same
                    leading from 
                        Rochester
                     to 
                        Monticello
                    . It is surrounded by a rich and beautiful country of land for production, with an
                    elegant mill seat adjoining the town plat."
            The state road to join 
                        Rochester
                     and 
                        Monticello
                     had yet to be viewed and located by commissioners who had been appointed by the
                    legislature of the state at its session of 1836-7. These commissioners filed their report with the
                    County Board of White County on September 4, 1837, but located the highway by another route than
                    Scott had contemplated—one that would cross the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     within the limits of 
                        Monticello
                    . Forthwith Scott protested, and commissioners were then appointed by the White County
                    Board to re-view and re-locate the road as far as the White County portion was concerned. This move
                    did not avail. A rival route had won. There were, in consequence, no bidders for lots in the Town of
                    Wyoming, and Scott eventually abandoned the effort to promote a city there. For many years, however,
                    his home and the acreage he had reserved for a meeting house and burial ground formed a community
                    center.
            It was at the home of Crystal D. W. Scott, in 1837, that the first church of Liberty Township was
                    organized, a class of the New Light denomination, and, in his house, services were held for two
                    years. The founder of this church was Abram Sneathan, a circuit rider, who had himself entered land
                    in Liberty Township on October 10, 1836. In 1839, a meeting house for this church congregation was
                    built on the burial ground, a structure about twenty-five feet square of round logs of black oak.
                    This building served as church and public meeting place for a decade.
            Also at the home of Crystal D. W. Scott, there was held the first election of Liberty Township on
                    Monday, April 2. 1838. Records disclose twelve persons to have attended, including pioneers whose
                    influence has been lasting in 
                        Pulaski
                     as well as in White County. The order of the board of county commissioners entered on
                    September 5, 1837, establishing Liberty Township, and under whose authority the election was held,
                    directed that all that portion of 
                        Pulaski
                     County, yet unorganized, lying north of the newly organized township, be attached
                    thereto. This arrangement remained in force until the organization of Beaver Township which
                    organization occured in April, 1840. On the sixth day of  that
                    month, the first election of Beaver Township was held at the house of Asa Inman, with twenty-two
                    persons voting.
            Of the men attending these first elections, the graves of several in Clark Cemetery can be
                    identified, while the graves of many others of these groups cannot be, for want of records or
                    markers. There may be noted the plot of John McDowell, whose death is recorded as of March 16, 1850;
                    that of Charles M. Silence, who was the first white person to die in Beaver Township; that of Robert
                    Scott, whose headstone describes him as one of the first settlers of 
                        Pulaski
                     County; that of Jesse Coppock, who served as a member of the first board of county
                    commissioners of 
                        Pulaski
                     County, and who died on January 12, 1851; and that of Robert White, Sr., one of the
                    largest landowners of the area in his day, and who departed this life during the period of the Civil
                    War.
            There are many graves of generations ago, each marked only by a small stone at the foot of the grave
                    to the east anda boulder at the head of the grave to the west, that a casual observer may pass
                    without notice. The pity is that the identification of great numbers of persons buried here is
                    impossible for no other reason than the fact that throughout the years there has been absolutely no
                    recording of the burials made in Clark Cemetery.
            The record of the Crystal D. W. Scott family, as disclosed by weather-worn markers, gives evidence of
                    the hardships shared by the pioneers, when skilled medical service was all but impossible to obtain:
                    an infant daughter, without name, died on August 27, 1838; Gabriel, a son, died on August 21, 1839;
                    Samuel, a son, died on January 21, 1841; Sally, a daughter, died on August 8, 1841; Polly, a
                    daughter, died on August 24, 1842; an infant daughter, without name, died on September 6, 1844;
                    David, a son, died on September 12, 1847. The wife and mother, Eliza Scott, at the age of
                    thirty-six, departed this life on August 30, 1854.
            Such were the beginnings of Clark Cemetery and of the political existence of Liberty and Beaver
                    Townships, all centering so largely around the life and activities of Crystal David William Scott
                    and the proposed settlement of Wyoming that he attempted to establish more than one hundred years
                        ago.
            Upon Scott's townsite of 1837, there stands a lone cabin of hewn black-oak logs, still in
                    regular use as a farm home.  It is one of the few remaining
                    examples of the sturdy construction of pioneer days, marking the spot that was once a center of
                    civic activity. The meeting house erected in 1839 was razed generations ago. What Scott denominated
                    "an elegant mill seat adjoining the town plat," on the banks of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , was widely known and the grounds about it were used for years for picnics. These
                    grounds remain undisturbed except for trees that have been felled from time to time for construction
                    purposes, and replaced by growths of new forest.
            In the year 1850, the three acres occupied by Clark Cemetery were deeded by John Layman and Margaret
                    Layman, his wife, the then owners, to the board of commissioners of White County, and the cemetery
                    has since been maintained as a public burying ground. In the rush of work-a-day lives, people should
                    not forget that in the confines of old cemeteries, there rest the remains of men and women who
                    contributed largely to the well-being of the communities in which they lived in the past. While in
                    numerous cases, families have taken care of their own cemetery lots, the task has been made
                    discouraging because other lots, often large in extent, have been totally neglected. Headstones are
                    allowed to fall and remain in a state of ruin, while the whole place is over-grown with weeds.2
            
            
               
                  2 The care of ancient cemeteries may well be viewed as a sacred and public
                        trust. With an aroused public interest. Clark Cemetery can be transformed into a suitable
                        memorial to the life and work of those sturdy pioneers who did so much to shape the future of
                        two counties. The same statement can no doubt be applied with equal force to many other
                        cemeteries. Is not the time ripe for a movement in this direction?
            
         
         
         
            Joshua Griffith: Pioneer Preacher
            ELLA PORTER GRIFFITH
            When my father, Joshua Griffith, was a child, he was called "Joshie." He never
                    tired of hearing his parents tell of the leave-taking from their 
                        Virginia
                     home; of the trip over mountains and through dense forests; of crossing the 
                        Ohio
                     and going on to Marietta, where they spent the winter or 1800-1801. Glowing reports of
                    the fertile land of 
                        Kentucky
                     lured them to that State, and taking a trail north of the 
                        Ohio
                     River they crossed that stream to Limestone (Maysville) 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            The trip in covered wagon through the sparsely settled state was visualized by
                    "Joshie" as his mother related the experiences crossing creeks, camping by night
                    along the way, driving over hills and rough roads until they reached 
                        Shelbyville
                    . At this place, they purchased land. The deed was made out to "William J.
                    Griffith and Wife—to have and to hold." Here my grandparents built a home and
                    other buildings were added. The land was cleared and fenced. After this, came evidence to them that
                    the deed was worthless.
            In the meantime, word had come from southern Indiana relatives telling of productive land and
                    pleasant surroundings. The Griffiths, discouraged but ambitious, decided to go thither and wended
                    their way to the 
                        Ohio
                     River. They arrived at the home of a Mr. Maclntire, the boatman, on a gray, cold Autumn
                    morning and called to this river-man: "Come and set us across." The response came,
                    "I'm eating breakfast; you'll have to wait." The impatient
                    travelerurged, "I can't wait; I'm in a hurry." To which the
                    boatman retorted, "Then go around." Grandfather waited.
            The foregoing conversation took place on the site where Carrollton is now located. However, the
                    crossing was made and in a day or two they arrived at the home of Uncle John Sigmon on Parks Ridge (
                        Switzerland
                     County). Immediate steps were taken to purchase land; which resulted in securing the
                    farm now beautifully located on the 
                        Vevay
                     and Moorefield road, six and one half miles from 
                        Vevay
                    . This farm was owned by the Griffith heirs for more than one hundred years. The first
                    home was built in time for the family to eat Christmas dinner there in 1817. Each lap of  their travels as told to "Joshie" was as interesting
                    to him as a tale from a child's storybook.
            About 1820, a more commodious home was erected. This was two stories high, though of log
                    construction. It was ceiled and weather-boarded. A great stone chimney with double fireplace
                    separated the kitchen and living room, with a hallway on one side and a kennel with an outside door
                    on the other side. The fireplace in the living-room was the largest I have ever seen and the mantle
                    over it the tallest. Even in mature years I was unable to see on top of it when I tip-toed.
            There was space on the second floor for three bedrooms; a winding stairway almost fan-shaped ascended
                    from the kitchen. On the turn, these steps were so narrow as to afford only a toe-hold and yet when
                    Susan, the family "hiredgirl," was to be married, she marched down the steps
                    arm-in-arm with the husband to-be. Wainscoting, painted dark green, adorned the living room and
                    downstairs bedroom. All other ceilings and walls were white. Each room had one window of twelve
                    panes, and white ash floors. Conveniently near was the covered well with windlass and old oaken
                    bucket, inviting travelers to quench their thirst. Typical of that time, there were rows of
                    gooseberry and currant bushes, clumps of sage, horseradish and rhubarb—with an abundance
                    of fruit trees. Surrounding the yard was a white picket fence with a stile by the gateway for ladies
                    to ascend in order to mount their horses. This was a home in which many guests were welcomed and
                    fed. Some of them were prosperous, more of them humble. Many were worthy—others perhaps
                    not.
            It was in this home that my father, the youngest child of William and Catherine Griffith, was born on
                    December 11, 1823. He was appropriately named Joshua after the Bible leader. From his casual
                    conversations of Iater years, his children glimpsed a few pictures of his childhood, which proved
                    that girls and boys of that day were not unlike those of the present time.
            His God-fearing parents who were of more than ordinary culture adhered strictly to the habit of
                    church attendance and their counsel was respected by their children. However, at a tender age, when
                    the service seemed unduly long one Sunday, "Joshie" suddenly rose and said:
                    "I'm tired and  I'm going home for
                    Nancy is making me some sweetcakes." A few years later when he was allowed to sit with his
                    brothers in the gallery one Sunday, the episode of two little lads trading (exchanging) trousers
                    took place. His mirth was so great that he was demoted to a seat with his parents for many
                    succeeding Sundays.1
            
            Not at that time, nor for many years thereafter, were Sunday Schools connected with Church. But there
                    was an independent one near the present Todd home, two miles from the Griffith place.
                    "Joshie," about five years of age, with his big brothers, Tom and John, ventured
                    there one Sunday. The trip going was pleastant—with stretches of woodland along the way,
                    birds singing, squirrels darting up before them and above all the sense of a new adventure. How
                    different the return ! The sun blazed out and the way seemed long and dreary to the little lad who
                    had so bravely gone over the same road two hours before. "Joshie" began to
                    whimper, which induced Tom to threaten him with a spanking. But John, who was a natural manager of
                    men, said: "No wonder you are tired, ‘Joshie,’ after this long walk.
                    What you need is a fine horse to ride." Cutting a long, straight sprout, he handed it to
                    the little boy, with the advice, "Ride it, but be careful; he's a fractious
                    animal." "Joshie" bestrode the make-believe horse and in spite of its
                    rearing, balking and plunging, reached home happy and alert.
            Other reasons were apparent why Tom was ready with threats of spanking. One was that his little
                    brother would smuggle apples to bed, placing them under his pillow, then when all was silent and Tom
                    was supposed to be asleep, the champing began. The commotion was sufficient to arouse Tom and also
                    his temper.
            About all of his childish failings, my father talked freely, but a knowledge of his many kind and
                    unselfish acts had to be learned from others. One vivid mental picture that I formed from his
                    reminiscences has remained with me. A beloved married sister had passed away, and the boy stood at
                    the gate looking sadly after his mother as she rode away to the stricken house. In the distance, a
                    dove was calling and the plaintive notes found lodgement in the little fellow's heart. Even
                    in his last years, the cooing of a dove always 
                  
                     1 See Ella Porter Griffith, The Long Run Baptist Church," Indiana Magazine of History (Sept., 1936), XBXI, 204-212.
               
                     carried Joshua Griffith to that morning long gone by. Today,
                    more than a hundred years since the death of Aunt Mary, the notes of a dove bring to me the picture
                    of the lad alonewith his first grief.
            My grandfather, William J. Griffith, never lost an opportunity to encourage and patronize teachers in
                    his community. In the early twenties of the past century a school-house was built on his place. A
                    Mr. Bell of 
                        Philadelphia
                     came to take charge, bringing with him his young wife. But the lonely country with its
                    croaking frogs, hooting owls and rasping insects proved too much for the city-nurtured bride, and
                    after one term they returned to their eastern home.
            "Joshie" was too young to attend this school but his brothers and sisters were
                    pupils. Others attending were John, Jessie and Joshua Coleman, Hester Parkinson and the children of
                    William Lewis. "Joshie's" first teacher was a Mr. Rouse, who taught in
                    his own home on the farm, after-wards purchased for the 
                  
                            Switzerland
                         County Infirmary. The Rouse home was about two and one-half miles south of the
                    Griffith farm. Mr. Griffith went along with his children the first day to blaze a trail.
            The schoolroom served a three-fold purpose, for in addition to educational activities it was used as
                    a living and bedroom. "Joshie's" favorite seat was on the foot of the
                    bed. This was not only a restful place, but by turning back the covers it provided a safe cache for
                    his apples and for the picture books which Mr. Rouse loaned him. One day during this period was
                    indelibly stamped on his memory. The teacher had told the children on the previous afternoon that
                    the next day they would see a total eclipse of the sun. "Joshie" was almost too
                    excited to sleep. While he was hastily eating breakfast, his mother said, "You need not go
                    to school today, ‘Joshie.’ " "Not go to school?"
                    "But I'll have to go to see the eclipse in Mr. Rouse's Hollow."
                    Then it was explained that the darkness would be everywhere and could be seen at home. Moreover,
                    they were afraid the eclipse might overtake him on his way to or from school.
            Another teacher of "Joshie's" early years was Dr. Curry, a very
                    intelligent but eccentric gentleman. One day at this school, "Joshie" became sick
                    and complained of stomachache. Dr. Curry gave him some kind words and also a sweet liquid which,
                    whatever its medicinal value, was pleasant  to the taste and
                    thereafter there were frequent attacks of the same malady.
            Later a schoolhouse was built on the Griffith farm across from the Long Run Baptist Church.
                    "Joshie" with his brothers and sisters attended school there several terms.
            When this building was abandoned, my grandfather gave the site on which it stood and some adjoining
                    land for a cemetery
            When Joshua grew older he decided to teach. With additional help from brothers and sisters he had
                    become possessed of more than ordinary education. His first examination was to be taken in 
                        Madison
                    . One may imagine that he felt a bit of pride as he rode along in the early morning
                    towards that city. And why not, His English was faultless, his knowledge of mathematics unusual,
                    while his penmanship—and this was true even in old age—was like copperplate
                    engraving. His general information was broad and he knew the Scriptures from cover to cover. Such an
                    array of learning from a mere youth might well surprise the examiner. So with thoughts of the fine
                    papers he would hand in, but with a nervous tremor for the new experience, he reached the office of
                    that official and was shown in. "Let me see some of your handwriting," said the
                    examiner. Father wrote his own name on a slip of paper and presented it. "License
                    granted," announced the official. Astonished, but happy, father journeyed home-ward. His
                    teaching experience covered several terms in 
                        Switzerland
                     and Jefferson Counties in the eighteen forties and early fifties.
            With such devout parents, it is not surprising that the young man's thoughts early turned to
                    the ministry. When about eighteen years of age, he passed an examination given by the deacons, and
                    was ordained at the 
                        Milton
                     Baptist Church in 
                        Jefferson County
                    . From that time until his passing at the age of eighty-one, he was actively engaged in
                    the ministry, occupying pulpits in 
                        Switzerland
                     and Jefferson counties. He also held a few charges in 
                        Kentucky
                    . His pastorate at Long Run Church, which his parents had helped to establish and in
                    which he received his early inspiration, lasted more than fifty years.
            The marriage of Joshua Griffith to Caroline M. Vernon, daughter of a prominent citizen of 
                        Jefferson County
                    , took place in October of 1848. Her interest in church and family life was ever a help
                    and encouragement to her husband.  This companionship lasted
                    fifty-six years—until his death.
            Usually the country churches at that time had services only once, or at most twice, monthly affording
                    the minister opportunity for serving two or more churches. In this way, my father acquired a wide
                    acquaintance since he served almost every church in Long Run Association. Nor were his activities
                    limited to Baptists. There was scarcely a family of any creed within a radius of several miles that
                    he did not at some time visit or for whom he did not perform an act of sympathy.
            Never was the weather too severe for him to respond to a call for his services. One New
                    Year's Day, January 1, 1864, which was referred to as the coldest in history, father was
                    expected to conduct funeral services for young David Danner (nephew of Mr. and Mrs. Sol Wright) at
                    Ghent. "Surely," mother thought, "he will not venture out
                    to-day." However, father had no other thought than to respond to the wishes of old-time
                    friends and moreover, he planned to walk as this was almost the only way to keep from freezing. The
                    trip was made, the service performed and the round trip of thirteen miles on foot brought him home
                    with frozen ears to serve as a reminder for many years.
            One of his long to-be remembered experiences occurred during a flood in the 1880's He had
                    been called to conduct funeral services for a child in the upper part of the county. With no thought
                    for his own comfort nor for the danger to be incurred in crossing swollen streams, he set forth in
                    the driving rain. At only one place, the old covered bridge over Indian Creek on the 
                        Vevay
                     and Moorefield pike, did he pause to question what he should do. The water was well up
                    over the floor of the bridge, which at best, owing to the age of the structure, seemed none too
                    secure. To cross was a risk; yet he made the venture successfully, went on his way and arrived at
                    his destination in good time.
            After the services, one of his friends invited him to spend the night at his home. Since he was
                    weary, he consented to do this, agreeing the more readily when he noticed that the rain had ceased
                    and the skies gave signs of clearing. He hoped that "against morning" not only
                    would he be rested, but also that the streams would have had time to run down. His rest, however,
                    was destined to be very short. About ten o'clock, he was aroused by a downpour of rain on
                    the roof  which seemed momentarily to increase in violence.
                    Convinced that if he were able to cross the bridge at all, he must do so before morning, he arose,
                    dressed hastily, and, after calling to his host that he was leaving, fared forth into the night.
                    When he reached the covered bridge and started to cross, he found that it was indeed hazardous.
                    There was no light to be seen and the drumming of the rain on the roof and swirling waters beneath,
                    through which his horse was floundering, might well have daunted a more timid soul. But again he
                    made the crossing—perhaps the last man to cross that antiquated structure—for
                    in the morning a passer-by brought word that the bridge had been floated from its bearings and was
                    so badly damaged that a new bridge was. necessary.
            Not all of his duties were sad ones, for many sought his services in tying the nuptial knot. The
                    marriage record in 
                        Switzerland
                     County alone shows in the neighborhood of 1700 weddings at which he officiated. Beside
                    these there were many from adjoining counties as well as from 
                        Kentucky
                     who came to him to be married. There were fifty- two people named McKay for whom he
                    performed the ceremony. He was always pleased when the bride or groom, or both, were children of
                    parents whom he had married years before. In one family, he officiated for three generations.
            He was ambitious for his children to make a success of their lives. They were provided with the
                    necessaries, comforts and many of the luxuries. Few families had as much money to spend for books,
                    schooling and college courses. Both by example and by precept, his children were taught to respect
                    the rights and the feelings of others.
            His home was always a hospitable one. There were those who came bringing their troubles of this
                    world, seeking advice. One of these an elderly widow came often, seasoning her talk with such words
                    and expressions as "replevin" and "garnishee" and
                    "having the law" on certain parties. I remember father talked so calmly and
                    convincingly to her that the court was never needed to settle her difficulties. Others came seeking
                    spiritual comfort and still others were social visitors in our home. Some of these I recall while
                    others have been so vividly described to me that I seem to have known them. "Aunt"
                    Hester Winslow (the title is by courtesy) occupied an important place in  our family life, coming at regular intervals to help my mother. She was
                    redheaded and very Irish; yet she knew exactly what she wanted as my elder brothers and sisters soon
                    found out. Both of my parents had the greatest regard for her and although the children were wont to
                    "speed her departing" it was only to look eagerly forward to her next coming.
            One much welcomed guest who came often on Saturday on her way to attend Church-Meeting, was
                    "Aunt" Polly Wright, who in her youth was said to have walked every step of the
                    way with other immigrants from 
                        North Carolina
                     to southern Indiana. She never failed to bring something for the children if only a
                    biscuit, a pear or an apple. On one occasion she had a rare gift—a pullet with ten toes.
                    When we sold our old place in 1926, we still had an occasional ten-toed chicken.
            Father was very fond of music. Outside of religious music, he liked best "My Old 
                        Kentucky
                     Home" and "Annie Laurie," but none of his daughters could
                    sing them to please him as well as could Aunt Liza (mother's sister). The Ogle family, who
                    were all musical, came at times to our home. When they were there, the afternoon was spent in music
                    at which time my father's pleasant baritone voice joined in the singing. Sometimes I used
                    to wonder why it was that he would cry over well loved music—now I think I understand.
            Mr. and Mrs. J. L. Thiebaud (pronounced Tabo) were among other visitors to our home. Mr. Thiebaud was
                    a typical French gentleman always immaculately dressed and as I remember, never out without a cane
                    and a rose in his hand. Then there were our neighbors, so much a part of the happiness of our
                    family, Dr. and Mrs. Purdy, who were 
                        New England
                     intellectuals. The Doctor was our family physician, and Mrs. Purdy conducted a private
                    school which my older brothers and sisters attended The Robert Sharps were known for their
                    liberality, for their roof usually sheltered some one less fortunate than themselves. One never had
                    better neighbors. Joseph Clements and family were also neighbors of long standing. Mrs. Clements was
                    set apart from usual women in that, while she was an excellent housewife, she seldom talked about
                    domestic affairs. She was fond of reading and her conversation showed a knowledge  of Emerson, Swedenborgen and current literature. In a letter written in
                    her later years to my eldest sister, she said: "Your father and I have been neighbors for
                    more than sixty years and I know of no one that I would rather have for a neighbor in the great
                    Hereafter than him." This, I consider a supreme compliment.
            John F. Cotton and his son Perry were frequent visitors at both our town home and at "The
                    Place," as father always called the farm. The elder Cotton, I remember as a little, bent
                    man with shrewd eyes who wore a silk hat, but who addressed our revered mother as
                    "Sis" which made us feel that he was a privileged person. His son, Perry, was a
                    large, dignified man and a power in the community. Father valued the friendship of this man and his
                    son. When together, their conversation took on a political aspect, ratherheated on the part of the
                    elder Cotton, who was a Republican, and milder though no less determined on the part of my father,
                    who was a Democrat. Neither one was ever convinced, but each found the views of the other of
                    interest. All these, besides members of my father's Churches, visiting clergymen and
                    others, gave variety to the home life, and their visits were a source of delight to my father and
                    mother
            In speech, my father was always temperate. Simplicity marked his expressions. For example, he would
                    often say of a young man, "He is unassuming;" of some woman, "She has
                    discretion;" of another person, "He works well and is inoffensive," or,
                    "His word is good." To-day, I can recall a man, Joshua Griffith, of whom one could
                    say: "He was kind; he was intelligent; he had sound judgment; and you could trust
                    him." That man I was proud to call "Father."
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society COMMITTEES
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            The work of the Indiana Historical Society is done in a large measure by committees. The Executive
                    Committee consists of the officers of the Society and five other elected members. For the year 1940,
                    it is constituted as follows: Lee Burns, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , chairman; Mrs. W. W. Gaar, 
                        Richmond
                    ; Albert L. Kohlmeier, 
                        Bloomington
                    ; Cornelius O'Brien, 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    ; Hal C. Phelps, Peru; and the officers of the Society (Eli Lilly, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , president; Dr. Richard B. Wetherill,1
                    
                        Lafayette
                    , first vice-president; Mrs. Harvey Morris, 
                        Salem
                    , second vice-president; Wylie J. Daniels, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , third vice-president; John G. Rauch, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , treasurer, and Christopher B. Coleman, secretary). The duties of this committee, as
                    set forth in the Constitution, "shall be to meet on the days upon which the Society holds
                    its sessions or at such other times as they deem expedient; to select subjects for public lectures
                    and appoint the individuals by whom the same shall be delivered at the annual meetings of the
                    Society; to attend to the publication of such lectures and other documents as they may deem
                    expedient; to take charge of all books, papers, specimens; models, curiosities, pictures, etc.,
                    belonging to the Society, and to submit reports of their proceedings at the meetings of the
                    Society."
            A committee on gifts and bequests was created in 1939. The Society has in the past received several
                    bequests which were unsolicited—until the probation of the donors' wills,
                    unknown to the Society. On the other hand, of course, it has shared the universal experience of
                    benevolent and learned societies in not receiving bequests which it had been led to expect. The
                    existence of a committee on gifts and bequests, it is hoped, will increase the consideration of the
                    Society by possible benefactors and by persons making their wills. The committee on gifts and
                    bequests for 1940 consists of Emsley W. Johnson, chairman, Fred C. Gause, Joseph J. Daniels, Grier
                    M. Shotwell and William H. Wemmer, all of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            The committee on genealogy, which has contributed substantially to the general interest in genealogy
                    and to the support of "Indiana Genealogy" in the Indiana Magazine of
                    
                  
                     1 Dr. Wetherill died since this article was printed
               
                    
                    History, for the current year consists of Mrs. Ora W. Lesh, chairman, Mrs. Henry
                    C. Atkins, Mrs. O. N. Torian, Frank B. Fowler, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and Mrs. Allen F. Joseph, of 
                        Jasper
                    .
            The officers of the Indiana History Teachers Association act as a committee of the Indiana Historical
                    Society. They are: Andrew W. Cordier, 
                        Manchester
                     College, president; Mrs. Sadie Bacon Hatcher, Forest Park School, 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , vice-president; Mary Elizabeth Moore, Arsenal Technical High School, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , secretary-treasurer; and Russell T. Mc-Nutt, Central High School, 
                        Muncie
                    , Kenneth V. Thurston, Indiana University School, 
                        Bloomington
                    , N. E. Winfrey, Central Normal School, 
                        Danville
                    , Alberta Cannon, 
                        Vincennes
                     High School, and Opal Humphreys, 
                        Aurora
                     High School, members of the executive committee. This association is made up of
                    high-school and college teachers interested in promoting the study of history and the discussion of
                    its problems among Indiana teachers.2
            
            
               
                  2 In the next issue of the Indiana Magazine of History,
                        other committees of thesociety will be listed with a short account of their functions.
            
         
         
         
            Documents A TRIP FROM FORT WAYNE TO FORT DEARBORN IN 1809
            The letter and "Notes" reprinted below appeared in the Peru (Indiana) Saturday Gazette on August 10, 1839. The letter, written by J. M. D. on August 5, 1839, is
                    reproduced because of the facts that it presents relative to the traveler who made the journey in
                    1809 and because of the views characteristic of the time in which the letter was written. The
                    "Notes," were taken on the trip from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to 
                        Fort Dearborn
                     in June 1809, by a pioneer of Piqua, 
                        Ohio
                    . This pioneer, by the name of Johnston, left the original manuscript with his son, J.
                    S. Johnston, who passed it on to J. M. D. The copy of the Peru newspaper containing the
                    "Notes," which were printed from the original, is on file in the Indiana State
                    Library. A photostat copy of the page carrying the "Notes" and the letter of J. M.
                    D. was kindly furnished to the Editor by the staff of the Indiana Division of the
                    Library.
            
                    NOTES
                    Taken on a Journey
                    From 
                            Fort Wayne
                         to 
                            Fort Dearborn
                        , in June, 1809
                    The general course of the road is something north of west. For about three miles the land is thin
                        and timbered with oak, until you reach Spy run, when immediately on crossing this stream a fine
                        bottom commences, which continues for some distance; the timber here is generally sugartree,
                        buckeye and hickory, all of a very large growth. Twelve miles further is Eel river, a tributary
                        of the 
                            Wabash
                        .’ This uncommon little stream is very deep; and at the distance of ten
                        miles on a direct line, and about seventeen by the meanderings of the stream from its source, it
                        is not more than five yards wide and is generally three feet deep, with an uncommonly slow
                        current. The land on this river is remarkably rich and appears to be well adapted to the culture
                        of wheat or hemp. There are but few situations in this region where mills could be placed, owing
                        to the levelness of the land, as all the rivers have their sources in swamps and ponds, and as
                        there are but few springs in the upper country, that is, on the high land which divides the
                        waters of the Lakes from those of the 
                            Ohio
                        . Passing on westward you travel through a fine, rich, level country, which bears
                        evident marks of having been under water at some former period. Fifteen miles from 
                     
                        1 This Eel River flows into the 
                                    Wabash
                                 at 
                                    Logansport
                                . It should be remembered that Indiana has another Eel
                                River that flows into the Wert Fork of White River at
                                Worthington.
                  
                         Eel river you come to the little Lakes.2
                        Here is one of the most enchanting prospects my eyes ever beheld. The traveller after passing
                        through a country somewhat broken for a few miles, is immediately struck with the sight of two
                        most beautiful sheets of water, as pure and limpid as the mountain spring. They are about
                        one-fourth of a mile apart. On the bank of the most westerly one I encamped for the night. The
                        borders of these Lakes are so low, that the waves often roll out upon the bushes. I perceived a
                        number of fishes playing in the lake near the shore where the water is not more than a foot
                        deep. I took my pistols, went in ten or fifteen yards and shot several ring eyed perch. Indeed
                        they were so tame that they came close to me, as if wondering at the new master that had got
                        among them. At the outlet of this lake I think there might be a mill placed. The lake I should
                        think covers about one hundred acres of land. The outlet is from the east—from thence
                        it runs about half a mile along the side of a small ridge which divides it from the other lake.
                        It then turns suddenly round to the N. E. and passes through a break in the ridge, and is merged
                        into the other, and the waters of these two beautiful likes are mingled into one. In these
                        narrows or outlets the current is very swift—and as it would be a very easy matter to
                        form a canal for a mill, it might be taken out so high as to obtain three or four feet fall. And
                        there is a sufficiency of water to drive ten run of mill stones, if it could all be brought to
                        act upon them. The soil in the vicinity of these lakes is well adapted to the cultivation of
                        wheat or any kind of small grain. The timber is chiefly white and spanish oak, with some
                        chestnut oak. The land is a mixture of sand and clay, and in some places a deep black soil
                        something like river bottom. Eighteen miles further and you come to the 
                            Elkhart
                         river, a branch of the 
                            St. Joseph
                         of 
                            Michigan
                        . For eight miles before you reach this river, you pass through a thicket of young
                        hickory and oaks, about as thick as a man's thumb, and growing so close together that
                        it is impossible to penetrate through it at any other place except where the road runs. This
                        land is as rich as any in 
                            Kentucky
                        , and there is not a doubt but that it would prove as fruitful if cultivated.
                        Immediately after crossing the river, which is here about fifty yards wide, a most delightful
                        prospect is presented to view—there is scarcely one tree to the acre of ground for
                        about three miles. Here is an Indian town containing about twenty houses. This village is the
                        place of residence of one of the principal chiefs of the Pottawattamies—his name is
                        Five Medals. This place is beautifully situated on the edge of a fine prairie containing about
                        three thousand acres. About a mile west of this prairie the road comes to the bank of the river,
                        where I found a spring of excellent water, a thing that is very rare in this country. Here the
                        timber is tall and thick on the ground and principally white oak. The soil is white clay.
                        Fourteen miles further is the junction of the 
                            Elkhart
                         and 
                            St. Joseph
                        . Here is a place formed by nature for a
                        
                     
                        2 In general, the traveler passed northwestward from 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                 to the junctionof the 
                                    Elkhart
                                 and 
                                    St. Joseph
                                 rivers. He must have crossed Eel River above Co-
                                lumbia City. The two lakes described were probably in the southwestern part of what is
                                now Noble County, a little way south of Albion.
                  
                         town.3 About half a mile from [above]
                        the forks [junction], these rivers approach within sixty yards of each other. They then separate
                        and form something like an oval piece of ground of nearly one hundred acres, until it comes to
                        lo* bottom, which appears to be somewhat marshy. This bottom contains about fifty
                        acres, which I suppose is occasionally overflowed. 
                            Bath
                         these streams are navigable, without any kind of falls, almost to their sources.
                        From the junction down to the Lake, about sixty miles by water, [the 
                            St. Joseph
                        ] may be navigated with any kind of small craft at any season. It has a deep channel
                        with a gentle current all the way. There is no situation in this country better
                            calculated for trade, than at the junction of the 
                                Elkhart
                             and 
                                St. Joseph
                            
                  . These two streams pass through the richest and dryest part of this
                        country; and I think it would e ban object with our government to make a settlement at this
                        place.
                    Ten miles down this river from the forks, is a portage of three miles west to the Theakiki
                        [Kankakee], a branch of the 
                            Illinois
                         river. Fifteen miles below the forks is a French trading house. There are abouty
                        twenty persons kept here for the purpose of trading with the Indians. These men in the winter
                        season, take each of them a load of goods and ascend some of the branches of the 
                            St. Joseph
                        —thence across the portages into the other rivers, and so on to the
                        Indian villages; where they continue until spring—from whence they then return with
                        their peltry. They all collect together in May and make up their packs, and then proceed down
                        the river into the lake and round to Michillimackinac. It will scarcely be believed that the men
                        perform a voyage of more than a thousand miles in bark canoes, heavy laden with packs, the
                        greater part of the way over a boisterous lake. The soil on the 
                            St. Joseph
                         river varies considerably, but there is none but what is equal to our third rate in 
                            Kentucky
                        , and has the advantage of being level. There are several fine springs in this part
                        of the country. At the factory [trading post] I was told that there were the remains of a
                        British Fort three miles below, and a fine orchard of apple trees. Twenty miles from the Fort,
                        at the mouth of the river, Iwas informed a trader had raised several crops of wheat which were
                        as good as could be produced any place.
                    I crossed the 
                            St. Joseph
                         river at the French Factory. Twelve miles west is an Indian village called
                        Terrecoupee. This town stands upon an eminence, and may be seen about seven miles. There is not
                        a tree to intercept the sight for a distance of nine miles. This prairie, I was informed,
                        extends to the 
                            Mississippi
                        , a distance of four hundred miles. From this village to Lake 
                            Michigan
                        , a distance of about forty miles, the land is about one half timbered and the
                        remainder prairie; but all of a good quality, except about four miles in the vicinity of the
                        lake, where it is very sandy. Here are some of the finest pine trees I ever saw. The road
                        strikes the lake at the most southerly end—at the mouth of the river Desma.
                    I think it is of the utmost importance to the 
                            United States
                        , to have this vast region of country settled with Americans as soon as postsible
                            
                     
                        3
                                
                                    Elkhart
                                , Indiana, occupies the site described. The junction of the 
                                    Elkhart
                                 andthe 
                                    St. Joseph
                                 is just off Main Street near the heart of the city.
                  
                         It may be said of that vast tract of country extending from
                        the mouth of the Miami of the Lakes4 to 
                            Detroit
                        , and round the peninsula between Lake Huron and 
                            Michigan
                        , and round the east end of the latter lake—thence to the mouth of the 
                            Chicago
                         river at Fort Dearbourn—thence with the 
                            Illinois
                         to the 
                            Mississippi
                        , and down that river until it strikes the line of the land purchased from the
                        Indians in the Territories, and up the 
                            Wabash
                         to 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , and down the Miami to Lake Erie. That about one half of the land is dry, with a
                        rich, level and productive soil. And that about one half of the other half may be divided
                        between marshes and prairies, which would support immense herds of cattle, at very little cost.
                        For it is a fact that salt can be had cheaper at 
                            Detroit
                         than it can be at 
                            Lexington
                        .
                    The east or rather the south eastern end of Lake 
                            Michigan
                         is bounded by a mountainof sand, about one hundred feet high.5
                        hill has been accumulating since the formation of the lake. The north west wind prevails here
                        the greater part of the year. This wind blowing over an extent of level country, not equalled in
                        the known world, acquires such force when it arrives at Lake 
                            Michigan
                        , that on a dry day it will raise such a cloud of sand as to completely darken the
                        air; which in time raised up a bank, and every storm has been adding to it, until the present.
                        This mountain is covered with a stunted growth of cedars and juniper trees. I presume there
                        might be as many juniper berries gathered here as would supply the 
                            United States
                         with that article. The body of this mountain is always changing. A severe storm
                        will make a break in the top, the regular wind then continues to deepen the breach. The sand is
                        carried back and deposited in the valley behind the hill, which in time becomes the foundation
                        of another mountain. The traveller will see in this country hundreds of these hills [sand dunes]
                        behind the mountain, the whole body of which is carried away in some places for several hundred
                        yards, and deposited behind, and the wind is constantly in motion, taking more and more until
                        the hill will change its place. The lake of course advancing as the bank recedes, so that there
                        is no doubt but that the water has gained considerably on the land. These mountains and hills
                        are not to be found on the west side of the lake. Ten miles along the lake from the point is the
                        mouth of the river Styx, so called on account of a large Indian burying ground. Some of the
                        corpse were in troughs raised up on forks ten feet high; others were folded up in bark and laid
                        on the ground with some sticks over them. There was at the head and foot of every grave, a post
                        upon which was a number of marks thus (x x) which I was informed designated the number of
                        persons they had killed in war. A single line thus (|) was the mark of prisoners they had taken.
                    The road still keeps along the beach of the lake—and twelve miles further is the mouth
                        of the Grand Calumic [Calumet]. Here the sand mountain ends. Twenty miles farther is the mouth
                        of the Little Calumic [Calumet]. These two rivers are of the greatest consequence to the traders
                        on the lake. They are both about twenty yards wide 
                     
                        4 The Maumee River was known as the "Miami of the
                                Lake" in the early period.
                     
                        5 The famous "Hoosier Slide."
                  
                         at their mouths and very deep. One, however, is considerably
                        longer than the other. There is a communication between these two streams, which in case of a
                        storm on the lake, the traders can run up one for several miles, and then cross over into the
                        other, and return down it again into the lake. It is twelve miles from the little Calumic to the
                        mouth of the 
                            Chicago
                         river. Here the 
                            United States
                         have erected a garrison for the protection of trade in this country. This garrison
                        does great honor to Capt. John Whistler, who planned and built it. It is the neatest and best
                        wooden garrison in the 
                            United States
                        . This place guards the entrance of the 
                            Chicago
                         river. Between this stream and the 
                            Illinois
                        , there is a direct communication by water. This river Des Plain [sic] which is one of the main forks of the Illinois, has its sourcenear the bank of the
                        lake. Nine miles from Fort Dearbourn it bears off to the west. At this bend there is a long pond
                        communicates with it. This pond runs about four miles eastward towards the lake, where it
                        terminates in a small creek, which flows into the 
                            Chicago
                         river. This creek is about two miles long, and in the spring of the year any kind
                        of craft may sail out of the lake into the 
                            Mississippi
                         without being unloaded. The 
                            United States
                         Factor at Fort Dearbourn measured the elevation of land between the lake and the
                        river Des Plains, and found it to be four feet on the Lake side, and five on the other. Thus by
                        digging a canal of nine feet deep, a passage could be had at any season of the year, from the
                        falls of Niagara to the mouth of the 
                            Mississippi
                        , without a single foot of land carriage. This canal would be about six miles long,
                        through a beautiful prairie. There is a quarry of limestone near this place, which would make
                        excellent casing for the canal.
                    While at 
                            Fort Dearborn
                        , I was informed that there were several boats at the Portage which would cross the
                        next day. I accordingly went in company with Mr. Varnum and Capt. Whistler's son to the
                        portage to see them pass over. The water at this time was low, it being about the twentieth of
                        June. The boats could not pass loaded; but I had the pleasure of seeing them sail out of the
                        river Des Plains into the Pond—thence thro' the creek before mentioned into
                        the 
                            Chicago
                         river. The loading was carried over the portage in wagons, and again put into the
                        boats at the head of the 
                            Chicago
                        . There is a custom house kept at Fort Dearbourn, where all traders are obliged to
                        make an entry of their goods.
                    The public officers stationed here are Maj. Charles Jewitt, agent for Indian affairs; Mr. Geo. B.
                        Varnum, Factor and Commissary; Capt. John Whistler, Commandant; and Lieutenants 
                            Hamilton
                         and Thompson. There are about sixty soldiers in this garrison, and so healthy has
                        been the place that Capt. Whistler informed me he had not lost but six men in nearly eight
                        years. And he has the same men now who built the Fort—although their time of service
                        expired, they all again enlisted—an evidence that he is a good officer and worthy of
                        his trust.
                    Fort Dearbourn is beautifully situated on the bank of the Lake. It is bounded on the land side by
                        an extensive 
                            Prairie
                        , interspersed with groves of trees, which gives it a delightful and picturesque
                        appearance.  This lake abounds with fish of an excellent
                        quality. The White fish are caught here in great abundance. These are probably the best fresh
                        water fish in the American waters. The surge of the lake beating always against the shore,
                        frequently throws out large fish on the sand. I took up several Perch and Pickerel that would
                        weigh ten pounds—some of them alive; but the beach is frequented by flocks of crows,
                        buzzards, gulls, etc., which soon devour them as fast as they are thrown upon the shore.
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        For the Peru Gazette.
                        
                        
                           Messrs. Banks & Scott—
                        Through the politeness of my friend J. S. Johnston Esq., of Piqua, 
                                        Ohio
                                    , I have been favored with the original manuscript copy of the following
                                    "notes taken on a journey from 
                                        Fort Wayne
                                     to Fort Dearbourn (now 
                                        Chicago
                                    ), in 1809," more than thirty years ago, by his father, a
                                    worthy, respectable and enterprising man, then a resident of 
                                        Kentucky
                                    —who afterwards removed to 
                                        Ohio
                                     and located in Piqua, then a small frontier village, bordering upon the
                                    wilderness-but which has since become one of the most beautiful and flourishing
                                    towns in the northwestern part of the State.
                        The author of these sketches was not permitted to behold the onward march of the
                                    "Star of Empire," over this wild and lovely region which he has so
                                    beautifully and accurately described. He has long since passed to that
                                    "bourne from whence no traveller returns." The "all pervading spirit of modern enterprise," which has
                                    since wrought such a wondrous and magic-like change upon this fair portion of our
                                    happy land—transforming the wilderness and the uncultivated prairies into
                                    luxuriant fields and blooming gardens—had but just begun to penetrate
                                    these wilds, when he was required to bid adieu to, and forever close his eyes upon
                                    all terrestrial objects. Could he be permitted to revisit this country, and
                                    capacitated to realize the mighty changes which thirty years have brought over it;
                                    and behold instead of a howling wilderness, inhabited only by savages and wild
                                    beasts, a beautiful and highly cultivated country, with its farms, forges, mills,
                                    villages and cities; all teeming with an industrious, enterprising and happy
                                    population of more than half a million of souls—he would doubtless be
                                    struck with the utmost astonishment, and be led to exclaim that his most sanguine
                                    expectations did not anticipate the half.
                        Every individual who is acquainted with the country through which this gentleman
                                    passed; and who will observe the improvements that have since been made upon certain
                                    localities, will readily acknowledge his foresight and penetration, in the selection
                                    of the most important points for commercial facilities. 
                                        Fort Dearborn
                                    , the point upon which now stands the flourishing city of 
                                        Chicago
                                    , with its six or eight thou- sand inhabitants was then a distant
                                    military post, seldom visited except by a few itinerant traders. Now the white
                                    canvass of hundreds of schooners, brigs and steamers, is unfurled to every breeze,
                                    bearing away, over the bright bosom of the Lake, the products of our exuberant soil,
                                    and bringing in return the merchandise and luxuries of other climes.
                        There is not an individual who has travelled through the northern  part of our state, but who can fully appreciate the
                                    feelings of transport and delight which took possession of our traveller on
                                    approaching those chrystal [sic] lakes and lovely prairies, which
                                    abound in northern Indiana and 
                                        Michigan
                                    . I recollect the delightful impressions which these wild and lovely
                                    scenes produced upon me, when I first visited that beautiful region. They are still
                                    fresh and vivid, and indelibly fixed upon the tablet of my memory. I had travelled
                                    some distance through the lonely woods, and had fallen into rather a sombremood,
                                    when suddenly, as if by enchantment, that lovely and fascinating prairie, environed
                                    with its sylvan-like groves, at the crossing of 
                                        Elkhart
                                    , burst in upon my vision, transporting me with the most enrapturing
                                    sensations of delight—awakening and calling forth the most profound and
                                    ardent sentiments of admiration!
                        Believing that these notes may be somewhat interesting to many of your readers, I
                                    send you a copy for publication.
                        
                                    Yours respectfully,
                                    J. M. D.
                                
                        Peru, August 5th, 1839.
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Some College Boys Were Problems in 1848
            From the brief passage here reprinted, it would seem that fortune-favored young men who went to
                    college were sometimes har dto educate in days gone by, as has been occasionally true since 1848.
            
                    But boys brought up in affluence and in town, are in danger f knowing too much before they enter
                        college, and in quite as imminent danger of knowing too little when they leave. It is a
                        misfortune for the taste and the passions to get ahead of the understanding and the conscience;
                        for the graces of intellect to be matured before the intellect itself; for the gentleman to
                        anticipate the man… .
                
            
               
                  1 The above passage is quoted from an address delivered by Prof. C. B.
                        Haddock of Dartmouth College in Tremont Temple, 
                            Boston
                        , on May 81. 1848. The address was delivered under the auspices of the Society for
                        the Promotion of Collegiate and Theological Education at the west, and published in pamphlet
                        formsoon after its delivery by the Society.
            
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               Thomas Riley Marshall. By Charles M. Thomas. 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley Press, 
                  Oxford, Ohio
               , 1939. Pp. 296, $3.00.
            There was much of interest in the life of Thomas R. Marshall. A successful lawyer, as success was
                    rated in the small county seat of a rural county, he rose to be Governor of Indiana and
                    Vice-President of the 
                        United States
                    . He was a shrewd politician, and the possessor of a rather keen wit which he loved to
                    indulge. He had ideas of his own and was quite independent, sometimes to the point where he could be
                    called stubborn. He was honest and inclined to be frank in expressing himself. He was ambitious. He
                    possessed ability, though he was not a man of broad vision. The fates were kind to him while he
                    lived and have been kind to him in regard to his biographer, if it is true that a high class
                    biographer is one who tells a straight-forward, unvarnished story.
            Dr. Thomas has had access to the best sources of in-formation and he has used them intelligently and
                    with fairness. He tells the story of Marshall's life simply and naturally. Three short
                    chapters cover more than fifty years. After being graduated from 
                        Wabash
                     College in 1873, the "Country Lawyer" was scarcely heard of outside
                    of the congressional district in which he lived, for thirty long years. In this period, he practiced
                    law and enjoyed a fair income. He made many political speeches. He did not marry until he was past
                    forty. Undoubtedly Mrs. Marshall deserves great credit for his later successes. From college days
                    until after he was married, he used intoxicants. In 1898, he even took "the cure,"
                    a step which surely helped to make his later successes possible. His biographer has learned the
                    facts and has not suppressed them, which is well. Statements that have floated around Indiana for
                    years in regard to the habits of Marshall can now be checked and forgotten.
            The pre-convention campaign of 1908 was so skillfully conducted that Marshall was nominated for
                    governor in the Democratic state convention of that year to the surprise of the intelligent and able
                    Thomas Taggart. For an adequate explanation of this success of Marshall, regarded as some-thing of a
                    miracle in Indiana politics, the public has waited for more than thirty years. It can now be read in
                    chapters  four and five of the volume under review. The story of
                    the four-year term as Governor of Indiana is not marked by dramatic events. Marshall was considered
                    a radical by Indiana's confirmed conservatives, but he was a mild liberal, to say the most,
                    who did not veer farther to the left than the middle of the road. The author portrays him truthfully
                    as an executive who stands out well among the governors of his period.
            The strength and independence of Marshall, coupled with the sanity and political genius of Taggart
                    and the situation that developed in the 
                        Baltimore
                     Convention of 1912, brought about the placing of Marshall on the ticket with Woodrow
                    Wilson. Renominated with Wilson in 1916, Marshall served eight years as Vice-President. From the
                    beginning of the extremely serious illness of President Wilson in October, 1919, to March, 1921,
                    Marshall's post was a critical one. This was the most trying period of his public career,
                    and he acquitted himself well. It was not what he did but what he didn't do that revealed
                    elements of greatness in his make-up. Dr. Thomas has handled the last seventeen months of
                    Wilson's second term with skill and without bias.
            Marshall lived four rather uneventful years after he left the vice-presidential office, and a single
                    chapter suffices for these years. Like many other public men, he was more conservative after the
                    World War than before. Dr. Thomas says: "Marshall demonstrated a markedly growing
                    conservatism as his years advanced." If this affected his standing, it increased the
                    respect in which he was held in his home state. Much water has flowed under the bridge since the
                    death of Marshall in 1925, and he has been somewhat forgotten. Nevertheless, a reading of the
                    excellent biography which is now offered to the public will greatly interest numerous persons,
                    especially citizens of Indiana, to all of whom it is highly recommended by the reviewer.
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
         
         
            
               Home Missions on the American Frontier. By Colin B. Goodykoontz. The Caxton
                    Printers, Ltd., 
                  Caldwell, Idaho
               , 1939. Pp. 460. $3.50.
            Religion was a significant phase or condition of American frontier life. Religion was ever present on
                    the frontier —at times somnolscent and yet at other times explosives  as for example the Great Awakening at the middle of the eighteenth
                    century and the Great Revival which began in Logan County, 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1797.
            Many eastern states feared the rise of the New West, but, while realizing that they could not stem
                    the tide of the westward march, they felt they might at least guide its course. And so too did
                    eastern churches feel about those of their flocks who formed a part of the great exodus. They felt
                    the urgent need of saving their Western brethren from too much doctrinal and ritualistic heresy. One
                    method of control or of regulation was the organization of Home Mission Societies in the East for
                    the purpose of sending missionaries into the West, and it is to this subject that Professor Colin B.
                    Goodykoontz, a student of Turner, has directed his attention in the book under review.
            In this scholarly and interesting book, Professor Goodykoontz has emphasized the work of
                    Congregationalists and Presbyterians, but he has by no means overlooked the home missionary work of
                    other Protestant groups. Keeping in mind the chief reason for home missions, the author states that
                    the movement was the result of many forces, namely Christian idealism, denominational rivalries,
                    humanitarian-ism, nationalism, and, not least, enlightened self-interest. The movement resulted
                    shortly after the War of 1812 in the formation of numerous societies, examples of which were the
                    American Baptist Home Mission Society, Congregational Home Mission Society, Missionary Society of
                    the Methodist Episcopal Church, and the Society for the Promotion of Collegiate and Theological
                    Education in the West (S. P. C. T. E. W.)
            There is little question in the mind of the author but that the missionaries were generally
                    high-minded individuals whose sole effort was the advancement of Christianity, albeit particular
                    forms of it. Not infrequently, points out Goodykoontz, they were exponents of "muscular
                    Christianity." For example, Methodist Peter Cartwright with his adherents at a meeting in 
                        Ohio
                     bested a crowd of "lewd and base fellows, armed with dirks, clubs, knives, and
                    horsewhips."
            Indiana was within the field of home missionary work. Samuel J. Mills and John D. Schermerhorn,
                    representing the Missionary Societies of 
                        Connecticut
                     and 
                        Massachusetts
                    , made  Indiana a part of their survey in 1812-13. In
                    regard to 
                        Jefferson County
                    , Indiana, one missionary wrote in 1827:
                        The people are poor & far from market labouriously engaged in improving &
                            cultivating their new land. Society here is in an unformed state composed of persons from
                            every part of the Union… . Religious sects are numerous & blind guides
                            enough to swallow all the camels in Arabia—Some of these cant
                            read—Some labour to preach down the Sabbath— & others to rob
                                Christ of his divinity— … When shall this reign
                            of ignorance & error cease in the West?
                    
            
            From 
                        Spencer
                    , Indiana, came this report of 1831 from another missionary:
                        When I came here every thing was opposed to Presbyterians… . But the Lord blessed
                            our course, and let me tell you the Devil stole away all my sermons … but one day
                            I saw him at the door. I warned the congregation of the fact—then I gave the
                            people one of the plainist talks ever mortals heard… .
                    
            
            The book is the result of careful and painstaking scholarship, it is fully documented, and it is well
                    written. At the end is a twenty-four page bibliography and a good analytical index.
            It is not without interest to note that at the time of writing, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspaper is carrying a story on present work of the Home Missions Council. Its efforts
                    are directed toward the new American frontier element, namely, the migratory sharecroppers of the
                    South. Well might one ask: Was the frontier ever tamed?
            OSCAR OSBURN WINTHER
         
         
            
               William Salter: Western Torchbearer. By Philip D. 
                        Jordan
                    , The 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley Press, 
                  Oxford, Ohio
               , 1939. Pp. 273, $3.50.
            This book is the product of an author who seems to be well pleased with the choice of his subject,
                    and who is qualified to give readers his view of one of the Congregational ministers who labored in
                    the West. Dr. Jordan has previously published source material and articles on William Salter and
                    some of his associates. He has had access to the valuable William Salter manuscript collections in
                    the preparation of his work. With commendable objectivity and in a clear and subdued style, the
                    author gives brief but significant events of Salter's career and the evolving territory and
                    state of 
                        Iowa
                     in which he toiled for some sixty-seven years.
            William Salter, student at Andover Theological Seminary,  accepted
                    the challenge offered by the frontier, and, under the auspices of the American Home Missionary
                    Society, entered the raw territory of 
                        Iowa
                     in 1843 "to subdue the West to religious particularism." Tenacious of
                    his views and a born propagandist, he tried to introduce 
                        Puritan
                     ideals into a society that was saturated with indifference, intemperance, a lust for
                    land, and the spirit of expansion. Against these and all social wrongdoing, Salter struck vigorously
                    and often. Though comparatively unsuccessful, the leavening influence of his idealism was felt not
                    only in 
                  Burlington, Iowa
               , where he spent most of his ministry, but throughout the state.
            Salter was not only a clergyman, but also a leader in movements for educational institutions, an
                    author, and an amateur historian. To give the reader some idea of the span of Salter's life
                    the author states: "Salter was pointed out to children as the man with whom 
                        Iowa
                     grew up." He saw soldiers recruited for the Mexican War (to him a war of
                    conquest) and for the Civil War, taking part in the latter conflict as a delegate to the field under
                    the direction of the 
                        United States
                     Christian Commission. He lived through the period of the Spanish-American War and died
                    in 1910.
            It was difficult for the calm, unemotional religion of Congregationalism to attract as many followers
                    to its standard as did the highly emotionalized methods of the more evangelical sects. That it did
                    gain adherents in Iowa was due to the heroic efforts of Salter and men of his type. This the author
                    points out with a just respect for Congregational-ism and an equally fair treatment of the
                    accomplishments of competing denominations.
            With keen insight into the events and detail that go to make a biography, the author has given
                    readers interesting sketches of Salter's Andover classmates who also labored in 
                        Iowa
                    , as well as sidelights on modes of travel and commercial growth. Those who are
                    interested in the varied aspects of western social development will be well repaid for reading this
                    volume which portrays the work of a vigorous "Western Torchbearer."
            CECIL K. BYRD
         
         
            
               Simon Bolivar Buckner: Borderland Knight. By Arndt M. Stickles. The University
                    of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 
                        Chapel Hill
                    , 1940. Pp. xii, 446, illustrated, $3.50.
            
            General Buckner was a man of force and character whose life was colorful. In his early manhood, he
                    spent much time in the North and married into a northern family of considerable wealth. He lived for
                    a brief period in his native 
                        Kentucky
                     just before the Civil War. Nevertheless, he threw in his lot with the South and fought
                    with distinction for the Confederate cause. The people of 
                        Kentucky
                     being divided during the conflict, General Buckner was severely condemned by many
                    former friends. Choosing to spend the remainder of his life in the state where he was born, he was
                    one of the noted Kentuckians who worked at the task of healing the wounds left by four years of
                    bloody warfare which was indeed a brothers' war in the borderlands. In time, General
                    iuckner filled the office of Governor with honor to himself and the commonwealth—a
                    tangible demonstration that Kentuckians had solved the difficult problem of re-uniting the hosts who
                    had supported one side or the other or fought in the ranks of the Blue or the
                    Gray.
            The biography shows that Dr. Stickles has labored long and successfully with the excellent materials
                    that he was privileged to discover. He has treated the early life of Buckner in four short chapters,
                    and then the attempt of 
                        Kentucky
                     to remain neutral in 1861, in which Buckner played a conspicuous part. He has hurried
                    on to the War, to which he has given about half of the volume. The long period following 1865 is
                    dealt with in about one hundred and fifty pages. The entire story is written with clearness and
                    ample details are presented. The footnotes are adequate and printed where they can be of most
                    service to readers. There is a good bibliography and a good index. The work of the publisher is very
                    well done.
            The portions of the book that stand out are those dealing with Fort Donelson and the imprisonment of
                    General Buckner; with his period of exile in 
                        Louisiana
                     from 1865 to 1867; and with his election to the governorship of 
                        Kentucky
                    . Dr. Stickles is at his best as he deals with these phases of the career of Buckner.
                    The story of the fight for and surrender of Fort Donelson has never been so well told. The long
                    period during which Unionists and Confederates had to learn to live together again in Kentucky has
                    furnished a splendid subject for the author. Whether he has made the most of his opportunity or not,
                    Dr. Stickles has certainly written a  good history of these
                    years. One of the most difficult problems to handle while writing the biography of Buckner was to
                    set forth the real reasons why he became a Confederate. Lee went with 
                        Virginia
                    . Andrew Johnson refused to go with his state, and so did Buckner; but Johnson took his
                    stand with the Union, Buckner with the Confederacy. What were the springs of action in the case of
                    the "Borderland Knight"? One cannot feel that Dr. Stickles has solved this riddle.
                    Perhaps Simon Bolivar Buckner was not any too sure of himself in 1861. Possibly he just drifted into
                    the southern current. In conclusion, it must be said that anyone who does not read this life of
                    General Buckner will miss the study of a virile leader who played an interesting role in events of
                    great significance.
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
         
         
            
               Hannah Courageous is the story of a 
                        Quaker
                     girl, Hannah Nicholson, who lived in Indiana and arrived at young womanhood not long
                    before the Civil War. It reveals the opposition of her family to slavery but also the sanity and
                    spirit of tolerance that characterized its members. Hannah's brother Samuel loved Lucy
                    Carter, a young woman who lived in 
                        Kentucky
                     and had slaves to wait on her. The tale is one that involves fugitive slaves, slave
                    hunters, and an anti-slavery schoolmaster, as well as Friends who hated slavery. The characters are
                    well drawn, the natural humanity of the families is brought out, and, in spite of the disturbing
                    influence of the slavery question, sensible adjustments are made. It is a new kind of story of the
                    days when feeling ran high between people who held conflicting views in regard to slavery, but
                    possibly a more correct interpretation of the relations between those who were drawn into the
                    controversy than were the earlier more intense and more" tragic tales. The book is from the
                    pen of Laura Long, is published by Longmans, Green and Company and sells for $2.00.
            Professor Hugh Evander Willis of the Indiana University School of Law has prepared a pamphlet of
                    seventy-two pages which he calls The Constitution of the 
                            United States
                         at the End of One Hundred Fifty Years. In addition to the Constitution as it
                    came from the Federal Convention, not only the regular amendments are included, but also the
                    features  added by constitution-making decisions of the Supreme
                    Court of the 
                        United States
                    . To present the contributions of the Court to the Constitution is the real purpose of
                    the pamphlet. Professor Willis sets forth his own views of the importance of the Court as an agency
                    in making over and determining the nature of the Constitution as it really is in a twenty-page
                    "Introduction."
            It would seem that Congress has done a great deal to determine the actual constitution by enacting
                    laws, but Professor Willis ignores this factor. Certainly all laws required by the Constitution to
                    create the machinery of government, no matter when passed, are but amplifications of the writ-ten
                    Constitution. In addition, any act of Congress passed on the basis of a liberal interpretation of
                    the written Constitution, and not later held invalid by the Supreme Court, adds something to the
                    organic law. Further, the government of the 
                        United States
                     is operated by political parties and all of that vast portion of the unwritten
                    constitution which is due to the growth and work of parties is as truly a part of the real
                    constitution as what has been added by the Court. The pamphlet of Professor Willis indicates a move
                    in the right direction, but why not include as well other significant features that have been
                    engrafted on the written document? The last paragraph of the "Introduction" to
                    this pamphlet is very interesting, but not every serious minded student of the government of the 
                        United States
                     will subscribe to the extreme eulogism of the Supreme Court there to be found. It is
                    possible to present very strong arguments against the principal assertions contained in this
                    paragraph.
            The pamphlet is a publication of Indiana University, Social Science Series, No. 1. It is for sale by
                    the Indiana University Book Store at seventy-five cents per copy.
            The following volumes have been received and will be reviewed in the next issue: The
                        Territorial Papers of the 
                            United States
                        , edited by Clarence E. Carter, vols. VII-VIII; Collections of the 
                            Illinois
                         State Historical Library, vol. XXX. The two volumes of Territorial Papers, present papers relating to Indiana Territory, 1800-1816. The volume
                    from the 
                        Illinois
                     Library is Pope's Digest, 1815, edited by Francis S.
                    Philbrick.
         
         
         
            Editor's Pages INDIANA A HUNDRED YEARS AGO
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
            By the calendar, only one hundred years have passed since 1840, but, in material civilization, there
                    have been more changes in the last century than in any previous span of a thousand years. True, the
                    industrial revolution passed through its first stages in the century preceding 1840, but it has
                    spread over civilized countries outside of 
                        England
                     mainly since that date. Certainly Indiana was a crude, young state a hundred years ago.
                    The total population was then 685,866. The largest city in the state was 
                        New Albany
                    , with 4,266 inhabitants. There were three other cities with a population above 2,000: 
                        Madison
                    , with 3,798; 
                        Indianapolis
                    , with 2,692; and 
                        Richmond
                    , with 2,070.
            There were eighty-seven counties in Indiana in 1840. So rapidly had these local units been set up,
                    that there were but five of the present number yet to be established. Only 
                        Wayne
                     County had over 20,000 people, 23,290, to be exact. Twenty-five counties had from
                    10,000 to 20,000, forty-nine from 2,000 to 10,000, and twelve under 2,000. The twelve, some of which
                    have since been divided, were: 
                  Bartholomew, DeKalb, Fulton, Huntington, Jasper
               ,
                    Lake, Marshall, 
                        Pulaski
                    , Stark, Wells, White, and 
                        Whitley
                    . All of the counties in this list were in the northern part of the state, save 
                        Bartholomew
                    . The public lands offices were still active, as there were several millions of acres of
                    government land yet to be sold in Indiana. In the year 1836, the banner year of the boom that
                    collapsed in 1837, more than four millions of acres of the public lands within the state were sold.
                    This means that about one fifth of the land in Indiana was reduced to private ownership for the
                    first time in the history of the world in a single year.
            The depression that followed in the wake of the panic of 1837 reached its worst in 1840 and 1841.
                    Prices were low, mortgage foreclosures were common, men were out of work, and the state government
                    could not sell bonds to obtain funds for the completion of the program of constructing public works
                    that had been authorized by the Internal Improvements measure of 1836 which was called the
                    "Mammoth Bill".
            
            The former governor of Indiana Territory, General William Henry Harrison, who now lived at North
                    Bend, 
                        Ohio
                    , was the candidate of the new Whig Party for the presidency. President Martin VanBuren
                    was the Democratic standard bearer. The enthusiastic Whigs, sung, shouted, and paraded their way to
                    victory, not only in Indiana but in the nation as well. They presented no program during the
                    spectacular and hilarious contest, but they did promise to bring prosperity to the public. The boom
                    that followed the War of 1812 collapsed in 1819. It was followed by a depression, and that, in turn,
                    by a slow and rather lean decade. From 1833 to 1836, the business tempo increased with surprising
                    speed. Banks multiplied, colonists flowed westward in enlarging numbers, speculation became rife,
                    and credit was extended to unheard of proportions. Business men believed that they had found a sure
                    and permanent basis for acquiring fortunes. After the collapse, there was a wide-spread belief that
                    the return of prosperitcy would come with the restoration of the "credit system."
                    Whigs and their backers among the business elements had no love for hard-money men or for the
                    Independent Treasury system, which was the offering of the VanBuren Administration in 1840.
            A century ago, there was hardship, want and misery in a land of plenty. The phenomenon of starvation
                    in the midst of abundance is not so new. That the problem of how to guard against recurring crises
                    is not easy of solution is very evident. In 1840, the method of proceedure was very simple. The
                    general belief was that good times would re-turn eventually. As a result of their sweeping victory
                    in 1840, Whigs obtained a control in both branches of Congress. Then, the party leaders revealed
                    that their policy was to abolish the new Independent Treasury system and restore the Bank of the 
                        United States
                    . After this, prosperity would quickly return. The repeal of the Treasury Act of 1840
                    was easy, but John Tyler blocked the enactment of a Bank measure. Neither in 1841 nor later were the
                    Whigs able to establish a new Bank of the 
                        United States
                    , consequently they never learned what might have come had they succeeded in carrying
                    out their "healing policy."
            In 1840, the crude machinery of finance and business management had stalled on the road, but thanks
                    to the resources of the country and the unquenchable belief in the future  that possessed the people, the obstacles to progress were overcome
                    under a laissez faire regime. A hundred years later, the far more complex machinery of business and
                    finance has failed to measure up to the needs of the time. Government activity has been greatly
                    extended. Many pressing problems remain to be solved. The question of the hour is: "Shall
                    business interests be given a free hand once more, or shall the people through their government have
                    to assert a much more complete control of production and distribution?" The people of
                    Indiana, no more than the people of the country as a whole, are ready to answer this question. A
                    study of conditions in 1840 and of the history of the century that has ensued ought to help
                    Americans to work out the problem. Surely the experiences of a hundred years should have taught some
                    lessons.
         
         
            
               Contributors: Walter B. Hendrickson lives in Blooming-ton, Indiana. The subject of
                    his doctoral dissertation at 
                        Harvard
                     University is David Dale Owen. Roscoe R. Leak lives at Lizton, Indiana. He contributed
                    an article on "
                        Salem
                     Methodist Church" to the issue of March, 1933. James W. Conlin is principal of
                    schools at Mecca, Indiana. Robert K. Stuart re-sides at The Orrington, 
                  Evanston, Illinois
               , and has a summer home on the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     near the Clark Cemetery in White County, Indiana. Miss Ella Porter Griffith lives at 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana. She contributed an article on "The Long Run Baptist Church"
                    to the issue of September, 1935. Dr. Oscar O. Winther is a member of the history faculty of Indiana
                    University. Cecil K. Byrd is a graduate student at Indiana University.
         
         
         
            Wanted
            We hope that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above
                    the regular rates will be paid.
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a serious need of more copies of the following
                    numbers, especially those marked with asterisks:
            
               
                  * Volume I, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1905).
               Volume II, 2, 4 (June, Dec., 1906).
               
                  * Volume III, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1907).
               Volume VII, 4 (Dec., 1911).
               
                  * Volume VIII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1912).
               
                  * Volume IX, 1 (March, 1913).
               
                  * Volume X, 1 (March, 1914).
               
                  * Volume XV II, 3, 4 (Sept., Dec., 1921).
               Volume XVIII, 1 (March, 1922).
               Volume XXII, 1, 4 (March, Dec., 1926).
            
            The Indiana University Library will appreciate a gift of the following issues of the National Geographic Magazine: vols. I-VI (1890-1896, twelve issues per year), IX (1898,
                    twelve issues); XV (1904, twelve issues).
            In 1930, The Indiana Magazine of History published a General Index for the first
                    twenty-five volumes (1905-1929). The Index was compiled by Dorothy Riker of the Indiana Historical
                    Bureau. Every library and every individual possessing a file of the Magazine for a
                    period covered by the General Index, or for any considerable portion of the
                    period, should have a copy. It is still possible to obtain copies at $1.00 each. Send
                    orders to the Indiana Magazine of History, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History may be obtained
                    by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as
                    many reprints of any article as may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the articles of which reprints are desired is
                    published.
         
         
         
         
            The Ancestry of John Hampden Holliday
            AUGUSTUS R. MARKLE
            In writing of any man, there is always much left out of the story, whether genealogy or biography is
                    the object, for in a biography we necessarily must take ancestry into account, and in genealogy the
                    mere parading across the page of a lot of names fails to bring into the picture the effect that
                    ancestors had in producing the man. There is not room in this department of the Magazine to set out many of the features of his life nor to do more than name those
                    forebears who had a part in determining the life and character of the man who became the first
                    president of the Society of Indiana Pioneers, John Hampden Holliday.
            Mr. Holliday was educated in the public schools of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and, after four years at the Northwestern Christian University, the predecessor of 
                        Butler
                     College, he entered 
                        Hanover
                     College where he was graduated in the Class of 1864. A little before his graduation, he
                    enlisted in the One Hundred Thirty-seventh Indiana, a hundred-day regiment, and served for four
                    months. He then re-enlisted in the Seventieth Indiana Infantry for three years, but was rejected by
                    the medical examiner. After a short experience in the practice of law, he began work with the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Gazette in 1866. In 1869, he founded a paper of his own, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     News, the first issue appearing on December 7, 1869.
            He retired from the News in 1892 and a year later helped organize the Union Trust
                    Company, of which he became the first president. He resigned in 1899 to found the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Press which had a short life, being sold a year and a half later to the News. Mr. Holliday then became president of the Union Trust Company again. In 1916, he
                    became Chairman of the Board of Directors and was for many years connected with other financial and
                    benevolent institutions of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            In 1875, Evaline M. Rieman of 
                        Baltimore
                     became the wife of Mr. Holliday and to this union were born seven children. In 1916,
                    Mr. and Mrs. Holliday presented to the City of 
                        Indianapolis
                     their beautiful eighty-acre country place on White River between
                    Crow's Nest and Broad Ripple, the city to have possession three years after the first of
                    March following the death of the survivor of the couple. In 
                    1920, Mr. Holliday announced the gift of $25,000 to the Emmerich Manual Training High
                    School in memory of his son, John Hampden Holliday, Jr., who was a graduate of this High School in
                    the Class of 1901. On December 23, 1917, the young man died while in army service at 
                        Washington
                    , D.C.
            The senior John Hampden Holliday was a charter member of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Literary Club; one of the founders of the Immigrants' Aid Association; long
                    the chairman of the Indiana State Conference of Charities and Corrections; and for many years a
                    ruling elder of the First Presbyterian Church and a trustee of the Presbyterian Synod
                        of Indiana. For forty-six years, he served as a trustee of 
                        Hanover
                     College, and, for a quarter of a century, as a trustee of McCormick Theological
                    Seminary. He was one of the founders of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Charity Organization Society, now the Family Welfare Society. He was a thirty-third
                    degree Ma-son and a member of Phi Gamma Delta. It was on October 20, 1921, at his country home near
                    Crow's Nest on White River, that John Hampden Holliday died, at the
                    age of seventy-five.
            Born on May 31, 1846, in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , to the Reverend William Adair Holliday and his wife Lucia Shaw Cruft, John H. Holliday
                    was the product of two widely dissimilar stocks. His father, the son of Samuel Holliday, was born in
                            
                  Harrison County, Kentucky
               , a few years before the removal of the family to Indiana in
                    1816. His mother was born in 
                        Boston
                     in 1805 and died in 1881.
            The grandfather, Samuel Holliday, was born in 1779 to William Holliday and Martha Patton. Of the
                    latter very little is known, but we know that William was born in Ire-land in 1755 and died in 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1812. His parents were Samuel Holliday, born in 1709, and Janet Adair. Samuel
                    Holliday, the grandfather of John Hampden Holliday, married Elizabeth Martin (1781-1846). She was
                    the daughter of Jacob Martin, a soldier in the Revolutionary War and his wife, Catherine Wilson.
            In so far as a man is what his mother makes him, the New 
                        England
                     ancestry of John Hampden Holliday had much to do with his life in later years, and it
                    is of this side of his family that the most is known.
            The mother of John H. Holliday was Lucia Shaw Cruft  (1805-1881).
                    Lucy was the daughter of John Cruft, who was born in 
                        Boston
                     in 1769, and was married in 1799 to Lucia Crocker Shaw (1772-1812). John Cruft died in
                    1839. John was the son of Foster Cruft (1734-1800) who was married in 1757 to Ann Breck (1738-1827).
                    Foster was the son of Edward Cruft (1690-1734) of 
                        Boston
                    , who was married in 1715 to Abigail Foster. Ann Breck, wife of Foster Cruft and
                    grandmother of John H. Holliday, was the daughter of John Breck (1705-1761) who was married in 1727
                    to Margaret Thomas. Margaret was the daughter of William Thomas and his wife Abigail, the year of
                    her birth being 1708.
            John, the father of Ann Breck, was the son of a John Breck (1680-1713) who was married in 1703 to Ann
                    Patteshall (1678-1767). The father of the latter John Breck was also a John Breck (1650-1691) with a
                    wife named Susanna. The father of this third John Breck was Edward Breck who died in Dorchester in
                    1662. He married Isabel Rigby.
            Ann Patteshall (1678-1767), who married the second John Breck, was the daughter of Richard Patteshall
                    (1636-1689) and Martha Woodee. Martha was born in 1669 to Isaac and Dorcas Woodee. The father of
                    Richard was Edmund Patteshall, who died in 1675.
            The grandmother of John H. Holliday and wife of John Cruft, Lucia Crocker Shaw, was the daughter of
                    William Shaw, D. D. (1741-1816) of Marshfield, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , who married Lucy Crocker (1744-1776) in 1766. The Reverend William Shaw was graduated
                    from 
                        Harvard
                     in 1762, and in 1815 received the degree of S. T. D. He was married a second time to
                    Sarah Mather, and a third time, to Ann Check-ley. The father of the Rev. William Shaw was also
                    graduated from 
                        Harvard
                     (class of 1729). He was born in 1708 and married Sarah Angier (1705-1768). The
                    grandfather of the Rev. William Shaw was Joseph Shaw and his grand-mother was Judith Whitmarsh
                    (1669-1760), daughter of John and Sarah Whitmarsh. Joseph Shaw was the son of John Shaw of Weymouth,
                    whose wife Elizabeth was the daughter of Nicholas and Elizabeth Phillips. This John Shaw of Weymouth
                    was the son of Abraham Shaw, the immigrant from 
                        England
                    , who married Bridget Best in 1616 and died in Dedham, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , in 1638.
            Sarah Angier, mother of the Rev. William Shaw, was  the daughter
                    of the Reverend Samuel Angier (1654-1719) who was graduated from 
                        Harvard
                     in 1673. The Rev. Angier married Hannah Oakes in 1680. Samuel Angier was the son of
                    Edmund Angier (1612-1692), who came to 
                        Cambridge
                     from 
                        England
                     and married Ruth Ames. Ruth was the daughter of the Rev. William Ames (1676-1633) and
                    his wife Joanna Fletcher (1587-1644). Ames and his wife were immigrants to 
                        Cambridge
                    , Massachusettes, from 
                        England
                    . Edmund Angier's father was John Angier. Hannah Oakes, who married the Rev.
                    Samuel Angier, was the daughter of the Reverend Urian Oakes (1631-1681), an early president of 
                        Harvard
                     College. The father of Urian Oakes was Ed-ward Oakes, who like his son, was born in 
                        England
                     and be-came a resident of 
                  Cambridge,
                            Massachusetts
               .
            Lucy Crocker, who became the first wife of the Rev. William Shaw, was the daughter of the Rev. Joseph
                    Crocker (1715-1772) of Eastham, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , who married Reliance Allen (1715-1759) in 1739. Joseph was graduated from 
                        Harvard
                     in 1734. He was the son of Thomas Crocker (1671-1728) who married Hannah Green of 
                        Boston
                     in 1698. Thomas died in Barnstable in 1728, at the age of fifty-three. Thomas was the
                    son of Josiah Crocker (1647-1698) who married Malatiah Hinckley, (1648-1714). Malatiah was the
                    daughter of Governor Thomas Hinckley, born in 
                        England
                     in 1619, and his wife Mary Richards of Cape Cod. The Governor died in 1706. The father
                    of Josiah Crocker was William Crocker of Barnstable and his wife Alice. Josiah died in 1692.
            Reliance Allen, who became the wife of the Rev. Joseph Crocker, was the daughter of the Rev. Benjamin
                    Allen who was graduated from Yale in 1708. Benjamin married Elizabeth Crocker in 1712, and died in
                    1754. The father of the Rev. Benjamin Allen was James Allen of Martha's Vineyard
                    (1623-1714) and his wife Elizabeth Perkins (1644-1722). Elizabeth Crocker who became the wife of the
                    Rev. Benjamin Allen, was born in 1668 to Job Crocker (1644-1718) and his wife Hannah Taylor. Job was
                    the son of William Crocker and his wife Alice.
            The Holliday line from the earliest one listed in this brief family history runs as follows:
            Samuel Holliday—b. Aug. 12, 1709 at Glen, 
                        Scotland
                    ; m. (2) Janet Adair; d. Rathfriland, County Down, 
                        Ireland
                    .
            
            William Holliday (son of Samuel and Jane Adair Holliday) —b. 1755 in 
                        Ireland
                    ; m. Martha Patton; d. 1812 in 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            Samuel Holliday (son of William and Martha Patton Holliday) —b. 1779; m. Elizabeth Martin
                    (b. 1781; dau. Jacob and Catherine Wilson Martin; d. 1846).
            William Adair Holliday (son of Samuel and Martha Patton Holliday)—b. about 1806 in
                            
                  Harrison County, Kentucky
               ; came to Indiana in 1816; m. Lucia Shaw Cruft (b. 1805; dau.
                    John and Lucia Crocker Shaw Cruft; d. 1881).
            John Hampden Holliday (son of William Adair and Lucia Shaw Cruft Holliday)-b. May 31, 1846; m.
                    Evaline M. Rieman of 
                        Baltimore
                     in 1875; d. Oct. 1, 1921, in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            John Hampden Holliday, Jr., (son of John Hampden and Evaline M. Rieman Holliday) —b. about
                    1884; d. Dec. 23, 1917, in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C.
            
               
                  1 Additional biographical material on John H. Holliday may be found in the
                        following: George Irving Reed, ed., Encyclopedia of Biography of Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1895), I, 92-94; Will Cumback and T. B. Maynard, eds., Men of
                            Progress of Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1899), 474-477; Jacob PIatt Dunn, Greater 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                   (
                            Chicago
                        , 1910). II, 1006-1008; idem. Indiana and Indianians (
                            Chicago
                        ., 1919), III, 1226-1226; Kate Milner Rabb and William Hersehill, eds., An Account of 
                                Indianapolis
                             and 
                                Marion
                             County (
                            Dayton
                        . O., 1924), IV, 406-410; 
                            Indianapolis
                         News, Oct. 21, 1921.
            
         
         
         
            Queries and Answers
            Query 97: GARNER-LANGLEY FAMILY
            Edom Garner was born on Nov. 21, 1814, and married Rebecca Langley on Feb. 16, 1837, in 
                        Delaware
                     County, Indiana. Rebecca was born on Jan. 3, 1820. They later moved to Russiaville, 
                        Howard County
                    , Indiana, and from there to 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Wanted: the parentage of Edom and Rebecca (Langley) Garner, when and where they lived
                    with dates, and the names of all their children. Names and addresses of any descendants living in
                    Indiana would be appreciated. —B.G.S.
            Query 98: MCCLINTOCK FAMILY
            John McClintock of 
                        Clark County
                    , Indiana, died and left a will in 
                        Johnson County
                    , Indiana, in 1843, in which his children are given as William, Findley, Samuel and
                    Rebecca. The name of his wife is not mentioned. John Mc-Clintick was administrator of the estate of
                    James Martin in 
                        Clark County
                    , Indiana, April 25, 1804 ("Abstracts of Early Wills," Indiana Magazine of History, June, 1939, XXXV, 225). He is said to have served in the
                    Revolutionary War, but his record has not been proven. Any information of his place of residence
                    during that time, and the name of his wife with dates, will be appreciated.—I.E.T.
            Query 99: SHAVER (SHAFFER) FAMILY
            John Shaver (Shaffer) was married on Sept. 3, 1808, to Ann Monfort, a daughter of Nerny Monfort.
                    Where were they married? John Shaver died on Oct. 3, 1866, and his wife Ann died on Jan. 7, 1868.
                    Both are buried in Klum Cemetery near Alpine, 
                        Fayette
                     County, Indiana. The above dates are taken from the tombstones. The Monfort Bible gives
                    children of Henry Monfort and his wife Anna: Mary (b. Dec. 6, 1769, d. Jan. 12, 1770), Peter (b.
                    Dec. 7, 1772), Mary (b. March 14, 1775), John (b.\ March 3, 1779), Hannah (b. Aug. 12, 1781), Sara
                    (b. Feb. 17, 1874), Catherine (b. Dec. 4, 1786), Ann (b. March 17, 1792). A genealogy of this family
                    is being compiled. Records and dates in the hands of descendants in Indiana will assist this history
                    of the Shaver family.—Charles W. Shaver, 
                        Salina
                    , 
                        Kansas
                    .
            
            Query 100: MARKS FAMILY
            Samuel Marks, a native of 
                        Ireland
                    , who came to America in 1787 (or 1788), married a Miss Denny of 
                        Ireland
                    . They first lived in 
                        Philadelphia
                    ; then in Lee County, 
                        Virginia
                    ; 19—MAGAZINE OF HISTORY—5784 ffl ffl ffl then in Harlan County, 
                        Kentucky
                    ; and last in 
                        Washington County
                    , Indiana. Children of Samuel Marks by his first wife were: Alexander, john, Jane,
                    Martha, Mary and Margaret. His first wife died in 
                        Virginia
                    , and he later married Sarah Benjey. Children by second marriage were: William E.,
                    Elizabeth, Sophia, Sarah, Catherine and Nancy. Two brothers came with Samuel Marks to
                    Indiana—John and William. About 1818, Henry Morris, son of George and Mary (Fisher)
                    Morris, moved from 
                        North Carolina
                     to Lee County, 
                        Virginia
                    , where he married Jane Marks, daughter of Samuel Marks (above) in Harlan County, 
                        Kentucky
                    . They had eight children—five sons and three. daughters. Dates and
                    information of both Marks and this line of the Morris family are wanted.—G.D.B.
            Answer to Query 20 (March, 1937, p. 108, M.I.H. (: I wish to thank you that through this query and
                    connections with others working on this line for many years, an exchange of data and many letters
                    with the Morris family in Pennsylvania has been possible, and we have succeeded in establishing this
                    Amos Morris line as having come into Indiana.1 Other lines that may interest
                    readers and help to solve problems is that of John Fitzgerald, officer in the Revolutionary War.
                    There are several of the name, but the John Fitzgerald of my line had children: Joseph Hawkins,
                    John, Walter, Benjamin and Nancy. Another line is that of William Hamilton, who married Isabella
                    Thompson. They lived in Chippensburg, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , near Chambersburg. Children: William (killed in Revolutionary War), Eleanor,
                    Alexander, Isabella, Thomas, Robert and Samuel.—Mrs. Frank 
                        Hamilton
                    , 147 Barton Avenue, 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana.
            Answer to Query 89 (September, 1939, p. 350-51, B.C. G.): The Craig ancestry, so far as we have been
                    able to find from family, court, cemetery records and other sources, goes 
                  
                     2 The editor appreciates letters coming to her telling of interest in
                            the department of" Indiana Genealogy" in the Magazine. and concerning the
                            value of the department in genealogical work.—M.T.M.
               
                     back to John Craig. He was born in 
                        Wales
                    , came to America (date not known) and settled near Waynesburg, 
                        Greene County
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . His son, Jesse Craig, born in 
                        Greene
                     County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , a farmer and trader, married Nancy Anne Forden, about 1809, and came to 
                        Harrison County
                    , Indiana, about 1811. Children: William Welder (b. June 14, 1810, in 
                        Greene
                     County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    : d. May 30, 1874; m. Elizabeth Meyers (Moyars) in 
                        Harrison County
                    , Indiana, on Sept. 4, 1832), Jesse Melton, Lee Tibbage (went to 
                        Mississippi
                     and not heard from after the Civil War), Louisa (m. Jacob Charley of 
                        Harrison County
                    , Indiana), Mary Ann (b. 1817; m. Arrias Hughes; d. March, 1882), Charlotte, Sarah,
                    Mariah (m. Green 
                        Brandenburg
                    , a minister; lived near Mauckport, Indiana), Thomas (moved to 
                        Arkansas
                    , from Indiana; m. there; no record of his family), Robert (m. Melinda Dunham; lived in 
                        Harrison County
                    , Indiana).
            William Welder Craig, the eldest child of this family, was a United Brethren minister. See Adam Byron
                    Condo, History of The Indiana Conference of the United Brethren in Christ, 177,
                    252. He lived many years in the community of Potato Run Church, where he was buried. He organized
                    the Cape Sandy United Brethren Church in 1871, later disbanded. Patents for Government land which he
                    bought in 1846 and 1854 are recorded at Corydon, Indiana. His wife, Elizabeth Meyers (daughter of
                    John Meyers of 
                        Virginia
                    ), was born on March 30, 1808, and died on May 19, 1897. Children of William W. and
                    Elizabeth (Meyers) Craig: Robert 
                        Marion
                     (1833-1910; m. Jan. 5, 1865, Sarah Breeden, or Breden; lived at 
                        Leavenworth
                    , Indiana), John Jasper (died young), Sarah Elizabeth (m. Abe Breeden or Breden),
                    Christine (m. John Brandenburg), Nancy (never married), William Welder, Jr. (b. 1845; d. 1911), Alva
                    (b. during Civil War; buried at Vicksburg), Green Gaines, our grandfather (b. 
                        Harrison County
                    , Indiana, on February 6, 1841; d. 1892; m. Mary Kindle, on Sept. 3, 1863; served in the
                    Civil War as first Lieutenant of Company I, Thirteenth Indiana Infantry). We hope to find later the
                    early record of John Craig from 
                        Wales
                    , thought to have been a Revolutionary soldier.—Mrs. Janice Craig Roberson, 
                        Leavenworth
                    , Indiana.
            Answer to Query 90 (September, 1939, p. 351, E. McH.): Information to assist in answering this query
                    may be found in Lizzie D. Coleman, History of the Pogeon Roost Massacre
                     (
                        Mitchell
                    , Ind., 1904), and in Calvin McCormick, Memoir of Miss Eliza McCoy
                    (Dallas, 
                        Texas
                    , 1892). In the former (p. 27), the children of William E. Collins or (Collings) are
                    given as: Elizabeth, Zebulon, Richard Henry, Jane (married John Biggs), Sichey (married John
                    Richie), John, Karnes (whose son, Karnes Collins, m. (1) Mary Jane Hoagland). Mrs.
                    Albert R. Overman (deceased) of 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana, a granddaughter of Jeremiah and Sallie McCoy (sister of John McCoy) Payne,
                    sent to Miss Coleman the genealogy of the Payne line. She also corresponded with Eliza McCoy
                    mentioned above, and many others of her family, leaving most valuable records. In her notes, she
                    states that the Jane Collins, who married John McCoy on Oct. 13, 1803, was a sister of William E.
                    Collins, and that his daughter Jane married John Biggs as shown in the Coleman record. The parentage
                    of William and Jane Collins is not given, nor the name of the wife of William E. Collins. Eliza
                    McCoy, born April 1, 1813, was the seventh child of John and Jane (Collins) McCoy. She died on Nov.
                    8, 1891, and the account of her life as given in the Memoir tells of her work as a
                    missionary to the Indians, from June 17, 1844, to 1853; her educational work, and financial aid to
                    churches, colleges, missions and individuals; and through her letters much about her parents and
                    their family.—M.T.M.
         
         
         
            Cemetery Records of Hendricks County
            
               Copied by ROSCOE R. LEAK
            The Vieley Cemetery: 1
            
            
               Sarah Fowler—1836-1876.
               Stephen Fowler—1836-1900.
               Sarah 
                            Wise
                        —d. Oct. 1, 1875.
               Enos Leach—d. Jan. 16, 1870; aged 69 yrs., 1 mo., 4 days.
               Elizabeth G. Leach—wife of Enos Leach; d. Feb. 24, 1891; aged 66 yrs., 1 mo., 7
                        days (dau. of William and Sarah 
                            Montgomery
                        ).
               John E.—Son of W. B. and R. A. Moon; d. Dec. 3, 1871; aged 14 yrs., 7 mos., 15
                        days.
               Rebecca T.—wife of George F. Hall; d. April 6, 1870; aged 33 yrs., 7 mos., 9 days.
               Marie Rachel—wife of Caleb F. Adams; d. Sept. 8, 1873; aged 23 yrs., 4 mos., 9
                        days.
               Thomas T. Wilson—d. Dec. 19, 1872; aged 38 yrs., 3 mos., 1 day.
               Lavina—wife of Fountain Hardwick; d. Aug. 27, 1875; aged 21 yrs., 3 mos., 3 days.
               Dr. John Thomas Hall—b. in Boyle Co., Ky., Feb. 16, 1842; d. June 22, 1872.
               Sarah—wife of G. W. Leak; d. Feb. 3, 1868; aged 38 yrs., 3 mos., 13 days.
               George W. Leak—d. April 3, 1906; aged 77 yrs., 5 mos., 16 days.
               William E. Leak—d. Feb. 14, 1868; aged 4 yrs., 9 mos., 14 days.
               Mary E. Leak—d. April 23, 1870; aged 5 yrs., 14 days.
               Elizabeth A. Leak—d. Feb. 17, 1868; aged 7 yrs., 9 mos., 16 days.
               Matilda E. Leak—d. Feb. 15, 1868; aged, 16 yrs., 5 mos., 3 days.
               Amanda Dowden—wife of William E.; b. Aug. 1, 1839; d. Oct. 12, 1899.
               William Dowden—b. June 13, 1826; d. Jan. 11, 1888.
               Emma Thompson—wife of H. H. Thompson; d. Jan. 9, 1889.
               John McMains—d. March 6, 1877; aged 35 yrs., 12 days.
               Lina Armstrong—wife of John F. Armstrong; b. Aug. 14, 1865; d. Feb. 18, 1890.
               Abel Strickland.
               Jane Strickland.2
               
               William G. Eldre.
               Oliver Cundiff—son of J. M. and H. A. Cundiff; b. July 30, 1857; d. Jan. 25, 1888.
               James M. Cundiff—b. Aug. 22, 1825; d. Feb. 20, 1888.
               Harriet A. Cundiff—wife of J. M. Cundiff; b. Jan. 11, 1835; d. Dec. 21, 1898.
               Amanda Thompson Jeger—wife of Hother; d. Feb. 8, 1879; aged 25 yrs., 8 mos., 8
                        days.
               James W. Thompson—1827-1900. 
                     
                        1 This cemetery is located on State Road 34, one-fourth of a mile
                                east of Liston. (Sec. 28, Tp.17N., R1W). It is dedicated to the memory of Union
                                Township, Hendricks County, Indiana, Pioneers. Several of the charter members of the
                                Lizton Christian Church are buried in this cemetery, as well as many prominent pioneers.
                     
                        2 Abel and Jane Strickland, pioneers. It has come down in
                                community tradition that Abel helped clear the trees in 1827, to make the right of way
                                for the 
                                    Indianapolis
                                -
                                    Crawfordsville
                                 road, which runs by the cemetery where he now sleeps. It is now known as
                                State Road 84.
                  
               
               
               Elizabeth Thompson—1827-1866.
               Mary Reeves—wife of G. W. R.; d. March 7, 1879; aged 44 yrs., 8 mos., 28 days.
               George W. Reeves—d. April 1, 1881; aged 50 yrs., 6 mos., 11 days.
               William L. Leach—d. Oct. 23, 1889; aged 26 yrs., 2 mos., 29 days.
               Abraham Leach—son of James M. and Elizabeth Leach; d. Oct. 24, 1878; aged 11 yrs.,
                        3 mos., 11 days.
               Herbert H. Leach, son of J. M. and E. Leach; d. Dec. 4, 1877, aged 7 mos., 10 days.
               Isaac Rutledge—b. June 2, 1831; m. March 7, 1851; d. March 19, 1866.
               Millie Bradley Rutledge—b. April 3, 1831; d. October 4, 1904.
               William Baker Buzzard—d. Nov. 10, 1871; aged 47 yrs., 6 mos., 6 days.
               Arthur Buzzard—son of W. B. and M.; d. Aug. 12, 1870; aged 5 mos.
               David S. Buzzard—d. Feb. 8, 1870; aged 73 yrs., 9 mos., 22 days.
               Louisa M. Buzzard—wife of D. S. Buzzard; d. March 9, 1869; aged 68 yrs., 3 mos., 7
                        days.
               America A. (Leak) Nelson3 —wife of Thomas J. Nelson; d. Sept.
                        25, 1879; aged 31 yrs., 9 mos., 14 days.
               
                  
                            Franklin
                         Blair Leak—d. July 12, 1866; aged 22 yrs., 8 mos., 27 days.
               William O. Leak—d. Oct. 24, 1870; aged 9 yrs., 8 mos., 27 days.
               Mary Lucy Leak—d. Nov. 2, 1870; aged 15 yrs., 3 mos., 9 days.
               Charles E. Leak—d. Oct. 10, 1863; aged 2 yrs., 8 mos., 13 days.
               James L. Leak—b. Bracken Co., Ky., July 14, 1816; d. Sept. 6, 1883.
               Harriet A. Leak—wife of J. L. Leak; b. Frederick Co., Va., Sept. 21, 1822; d. March
                        23, 1889.
               Margaret J. Leak—wife of J. M. Leak; d. Feb. 15, 1898.
               Eva—dau. of J. M. and M. J. Leak.
               Oertie Leak—child of M. J. Leak.
               Mary F. Leak—wife of J. M. Leak, d. Nov. 9, 1872; 'aged 24 yrs., 9 mos., 8
                        days.
               Daniel Dickey—d. Jan. 25, 1865; aged 63 yrs., 6 mos., 22 days.
               
                  
                            Warren
                         Leak—son of John A. and Nevada Leak.
               John L. Kendall—son of J. H. and Margaret K.; b. May 14, 1867; d. May 22, 1901.
               Oliver M. Kendall—son of J. H. and M. Kendall; d. Jan. 16, 1872; aged 4 yrs. [3
                        yrs.], 1 mo., 18 days.
               Rachel Kendall—b. Feb. 12, 1873; d. Jan. 15, 1881.
               Harvey B. Leak—son of E. A. and G.; b. Dec. 23, 1889; d. July 26, 1890.
               Charles W. Davidson—d. Sept. 12, 1893; aged 24 yrs., 4 mos., 2 days.
               John N. Davidson—d. Dec. 22, 1888; aged 47 yrs., 11 mos., 16 days.
               Mary E. Buzzard—d. April 19, 1880.
               Alsa Ann Davidson—wife of John N.; 1844-1911.
               Morton N. Riggs—d. Oct. 17, 1868; aged 56 yrs., 5 mos., 28 days.
               Richard F. Rainey.
               Thomas Adams—d. Oct. 2, 1872; aged 69 yrs., 5 mos., 11 days.
               Hanna Adams—wife of Thomas; b. Nov. 21, 1806; d. July 4, 1882. 
                     
                        3 America A., 
                                    Franklin
                                 Blair, William O., Mary Lucy and Charles E. Leak were the children of James
                                Lawrence and Harriet Amanda (Buzzard) Leak.
                  
               
               
               Mary S. Bryant—wife of J. O.; d. Aug. 23, 1863; aged 35 yrs., 6 mos., 6 days.
               Nannie Bronaugh—d. Jan. 1, 1867; aged 16 yrs.
               Mary Bronaugh—b. June 18, 1819; d. Nov. 5, 1887.
               Robert Bronaugh—b. Nov. 12, 1819; d. Aug. 16, 1894.
               Margaret Woody—wife of Miller; d. March 27, 1879; aged 37 yrs., 9 mos., 8 days.
               Charles Rainey.
               Mary E. Rainey.
               Nancy J. Richardson—dau. of W. H. and K.; d. Aug. 24, 1869; aged 17 yrs., 4 mos.,
                        12 days.
               Lucy Spry—d. Jan. 1, 1865; aged 70 yrs., 11 mos., 15 days.
               W. H. Richardson—d. April 15, 1874; aged 48 yrs., 8 mos., 16 days.
               Sarah M. Foxworthy—dau. of W. H. and M. J.; b. April 26, 1859; d. March 3, 1881.
               William H. Foxworthy—b. Aug. 24, 1829; d. July 9, 1887.
               
                  
                            Dayton
                         Foxworthy—son of W. H. and M. J.; b. Feb. 14, 1865; d. Feb. 20, 1893.
               Mary E. Foxworthy—dau. of W. H. and M. J.; b. April 8, 1867; d. May 4, 1876.
               Lola M. Parsons—dau. of G. M. and N.; d. Oct. 11, 1874; aged 37 yrs., 6 mos., 12
                        days.
               Martha Wilson—wife of George Wilson; d. March 3, 1859; aged 43 yrs., 6 mos., 11
                        days.
               George W. Wilson, son of G. and M.
               Synthia Fitzsimmons—dau. of M. F. and S.; d. Aug. 25, 1867; aged 14 yrs., 5 mos., 4
                        days.
               Hugh F. Adams.
               Levi Fay Adams—son of Hugh F.; d. July 22, 1889; aged 1 yr., 6 mos., 17 days.
               Jesse Vieley (for whom this cemetery was named)—d. March 2, 1879; aged 59 yrs., 4
                        mos., 8 days.
               Elizabeth Vieley (for whom Lizton was first called New Elizabeth)—wife of Jesse;
                        1826-1906.
               Harriet Gardner—wife of William G.; dau. of Jesse and E. Vieley; d. May 1, 1887;
                        aged 26 yrs., 11 mos., 28 days.
               Jesse C. Leachman—1860-1886.
               Robert Leachman—1868-1875.
               Harvey Leachman—1883-1884.
               Melvin M. Leachman—1836-1880.
               Nancy Lewis.
               Mary M. Runnels—dau. of T. M. and Lucinda; d. April 13, 1868; aged 10 mos., 18 days
                        (Lucinda, second wife of Thomas M. R.)
               Lewis Leak, no marker.
               Elizabeth Leak—wife of Lewis; d. Jan. 31, 1859; aged 50 yrs., 5 mos., 10 days.
               John R. Leak—son of L. and E. Leak; d. April 25, 1859; aged 20 yrs., 9 mos., 3
                        days.
               Susan J. Runnels-first wife of T. M.; dau. of Lewis Leak; d. May 23, 1869; aged 23 yrs., 5
                        mos., 3 days.
               
               Allen Hayden—no marker; son-in-law of Lewis Leak; Civil War soldier.
               
                  
                            Marion
                         Leak—no marker; son of Lewis; Civil War soldier.
               Mary A. Miller—dau. of Henry and Hanna; d. Sept. 30, 1875; aged 30 yrs., 2 mos., 25
                        days.
               Cora A. Sourwine—dau. of Isaiah and Rebecca; d. May 7, 1875; aged 4 yrs., 2 mos., 4
                        days.
               Evaline Boswell—wife of Abednago; d. June 14, 1875; aged 66 yrs.
               William Lewis—son of S. J. and H. A.; d. Feb, 11, 1865.
               Stephen J. Lewis—d. July 27, 1870; aged 33 yrs., 3 mos., 20 days.
               Ezekiel Davison—d. July 11, 1865; aged 56 yrs., 1 mo., 6 days.
               Sarah Baker—wife of John Baker; d. Sept. 25, 1858; aged 30 yrs., 1 mo., 23 days.
               Margaret Baker—dau. of John and Sarah; d. Dec. 9, 1874; aged 16 yrs., 4 mos., 29
                        days.
               David C. Lane—b. Jan. 18, 1839; d. April 15, 1899.
               Hannah Lane—wife of David; d. Aug. 18, 1868; aged 29 yrs., 5 mos., 29 days.
               Sarah E. Lane—dau. of D. C. and H. J.; d. Feb. 9, 1867; aged 1 yr., 1 mo., 7 days.
               Stephen T. Lewis—d. Oct, 13, 1855; aged 42 yrs., 1 mo., 12 days.
               Nancy Thompson—wife of Joseph (wife first of Stephen T. Lewis); d. April 3, 1859;
                        aged 41 yrs., 21 days.
               Eliza Cundiff—wife of John Cundiff (wife first of William Leak); d. April 24, 1864;
                        aged 55 yrs., 6 mos., 27 days.
               Oliver L. Leachman, 1872-1873.
               J. Alonzo Leachman, 1867-1868.
               Urban Hale, son of J. R. and S. N.; d. March 26, 1883; aged 1 mo., 18 days.
               Ettie Hale—dau. of J. R. and S. N.; d. July 11, 1876; aged 1 mo., 11 days.
               Mollie E. Hale—d. Feb. 15, 1875; aged 7 yrs., 10 mos., 27 days.
               Nettie S. Hale—d. Feb. 17, 1875; aged 9 yrs., 3 mos., 26 days.
               Susan McClintic—wife of James R. Hale; b. Aug. 11, 1843; d. March 11, 1898.
               Landrum F. Leak—d. Dec. 5, 1889; aged 71 yrs., 11 mos., 2 days.
               Sarah Leak—wife of Landrum; [dates not legible.]
               Abraham 
                            Hamilton
                        —d. Aug. 6, 1891; aged 84 yrs., 5 mos., 23 days.
               Fanny 
                            Hamilton
                        —wife of A. H.; d. Jan. 18, 1879; aged 68 yrs., 1 mo., 5 days.
               Joan 
                            Hamilton
                        —dau. of A. and F. H.; d. Aug. 23, 1852; aged 7 yrs., 9 mos., 8 days.
               Julia 
                            Hamilton
                        —dau. of A. and F.; d. Sept. 30, 1854; aged 1 mo., 20 days.
               Mary 
                            Hamilton
                        —dau. of A. and F.; d. Dec. 12, 1863; aged 14 yrs., 7 mos., 14 days.
               Catherine 
                            Hamilton
                        —wife of John Hamilton who died in 
                            Tennessee
                         about 1830, mother of Abraham and Edny 
                            Hamilton
                        ; d. Nov. 9, 1866; aged 92 yrs., 23 days.
               Edny 
                            Hamilton
                        —d. Aug. 14, 1887; aged 67 yrs., 4 mos., 12 days.
               Joshua E. Dickerson—son of Henry and Catherine Dickerson; d. Sept. 1, 1871; aged 22
                        days.
               
               John W. Dickerson—son of H. and C.; d. Sept. 22, 1871; aged 1 yr., 2 mos., 29 days.
               Ailsie Scott—dau. of James E. and E. J.
               Ellen Jane Scott—wife of James E.; d. March 28, 1887; aged 33 yrs., 11 mos., 14
                        days.
               Samuel O.—son of J. E. and E. J. Scott; d. Sept. 20, 1885; aged 4 mos., 20 days.
               George W. Wheat—b. March 27, 1823; d. March 18, 1903.
               Euphemia Wheat—wife of George W. Wheat; b. Nov. 18, 1836; d. July 26, 1894.
            
            (To be continued).
         
         
            
                    BIBLE RECORD OF THE MATTHEW SYMONS FAMILY
                
            Matthew Symons,1 son of John and Ann Symons, b. Dec. 7, 1766.
            
               Sarah, wife of Matthew Symons and daughter of Thomas and Elizabeth Gilbert, b. Dec. 17, 1772.
               
                        Children of Matthew and Sarah (Gilbert) Symons:
                    
               Samuel Symons, b. March 22, 1790.
               John Symons, b. Oct. 23, 1791.
               Thomas Symons, b. March 25, 1794.
               Matthew Symons, b. Feb. 11, 1798.
               Ann Symons, b. April 23, 1800.
               Elizabeth Symons, b. Feb. 22, 1803.
               Prudence Symons, 'b. May 20, 1805.
               Mary Symons, b. Aug. 7, 1806.
               Sarah Symons, b. Oct. 6, 1812.
               Margaret Symons, b. Aug. 15, 1815.
               Elizabeth Symons, 2 d. Oct. 27, 1832, aged 88 yrs., 5 mos., and 5 days,
                        wife of — Symons, Sr.
            
            
               
                  1 This record, contributed by Mrs. Ira Tranter, 448 East 
                            Madison
                         Street, 
                            Franklin
                        , Indiana, was copied from the Beard Bible, printed and published by Matthew Carey,
                        122 Market Street, 
                            Philadelphia
                        , April 23. 1806.
               
                  2 Possibly an aunt of Matthew Symons, the wife of a brother of John
                        Symons.
            
         
         
         
            
               
                        PATH OF J FRANK HANLY FAMILY 1863-1920
                    
            
            
            Governor J. Frank Hanly: Genealogical Notes
            HARRY O. GARMAN
            J. Frank Hanly was born on April 4, 1863, in a log cabin in 
                        St. Joseph
                     Township, 
                        Champaign
                     County, 
                        Illinois
                    . In 1866, his father, Elijah Hanly (1829-1885)1 moved to another
                    cabin home about one mile south of the birthplace of J. Frank. This new home was in the same county,
                    but in Sydney Township.2 Both of these pioneer homes were in the valley of Salt
                    Creek, which joins the 
                        Vermillion
                     River at 
                  Danville, Illinois
               . At eighteen years of age, J. Frank Hanly began
                    making Republican speeches in 
                        Illinois
                    , and continued public speaking through the remainder of his life. He spoke in every
                    state of the 
                        United States
                    , and was on his way to make a speech when he was killed in a railroad wreck near
                    Dennison, 
                        Ohio
                    , on August 1, 1920. He was elected Governor of Indiana in 1904, and served from 1905 to
                    1909. At the time of his election, he lived in 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana. The maiden name of Governor Hanly's wife was Eva A. R. Simmer
                    (1860-1927).
            
               
                        Children of Elijah and Anna E. (Calton) 3 Hanly:
                    
               George Hanly—b. 1849; d. 1857.
               L. Hanly—b. 1852; d. 1854.
               Lyman Hanly—b. 1854; d. 1884.
               Willis Hanly—b. 1856; d. 1871.
               Mary Hanly—b. 1858; d. 1876.
               Rachel Hanly—b. 1860; d. 1918.
               Gov. J. Frank Hanly—b. 1863; d. 1920.
               
                  Children of J. Frank and Eva A. R. (Simmer) Hanly:
               Ethel Elfride Hanly—b. July 24, 1882, 
                            Warren
                         County, Ind.; m.
               Harry O. Garman, Dec. 19, 1904, at 
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind.
               Lyle Alice Hanly—b. Nov. 12, 1883; d. July 9, 1884.
               Owen Pugh Hanly—b. Aug. 29, 1886; d. Oct. 26, 1891.
               Inda May Hanly—b. Sept. 13, 1888; d. at birth.
               Cecil Rabb Hanly—b. Sept. 24, 1896; d. Mar. 7, 1899.
               
                        Children4 of Harry O. and Ethel Elfride (Hanly) Garman:
                    
               Esther Hanly Garman—b. Oct. 8, 1905; d. Oct. 9, 1905.
               Harry 
                            Franklin
                         Garman—b. Sept. 18, 1907; d. at birth.
               Harry Hanly Garman—b. Feb. 19, 1915.
               Helen Louise Garman—b. Feb. 8, 1918.
            
            
               
                  1 The parents of Elijah Hanly and grandparents of J. Frank Hanly were: 
                            Israel
                         and Rachel (Gilet) Hanly. 
                            Israel
                         Hanly was born in 1804 and died in 1860.
               
                  2 The tract of land on which stood the home where J. Frank Hanly was born
                        was a part of Section 34, Township 19N, Range 10E. The next home of the Hanly family was
                        situated on a tract that formed a portion of Sec.3, Tp.18N, R10E. These were two of several home
                        places occupied by the family of Elijah and Anne E. (Calton) Hanly, parents of Governor Hanly.
                        It required much time and money to locate exactly the sites of these two homes. Each was a log
                        cabin in the woods. After the sites were located in the fields of today, it was possible to find
                        pieces of brick from the chimney, some charcoal, and pieces of dishes, old milk crocks and jugs.
               
                  3 Anna E. (Calton) Hanly was born in 1829 and died in 1891.
               
                  4 Grandchildren of J. Frank and Eva A. R. (Simmer) Hanly.
            
         
         
         
            Abstracts of Early Wills and Executors' Records*
            
            
               By DOROTHY RIKER
            
               
                  Sproatt, Benjamin. Administrator, John Sproatt, appointed November 6, 1817.
                        Bond, $1000. Securities: Joseph Whitcomb, Philip Beurgard. Appraisal of personal
                        property made November 10 by Henry S. Elliott and Nathaniel Scribner (
                            Clark County
                         Will Record B, 1817-33, 1, 21-28.
               
                  Tucker, Leonard. Administrator, widow Elenor Tucker, appointed November 21,
                        1817. Bond, $300. Securities: James Scott, John H. Thompson (ibid., 1-2).
               
                  Yoder, Elias. Administrator, Jacob Yoder, appointed December 13, 1817. Bond,
                        $1000. Securities: William and John Ferguson. Appraisement of personal property (ibid., 2, 38-40, 126-27.)
               
                  Harris, Lewis. Administrators, widow Nancy Harris and John H. Thompson,
                        appointed December 27, 1817. Bond, $500. Securities: Alexander Stewart, William
                        Rowland (ibid., 3).
               
                  Cooke (or Cook), Moses. Will dated September 20, 1812;
                        probated August 4, 1818. Heirs: wife, Nancy Cooke; brothers, John A. and Thomas Cooke; nephew,
                        Thomas Andrews, son of Moses Andrews, deceased, and wife Lettica; eldest sister, Lydia; youngest
                        sister, Lettica; William Adams, Jr., nephew of wife Nancy. Executor: William Adams, Jr. Prior to
                        the will being proved, Nancy Cooke was appointed administrator on February 7, 1818. Appraisement
                        of personal property made February 18, 1818, by John Field, Jr., and Zebulon Collings (ibid., 4, 19-21, 37-38).
               
                  Fisher, Frederick. Administrators, son Jacob Fisher and Jacob Fouts,
                        appointed February 25, 1818. Bond, $3000. Securities: John Owens, William Booen.
                        Appraisement of personal property made February 27, 1818 by Henry Robinson, Lewis Fouts, and
                        Enoch Robinett (ibid., 6, 29-32).
               
                  Wicks, Joseph P. Administrator, widow Anna Wicks, appointed March 3, 1818.
                        Bond, $400. Securities: William Linton, Alpheus Branham (ibid., 6).
               
                  Batten (or Badden), Tobias, of 
                            Jeffersonville
                        . Will dated February 26, 1818; probated March 30, 1818. Served and was discharged
                        from Eighth Regiment, U.S. Army; entitled to bounty land; when patent comes, land to be sold,
                        debt to John Jobe to be paid, and remainder to go to wife and children who now reside in
                                
                     Alexandria, Virginia
                  . Executor: Andrew Gelwick. Witnesses: John
                        Weathers, Leonard Bowman, John Jobe (ibid., 7-8).
               
                  Tidwell, William. Administrator, John Conner, appointed April 4, 1818. Bond,
                        $400. Securities: Charles Ross, Reece Williams. Appraisement of personal property
                        made February 16, 1820 by A. Hen-thorn and James Smith (ibid., 8-9, 114-15).
               
                  Hallowell, James. Administrator, Elihu Marsh, appointed April 
                     
                        * Continued from the December. 1939, issue of Indiana Magazine of History. Compiled from microfilm copies of 
                                    Clark County
                                , Indiana, Will Record B. 1817-1833. made for the Historical Records Survey,
                                Works Progress Administration. in 1936. and deposited in the Archives Division of the
                                Indiana State Library.
                  
                         8, 1818. Bond, $200. Securities: John Field, Jr.,
                        and Evan 
                            Shelby
                         (ibid., 9).
               
                  Steward, Henry. Administrator, Samuel Steward, appointed April 13, 1818.
                        Bond, $200. Securities: Henry L. Minor and John Miller (ibid.,
                        9-10).
               
                  West, Solomon. Administrators, widow Huldah West and Thomas Sinex, appointed
                        April 13, 1818. Bond, $400. Securities: Richard Aston, William Drasdell. Appraisement
                        of personal property made May 2, 1818 by Stephen Beers and George McDougal. Bill of sale, August
                        3, 1819 (ibid., 10, 32-35, 139-40).
               
                  Dodge, Gamaliel. Administrator, William Hughes, appointed May 21, 1818.
                        Bond, $300. Securities: Joshua Dodge, Thomas Chapple, John Reed (ibid., 11).
               
                  Griffith, John. Will dated February 12, 1818; probated May 26, 1818. Heirs:
                        children, Nancy, John, Nelly Findley, Hannah Coombs, David, Elizabeth Yunt (?), Stephen, Polly.
                        Mentions land in 
                            Shelby
                         County, 
                            Kentucky
                        . Executors: Daniel Ketchem of 
                            Kentucky
                        , Thomas Carr, Jonathan Jennings. Witnesses: Daniel Peyton, Matthew Taylor, Jonathan
                        Jennings. Appraisement of personal property made June 27, 1818 by Mathew Parks, Joseph Carr,
                        Daniel Peyton (ibid., 12-13, 86).
               
                  Lewis, Jonathan. Will dated April 16, 1817; probated May 13, 1817. Heirs:
                        wife, Sarah Lewis, and two children, Priscilla and Thomas. Executor: Sarah Lewis. Witnesses:
                        Richard Aston, Sr., Jacob Brookart (ibid., 13-15).
               
                  Parks, Jacob. Will dated January 13, 1818; probated June 12, 1818. Heirs:
                        wife, Jane Parks, and four children, Jane, Agnes, Elizabeth and Joshua Linsey. Executors: Jane
                        Parks and her brother and friend John Derham (?). Witnesses: Stephen Hutchings, Wilson Cooper
                            (ibid., 15-16).
               
                  Moss, James. Administrator, Reuben H. Murray, appointed July 16, 1818. Bond,
                        $200. Securities: Isaac Howk, John Weathers (ibid., 16).
               
                  Slaughter, George, Sr. Administrator, John Field, Jr., appointed July 21,
                        1818. Bond, $1000. Securities: Daniel Gray, Thomas Chappell. Appraisement of personal
                        property made August 4, 1818 by John Douthitt and Benjamin Ferguson (ibid.,
                        17, 48).
               
                  Paxson, Thomas. Administrator, John Eastburn, appointed August 7, 1818.
                        Bond, $3000. Securities: William L. Hobson, Sylvester Perry (ibid.,
                        18).
               
                  Wickins, Josiah. Administrator, Thomas Pile, appointed September 12, 1818.
                        Bond, $40. Securities: Isaac 
                            Shelby
                        , Henry L. Minor (ibid., 19).
               
                  House, Andrew. Administrator, Seth Woodruff, appointed September 25, 1818.
                        Bond, $2000. Securities: Charles Woodruff, Charles B. Naylor (ibid., 40-41).
               
                  Murphy, Martin F. Administrator, Daniel H. Wattson, appointed October 12,
                        1818. Bond, $500. Securities: Lucius Young, Thomas H. Letcher. Appraisement of
                        personal property made October 19, 1818 by Henry Turner, Daniel Keller, Wyatt P. Tuley. Bill of
                        sale, October 31, 1818 (ibid., 42, 47, 95-96).
               
               
                  Britt, John. Administrator, Joshua Gore, appointed October 21, 1818. Bond,
                        $100. Securities: Joseph A. Lingan, John Weathers. Appraisement of personal property
                        made October 23, 1818 by Andrew Gelwick and James Fislar (ibid., 43, 152).
               
                  Shake, Rachel. Administrator, Jacob Shake, appointed October 28, 1818. Bond,
                        $2000. Securities: Patrick Welch, William L. Pittman, John Peyton. Appraisement of
                        personal property and bill of sale, November 13 and 14, 1818. New administrator, William L.
                        Pittman, appointed August 17, 1819 (ibid., 44, 73-76, 93).
               
                  Daniel, Peter. Will dated April 30, 1817; probated November Term 1818.
                        Heirs: wife, Rebecca Daniel; children, Joseph, Peter, John, Polly Morgan, Susanna Cuna,
                        Margaret, Elizabeth, Catherine, Jane. Executors: Francis Patterson, Martin Huckleberry.
                        Witnesses: Robert L. Plasket, John Hutchens. Appraisement of personal property and bill of sale,
                        November 20 and 21, 1818 (ibid., 45-46, 77-78).
               
                  Wilkey, William. Will dated October 10, 1818; probated November 14, 1818.
                        Heirs: wife, Jane Wilkey, and children (names not given). Executors: wife and Abel Bland.
                        Witnesses: William Buckhannon, William Gibson, William Bland (ibid., 48-50).
               
                  Scribner, Nathaniel. Administrators, widow Elizabeth Scribner, James and
                        Joel Scribner, appointed December 24, 1818. Bond, $3000. Securities: Abner Scribner,
                        Charles Woodruff (ibid., 50-51).
               
                  Thompson, John. Administrator, William Rowland, appointed January 21, 1819.
                        Bond, $80. Securities: Isaac Howk, Benjamin Ferguson (ibid., 51).
               
                  Miller, Frederick. Administrator, James Fisler, appointed February 13, 1819.
                        Bond, $80. Securities: Stephen Ranney, James Lemon (ibid., 52).
               
                  Smallwood, David. Administrator, widow Catherine Smallwood, appointed March
                        23, 1819. Bond, $1000. Securities, Henry Lutz, Evan 
                            Shelby
                        . Appraisement of personal property and bill of sale, April 16 and May 15, 1819 (ibid., 70-71, 89-92).
               
                  Copple, Philip. Appraisement of personal property made October 22, 1818, by
                        Jacob Copple, administrator. Bill of sale, October 24, 1818 (ibid., 71-73). No
                        appointment of administrator found.
               
                  Beard, Jane. Administrator, William D. Clark, appointed June 21, 1819. Bond,
                        $1600. Securities: Robert Hopkins, Elias Johnson. Appraisement of personal property
                        made January 4, 1820 by John Reed and Alevicion F. 
                            Greene
                         (ibid., 85, 142-43).
               
                  Walker, Philip. Will dated April 20, 1819; probated July 15, 1819. Heirs:
                        wife, Martha Walker, and friend, John Weathers. Executor: John Weathers. Witnesses: William
                        Ferguson, John Barker, George Smallwood (ibid., 86).
               
                  Wood, George. Administrator, widow May Wood, appointed July 20, 1819. Bond,
                        $1000. Securities: James N. Wood, Robert Burge (ibid., 87).
               
                  Macdonald, Ebenezer. Administrator, Stephen Ranney, appointed July 29, 1819.
                        Bond, $1000. Securities: John Weathers, William Booen. Appraisement of personal
                        property (ibid., 87-88, 96-97).
               
                  Akers, Simon. Administrator, George Akers, appointed July 31,  1819. Bond, $600. Securities: George McKinley, John
                        Campbell. Appraisement of personal property, August 13, 1819 (ibid., 88,
                        146-47)
               
                  Robertson, Daniel. Administrator, Isaac Naylor, appointed September 2, 1819.
                        Bond, $500. Securities: Charles B. Naylor, John F. Ross (ibid.,
                        94).
               
                  Bellows, Thomas. Administrator, widow Lois Bellows, appointed September 24,
                        1819. Bond, $4000. Securities: William Booen, Isaac Howk. Appraisement of personal
                        property made October 21, 1819 (ibid., 94-95, 98-101).
               
                  
                     
                                Brown
                            , William. Will dated September 6, 1819; probated November 15, 1819. Heirs:
                        wife, Peggy 
                            Brown
                        ; children, Nathan, Harriot, Elhanan, Maria. Executor: John Beggs. Witnesses:
                        Patrick Keynon, John R. Funk, William G. Goforth (ibid., 105-7).
               
                  Abbot, James, Sr. Will dated November 13, 1819; probated November 16, 1819.
                        Heirs: wife (name not given); children, James, John, Peggy, William, Elizabeth, Isaac, Sally,
                        Levina, David; heirs of deceased daughter, Polly. Executors: John Beggs, Alfred Plummer (husband
                        of daughter Sally). Witnesses: John R. Funk, John Meloy, Sr., William Meloy (ibid., 107-9).
               
                  Bellows, David. Administrator, Miss Lydia Bellows, appointed December 28,
                        1819. Bond, $4000. Securities: William—, John White. Appraisement of
                        personal property made January 19, 1820 by James Braman, Sr., and Peleg Lewis (ibid., 109, 111-14).
               
                  Watson, William. Administrator, Andrew P. Hay, appointed January 29, 1820.
                        Bond, $1500. Securities: Alban Vernon (?), John Gibson, Jr. (ibid.,
                        110).
               
                  Gilmore, John. Will dated March 14, 1819; probated April 3, 1820. Heirs:
                        wife, Jane Gilmore; children, Ephraim, William, John, Catherine, Polly, Betsey, Lucindy.
                        Daughter Polly to receive indentured negro woman Maria for ten years from this date, at end of
                        which time she should be freed. Executors: wife and Richard Shad-burn. Witnesses: Willis W.
                        Goodwin, Samuel McClintick, William Akins (ibid., 115-18).
               
                  Ruddle, Stephen. Administrators, Francis Ratliff and Cornelius Ruddle,
                        appointed August 29, 1820. Bond, $1400. Securities: William Rowland and James Sharp.
                        Appraisement of personal property and bill of sale (ibid., 118-19, 120-23).
               
                  Schneider, Martin. Administrator, John Schwarts, appointed October 5, 1820.
                        Bond, $1200. Securities: Joseph Christopher Schwarts and Joseph Gibson. Appraisement
                        of personal property made by John and Basil R. Prather. Power of attorney, dated June 24, 1821,
                        at Waldenbourg, 
                            Switzerland
                        , from Martin Schneider, Sr. to John Hay Farnham authorizing him to receive from
                        John Schwarts and all other persons property belonging to his son (ibid.,
                        119-20, 164-65, 220-23).
               
                  Bowman, Aaron. Appraisement of personal property made by Samuel Gwathmey and
                        Richard Mosley. Sally Bowman, administrator. No date for appointment of administrator or
                        appraisement (ibid., 149).
               
                  Crumb, John. Administrators, Elizabeth Crumb, widow, and Christian  Crumb, son, appointed January 30, 1821. Bond.
                        $400. Securities: Thomas Hutchinson, Christian King. Appraisement of personal
                        property made by John Pettit, John Covert, John Allhands. Bill of sale (ibid.,
                        164, 166-73).
               
                  McCormick, Zion. Administrator, Daniel Smith, appointed February 12, 1821.
                        Securities: Alexander Walker, John Gray. Appraisement of personal property and bill of sale (ibid., 165-66, 173-75).
               
                  Dixon, Lewis. Administrators, widow Susan Dixon and Jacob Bare (or Base ?),
                        appointed August 13, 1821. Bond, $400. Securities: Samuel Patterson, John Rawalt (?).
                        Appraisement of personal property and bill of sale (ibid., 176-77, 184,
                        192-93).
               
                  Stevens, William. Administrator, Thomas Stevens, appointed August 14, 1821.
                        Bond, $800. Securities: John Stevens, William G. Armstrong, Philip Boyer.
                        Appraisement of personal property made November 9, 1821 by William Plasket, William Kelly,
                        Robert B. Henry (ibid., 177-78, 191).
               
                  Coble, Christopher. Administrator, Anthony Coble, appointed October 3, 1821.
                        Bond, $1000. Securities: Samuel Shake, Levi Owen, James Collins, John B. Pittman.
                        Appraisement of personal property and bill of sale (ibid., 180-81, 193-95,
                        199).
               
                  Braman, James, of New 
                            Providence
                        . Administrators, widow Rhoda Braman and James Braman, appointed October 30, 1821.
                        Bond, $1500. Securities: Isaac Howk, John F. Ross. Appraisement of personal property
                        made by John White and John Borden (ibid., 181-82, 241-43).
               
                  Moon, Mordecai. Administrator, widow Lean Moon, appointed October 20, 1821.
                        Bond, $500. Securities: Elias Johnson, John H. Thompson. Appraisement of personal
                        property and bill of sale (ibid., 182, 212-14).
               
                  Charlton, Simpson. Administrators, Samuel Patterson and John Rogers (or
                        Rodgers ?), appointed November 10, 1821. Bond, $1000. Securities: Thomas Rogers, John
                        Boyer. Appraisement of personal property and bill of sale (ibid., 183,
                        214-18).
               
                  Copple, Jacob. Administrators, John Copple, Jr. and Abraham Copple,
                        appointed November 12, 1821. Bond, $1000. Securities: John Copple, Sr. and William
                        Izard. Appraisement of personal property and bill of sale (ibid., 184-85,
                        202-6).
               
                  Bowman, Leonard. Administrator, widow Anne Bowman and Robert Bowman,
                        appointed November 14, 1821. Bond, $800. Securities: William Smith, Reuben H. Murray,
                        Ephraim Gilmore (ibid., 185-86).
            
         
         
         
            Some Additions to the Genealogy Collection in the Indiana State Library*
            
            (Arrangement is by title, author or compiler, and date of publication or compilation)
            FAMILY HISTORIES 
            
               About our ancestors; scrap-book compiled by J. W. Thom from articles in 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, 1910-11, by 
                            
                                Lexington
                            
                        .
               Anderson family records, Anderson, 1936.
               Ansley family, Davidson, 1933.
               Boyd family, Boyd, 1935.
               Brent (Hugh), Brent, 1937.
               Bromley genealogy (Luke of R. I. and Conn.), Bromley, 1911.
               Cabells and their kin, v. 1, 
                            Brown
                        , 1939.
               Carver family of New 
                            England
                        , Carver, 1935.
               Chapin book (2v.), Chapin, 1924.
               Cogswells in America, Jameson, 1884.
               Cole (James of 
                            Plymouth
                        ), Cole, 1908.
               Collett family (with Appendix), Collett, 1929.
                     Will of John Collett, 1670 (photostat).
                     Collett letters, 1650, Ferrar Miss., 
                                    Cambridge
                                 (photostat) Cory family (8pts.), Cory, 1937.
                  
               
               Demarest family, Demarest, 1938.
               Derby genealogy (Thomas of Stow, Mass.), Bromley, 1905.
               Dow, Book of, Dow, 1929.
               Family histories and genealogies (5v.), 
                            Salisbury
                         and McCurdy, 1892.
               Fauntleroy family, 1273-1938, Fauntleroy, 1938.
               Giddings family (George), Giddings, 1882.
               Green family of Va. and Ky. (chart), Lewis, n.d.
               Henry genealogy, Eldridge, 1915.
               Ide family (Simeon), Flanders, 1931.
               Ketcham and Kutch families, Kutch, 1939.
               Klipsch, Schaefer, Schneider, Zeigner families, Urbahns, 1938.
               Leas genealogy, Leas, 1930.
               Lilly family (2v. in 1), n.d.
               Lo-Lathrop family, 
                            Huntington
                        , 1884.
               Love history and genealogy, Allen, 1937.
               McCutcheon (Cutcheon) family, McKee, 1931.
               Mendenhall family, Mendenhall, 1912.
               Moore family (Sharpless and Rachel), Haines, 1937.
               Murray-Conwell genealogy, Milne, 1939.
               Naftzger family, Richer, 1939.
               Orndorff family, Drake and Orndorff, 1939. 
                     
                        * Previous lists appeared in the Indiana
                                    Magazine of History (Sept., 1937), XXXIII, 379-80, and (Sept., 1938), XXXIV.
                                888-392. There are a number of compilations of the Federal Writers' Project and 
                                    United States
                                 Historical Records Survey in the General Division of Indiana State Library
                                which have historical and genealogical significance, but cannot be included in the
                                present list. A few, including Surveys of Church Archives in several of the states, have
                                been shelved in the Genealogy room. It is a matter of regret that much other pamphlet
                                and manuscript material in the Genealogy Section is necessarily omitted from this
                                list.— 'Anna Poucher, Librarian Genealogy Section. Indiana State
                                Library.
                  
               
               
               Overton family (Va.), Anderson, 1938.
               Piatt family (Tribe of Jacob), Lodge, 1934.
               Powers family (Walter, of Concord, Mass.), Amidon, 1937.
               Rawlins or Rollins family, Rollins, 1874.
               Remy family in America (2v.), Rhamy, 1939.
               Shaw, Archibald, Autobiography of, 1937.
               Stroud family (Capt. Richard of 
                            New London
                        , Conn.), 
                            Lowell
                        , 1934.
               Swayne (Swain) family, Swain, 1935.
               Symmes memorial (Zechariah), Vinton, 1873.
               Taylor family (Va. and 
                            Ohio
                        ), Taylor, 1851 (photostat).
               Thomas family (Griffith), Wingert, 1938.
               Tracy, Ancestors of Lieut. Thomas, 
                            Ripley
                        , 1895.
               Tracy, English ancestry of Gov. Wm. and Thos., Tracy, 1908.
               Turpin family (Jacob), Lambert, 1910.
               Utterback family, 1620-1937, Utterback, 1937.
               Winship family in America, Cole, 1905.
               Yager and Wilhite families, Duke, 1939.
               Young family (Rufus and Jane Vosburgh), Cory, 1937.
               Zehner-Hoppes family, Carpenter, 1939.
               Zink families in America, Kellogg, 1933.
               The Newberry Library of Chicago has presented pamphlets on the following families: Cocke,
                        Faust, Fowler-Allen-Osborn, Lapham, McConnell, Minor-Miner, Wilson-Delong and More
                    families.
            
            LOCAL HISTORIES
            
               
                        
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                        
                     Genealogical and family histor yof 
                                    Connecticut
                                 (4v.), Cutter, 1911.
                     
                        
                                    Milford
                                , History of, 1639-1939, Federal Writers' Project, 1939.
                     Norwich, History of, Caulkins, 1874.
                     Windham, History of, 1600-1880, Lamed, 1874-1880.
                  
                    
               
                        
                            
                                Kansas
                            
                        
                        
                     Pioneer history of 
                                    Kansas
                                , Roenigk, 1933.
                     
                  
                        
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                        
                     Abstracts of early 
                                    Kentucky
                                 wills and inventories, King, 1933.
                     Allen county, Marriage records of, 1815-1865, Willoughby, 1938.
                  
                    
               
                        
                            
                                Maine
                            
                        
                        
                     Genealogical dictionary of 
                                    Maine
                                 and 
                                    New Hampshire
                                 (pt. 5), Noyes and Davis, 1938.
                  
                    
               
                        
                            
                                Maryland
                            
                        
                        
                     Magruder's colonial wills (v. 5), Abstracts 1772-1774, 1939.
                  
                    
               
                        
                            
                                Massachusetts
                            
                        
                        
                     
                        
                                    Auburn
                                , Vital records to 1850, 1900.
                     Groton, History of, 
                                    Butler
                                , 1848.
                     Holland, History of, Lovering, 1915.
                     Ipswich in 
                                    Massachusetts
                                 Bay colony, Waters, 1905.
                     Rowley, Earl settlers of, Blodgette, 1933.
                  
                    
               
                        
                            
                                Missouri
                            
                        
                        
                     
                        
                                    Kansas
                                 City, History of, Case, 1888.
                  
                    
               
               
                        
                            
                                New Hampshire
                            
                        
                        
                     Genealogical dictionary of 
                                    Maine
                                 and 
                                    New Hampshire
                                 (p.t 5), Noyes and Davis, 1938.
                     Probate records (v. 6), 1757-1760, 1938.
                  
                    
               
                        
                            
                                New Jersey
                            
                        
                        
                     Camden county marriages, 1860-1880, Craig, 1938.
                     Cumberland county genealogical data, Craig, 1938.
                     Matawin, 1686-1936, Federal Writers' Project, 1936.
                  
                    
               
                        
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                        
                     Book of names especially relating to early Palatines, McWethy, 1933.
                     Holland Soc. of N.Y.: Collections (v. 1-4); Yearbooks 1892-1929 (incomplete file).
                     New Harlem Register; genealogy of desc. of twenty-three original patentees…
                                . , Toler, 1903.
                     Old Kinderhook, History of, Collier, 1914.
                     Old Rhinebeck, History of, Morse, 1908.
                     
                        
                                    Ontario
                                 county, History of, Milliken, 1911.
                     
                        
                                    Wayne
                                 county, Rose neighborhood sketches, Roe, 1893.
                  
                    
               
                        
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                        
                     
                        
                                    Hamilton
                                 county, Centennial history of, McClung, 1938.
                     
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Friends, Minutes of yearly meeting, 1813-1821, Lindley, 1930
                            (photostat).
                  
                    
               
                        
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                        
                     
                        
                                    Fayette
                                 county, Biographical Dict., Nelson, 1900.
                  
                    
               
                        
                            
                                Rhode Island
                            
                        
                        
                     Old Westerlie, including 
                                    Charlestown
                                , Hopkinton, 
                                    Richmond
                                 and Westerly, 1636-1936, Utter, n.d.
                  
                    
               
                        
                            
                                South Carolina
                            
                        
                        
                     Saint Matthews' parish, 1767-1838, Sally, 1939.
                  
                    
               
                        
                            
                                Vermont
                            
                        
                        
                     Braintree, History of, Bass, 1883.
                     Heads of families, 2d census, 1800, Vt. hist. soc., 1938.
                     Pomfret, History and genealogy (2v.), Vail, 1930.
                  
                    
               
                        
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                        
                     Annals of Southwestern 
                                    Virginia
                                , 1769-1800, Summers, 1929.
                     Encyclopedia of 
                                    Virginia
                                 biography (5v.), Tyler, 1915.
                     Fauquier county, Wills, administrations, marriages 1759-1800, King, 1939.
                     Historical Register of Virginians in the Revolution, Gwathmey, 1938.
                     Isle of Wight county, Wills and administrations (v.1), 1647-1800, Chapman,
                            1938.
                  
                    
               
                        
                            
                                West Virginia
                            
                        
                        
                     Cemetery readings in W. Va., 
                                    Marion
                                 co., Federal Writers' Project, 1939.
                     Hampshire co., Va. (now West Va.), Early records of, Sage and Jones, 1939.
                     
                        
                                    Monroe
                                 co., History of, Morton, 1916.
                  
                    
               
                        
                            
                                Wisconsin
                            
                        
                        
                     
                        
                                    Prairie
                                 du Chien, Scanlan, 1937.
                  
                    
            
            
            PATRIOTIC AND HISTORICAL SOCIETIES,
            
               Colonial Dames
                     History of National Society in State of Indiana, 1896-1939.
                     History and Register of National Society in State of 
                                    Maryland
                                , 1891-1915.
                     History and Register of National Society in State of 
                                    Virginia
                                . 1892-1930.
                  
               
               Chlonial Wars (Deposited by Society of, in State of Indiana)
                     Reports of Assembly of General Society for 1933, 1936, 1939.
                     Yearbook of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Society, 1939.
                     Yearbook of 
                                    Vermont
                                 Society, 1935-1939.
                     Historical publications of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Society: Origin of Pennaylvania's Present day courts in Colinial
                                times; A famous Colonial lawyer; and the Zenger trial, 1939.
                  
               
               Daughters of the American Colonists
                     History and Lineage book of the National Society in 
                                    Missouri
                                , 1936.
                  
               
               Daughters of the American Revolution
                     Index to Lineage books (vols. 81-120), National Society, 1939.
                     Indiana State chapters:
                           Caroline Scott Harrison (
                                            Indianapolis
                                        ), Marriage records, 1843-1851, 1939.
                           Fort Harrison (
                                            Terre Haute
                                        ), Additional records of members.
                           Nathan Hinkle (Clinton), Lineage book, 1939.
                           National Old Trails (
                                            Cambridge
                                         City), Records of Riverside and Heiney cemeteries, 1938.
                           Schuyler Colfax (
                                            South Bend
                                        ), Cemetery records, City cemetery, 1939.
                        
                     
                     
                        
                                    Kansas
                                 State Directory, 1938.
                     Roster of soldiers and patriots of the American Revolution buried in Indiana, Indiana
                                D.A.R., 1938.
                  
               
               Daughters of Founders and Patriots
                     Lineage book of National Society, 1937.
                  
               
               Indiana Historical Society—Committee on pioneer cemeteries and churches
                     Cemeteries:
                           
                              
                                            Cass county
                                        —
                                            Logansport
                                         and vicinity, 1939-40.
                           
                              
                                            Clark county
                                        —
                                            Salem
                                         M. E. Church, 1939.
                           Harrison county—Webster township, 1939.
                           
                              
                                            Marion
                                         county—Old Augusta cemetery, 1939.
                                 Conaroe Woods cemetery, 1939.
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                            Hamilton
                                         county—Old cemetery on Weinke road, 1939.
                           
                              
                                            Ripley
                                         county—Additional records, 1938.
                           
                              
                                            Rush county
                                        —Friends' cemetery (
                                            Carthage
                                        ), 1939.
                        
                     
                  
               
               Mayflower Descendants (Deposited by Society of, in State of Indiana)
                     Historical and other poems, Minturn, 1939.
                     History and genealogy of Mayflower planters (v.1), Hills, 1936.
                     Lineage papers of Society of Mayflower Descendants in State of Indiana, Haston,
                            1938.
                  
               
            
            
            MISCELLANEOUS
            
               Colonial families of the Southern states, Hardy, 1911.
               Compendium of American genealogy (v.3), Virkns, 1928.
               County histories of the U.S. (names, formation, etc.), Halvemon, 1939.
               Delancy's brigade, N.Y. Hist. Soc., 1917.
               Encyc. of American 
                            Quaker
                         Genealogy (v.2, Penn., and N.J.), Hinshaw, 1938.
               Falaise roll; recording companions of William, Duke of Normandy at the Conquest, Crispin,
                        1938.
               Historic heradlry of Britain, Wagner, 1939.
               Records of living officers of the U.S. Army, Hemersly, 1884.
               Scottish clans and their tartans (Lib. ed.), n.d.
               Simple guide to Irish genealogy, Clare, 1939.
               Swedes in America, 1638-1938, Benson and Hedin, 1938.
               These names of ours, Deliquest, 1938.
               Three hundred colonial ancestors and their war service (with supplement), Rixford,
                    1934-38.
            
            PERIODICALS
            
               
                  
                     
                                Detroit
                             Society for Genealogical Resarch Magazine (monthly).
               
                  
                            Hartford
                        
                        Times (weekly, containing Genealogical column).
               
                        
                     
                                Ohio
                             Genealogical quarterly.
                    
            
         
      
      
         
      
   
