
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 074, Issue 3, pages 183-292. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:074+issue:3+year:1978&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            William Wells: Frontier Scout and Indian Agent
            
                    Paul A. Hutton
                    ⋆
                
            William Wells occupies an important place in the history of Indian-white relations in the Old
                    Northwest. First as a Miami warrior and then as an army scout he participated in many of the
                    northwestern frontier's great battles; later as an Indian agent he held a critical position
                    in the implementation of the United States' early Indian policy. He was what was known
                    along the frontier as a "white Indian," a unique type often found along the
                    ever-changing border that marked the boundary of the Indian country. As such, he was the product of
                    two very different cultures, and throughout his forty-two years of life he swayed back and forth
                    between them—never sure to which he truly belonged. Such indecision doomed him, for he
                    could never be fully accepted by either society. When at last he perished in battle, it would be in
                    defense of whites, but he would be dressed and painted as an Indian. Such was the strange paradox of
                    his life.
            Born near Jacob's Creek, Pennsylvania, in 1770, Wells was only nine when his family migrated
                    down the Ohio River on flatboats in company with the families of William Pope and William Oldham to
                    settle on the Beargrass, near what is now Louisville, Kentucky. His older brothers, Samuel and
                    Hayden, had explored the region in 1775 and reported its richness to their father, Captain Samuel
                    Wells, Sr., late of the Revolutionary army. No sooner had the old soldier settled his family in a
                    fortified enclosure called Wells Station (three and one half miles north of present Shelbyville,
                    Kentucky) than he was killed in the ambush of Colonel John Floyd's militiamen near
                    Louisville in 1781. His mother having died earlier, the orphaned 
                  
                     ⋆ Paul A. Hutton is assistant editor of The
                                Western Historical Quarterly, Utah State University, Logan.
               
                     William Wells was taken into the home of his father's
                    comrade-in-arms, Colonel Pope.1
            
            While hunting near Pope's homestead in March, 1784, William and three other boys were
                    surprised by a party of Miami Indians and carried north to the White River Indian villages. Although
                    the other boys managed to make their escape, William was sent farther north to the Wea villages
                    along the Eel River where he was adopted into the household of a village chief, Gaviahatte (the
                    Porcupine). The fourteen-year-old captive evidently found the life of a Miami warrior much to his
                    liking because he quickly adapted to tribal ways. Named Apekonit (wild carrot, on account of his red
                    hair) by the Indians, he accompanied them on raids against the white settlements. He proved
                    particularly adept at luring river travelers to their doom along the Ohio. By acting as if he were
                    lost, he would get them to move to shore where his comrades would slay them.2
            
            This auburn-haired, freckle-faced warrior came to the attention of Little Turtle, war chief of the
                    Miami confederacy, and 
                  
                     1 Samuel Wells, Sr., was a Virginian who had fought in both the French
                            and Indian and Revolutionary wars, as well as Lord Dunmore's 1774 campaign against
                            the Shawnee, before moving to Kentucky. He had five sons and a daughter, of whom William was
                            the youngest. "William Wells Genealogy," William Wells Collection (Chicago
                            Historical Society); Wells Family File (Filson Club, Louisville); especially valuable is
                            Lyman C. Draper's interview with Darius Heald in Lyman C. Draper Collection
                            23S58–62 (The State Historical Society of Wisconsin, Madison); and Lewis Collins,
                                History of Kentucky (2 vols., Louisville, 1924), II, 239, 550.
                  
                     2 The only reliable accounts of Wells' capture are in the
                            Heald interview, Draper Collection 23S62–65; and Mann Butler, "An
                            Outline of the Origin and Settlement of Louisville, in Kentucky," The
                                Louisville Directory, for the Year 1832 (Louisville, 1832), 104. Almost all popular
                            accounts of Wells' life claim that he was adopted by Little Turtle, but there is no
                            evidence to support this contention. In 1792 Wells told John Heckewelder that his adopted
                            father was Gaviahatte. See "Narrative of John Heckewelder's Journey to the
                            Wabash in 1792," Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography,
                            XII (no. 1, 1888), 45; and Edward Rondthaler, Life of John Heckewelder
                            (Philadelphia, 1847), 112. There are no dependable accounts of Wells' early life.
                            Sketches of him appear in the following works, but they must be used with caution: Calvin M.
                            Young, Little Turtle: The Great Chief of the Miami Indian Nation
                            (Greenville, Ohio, 1917), 179; Otho Winger, Last of the Miamis-Little
                            Turtle (North Manchester, Ind., 1968), 17; Bessie Keeran Roberts, "William
                            Wells: A Legend in the Councils of Two Nations," Old Fort News,
                            XVIII (September-December, 1954), 7; Wallace A. Brice, History of Fort
                            Wayne (Fort Wayne, 1868), 147. Somewhat more reliable, although brief, sketches are in
                            Walter Havighurst, The Heartland: Ohio, Indiana, Illinois (New York,
                            1956), 78–85; Jacob Piatt Dunn, True Indian Stories
                            (Indianapolis, 1909), 117; Bert J. Griswold, The Pictorial History of Fort
                                Wayne, Indiana (2 vols., Chicago, 1917), I, 136; and Bert J. Griswold, ed., Fort Wayne: Gateway of the West, 1802–1813 (Indianapolis,
                            1927), 30–32. For Wells' activities along the Ohio River see John
                            Johnston to William Eustis, November 6, 1810, Letters Received by the Secretary of War,
                            registered series, Record Group 107 (National Archives, Washington).
               
                    
                    
                  CAPTAIN WILLIAM WELLS
                  Courtesy Indiana State Library, Indianapolis.
               
                     they soon became close friends. In time Wells married Little
                    Turtle's daughter, Sweet Breeze (Manwangopath), and over the years they had three daughters
                    and two sons. Wells could not have been more fortunate than to gain the protection of this chief.
                    Born in 1751, Little Turtle had first battled the white man in 1780 when he wiped out a detachment
                    commanded by Augustine de La Balme, a French soldier-of-fortune with his heart set on capturing
                    Detroit from the British. From that time on Little Turtle led the Miamis in their conflicts with the
                    whites to the east and south.3
            
            As a member of the Miami tribe, Wells was free to come and go as he pleased, but he made no effort to
                    return to Kentucky. He did, however, make contact with the American post at Vincennes, probably in
                    the capacity of an interpreter, and was instrumental in securing the freedom of at least one white
                    child held prisoner by the Indians.4 The commandant at Vincennes, Major John
                    Francis Hamtramek, was acquainted with Carty Wells, William's older brother, and informed
                    him of William's whereabouts. Carty made a dangerous but futile visit to the Eel River
                    village but could not convince William that they were indeed brothers.5
            
            Samuel Wells, who had already reached manhood when William was captured, also journeyed to Eel River
                    to visit his Indian brother. This time the youth recognized his relative and agreed to return to
                    Kentucky with him to visit the family homestead. Samuel had reached a position of wealth and
                    importance in Kentucky society, and he attempted to impress William with the comforts and amenities
                    of the white way of life. The youth was apparently not influenced, and, much to his
                    family's surprise, after a few days visit he returned to his life with the Indians.6
            
            
               
                  3 The Chicago Historical Society has a color miniature of Wells in its
                        collections, and Thomas Hunt, who knew Wells at Fort Wayne, left a physical description. Draper
                        Collection 21S57. Little Turtle's early career is covered in Bert Anson, The Miami Indians (Norman, 1970), 91, 104–105.
               
                  4 Wells arranged the ransoming of Oliver Spencer. See Milo Milton Quaife,
                        ed., The Indian Captivity of O.M. Spencer (New York, 1968), 58, 114. Wells is
                        also mentioned in another famous captivity narrative—that of Frances Slocum. See Otho
                        Winger, The Lost Sister Among the Miamis (Elgin, 111., 1936),
                        91–92.
               
                  5 Carty Wells, who lived at Coxe's Fort near Bardstown, Kentucky,
                        often carried dispatches for Major John Hamtramck. See Gayle Thornbrough, ed., Outpost on the Wabash, 1787–1791 (Indianapolis, 1957), 22, 40, 145, 160.
                        For Hamtramck's part in reuniting Wells with his family see John Hamtramck to Secretary
                        of War, November 1, 1801, enclosed in William Wells to William Eustis, June 25, 1809, Letters
                        Received by the Secretary of War, registered series, Record Group 107.
               
                  6 The Wells family passed down this story, and Darius Heald, the grandson
                        of Samuel Wells, Jr., told it to Draper in 1868 and again to Joseph Kirkland in 1892. See Draper
                        Collection 23S62–65; and Joseph Kirkland, The Chicago Massacre of
                        1812 (Chicago, 1893), 174–75.
            
            
            Wells did not contact his Kentucky relatives again for several years, as the intermittent raids that
                    had characterized Indian-white relations along the Ohio River for a decade erupted into full-scale
                    war. To the government of the United States the question of who owned the land north of the Ohio
                    River had been settled with the American victory over the British. The northwestern Indians had
                    sided with the British in the Revolution and had thus been conquered. American officials were not
                    swayed by Joseph Brant, the cultured Mohawk chief who led part of the Indian confederacy, when he
                    declared that "nine-tenths of the Indians" had never heard of the Revolution, much
                    less been participants in it. To chastise the recalcitrants the government sent General Josiah
                    Harmar at the head of 1,133 Kentucky militiamen and 320 regulars to destroy the Miami villages at
                    Kekionga (present Fort Wayne, Indiana), but Harmar's much-vaunted Kentucky frontiersmen
                    collapsed in panic when they came into contact with Miami warriors. The expedition ended a dismal
                    failure. The Indians, well-supplied by the British, stepped up their attacks during the winter and
                    spring of 1791.7
            
            Arthur St. Clair, governor of the Northwest Territory, was recommissioned a major general and
                    instructed to invade the Indian country with a force so strong as to make defeat impossible. While
                    recruiting his army, St. Clair sent General Charles Scott of the Kentucky militia with 750 mounted
                    men to attack the Wea towns on the upper Wabash. Late in May, Scott destroyed four Indian villages,
                    killed a few warriors, and took fifty-three Indian women and children prisoners back to
                        Cincinnati.8
            
            The Kentuckians next targeted the Miami town on the Eel River for destruction and sent Colonel James
                    Wilkinson with 
                  
                     7 Ernest A. Cruikshank, ed., The Correspondence of Lieut.
                                Governor John Graves Simcoe, With Allied Documents Relating to his Administration of the
                                Government of Upper Canada (5 vols., Toronto, 1923–1931), V, 4. The
                            British hoped to establish an Indian barrier state between Canada and the United States. See
                                ibid., I, 323, for the position of John Graves Simcoe, and for the
                            operation of his policy consult Reginald Horsman, "The British Indian Department
                            and the Resistance to General Anthony Wayne, 1793–1795," Mississippi Valley Historical Review, XLIX (September, 1962), 269–90.
                            General Josiah Harmar lost 183 men killed and thirty-one wounded while inflicting no
                            tangible damage to the Indians. Good accounts of his campaign are in James Ripley Jacobs,
                                The Beginning of the U.S. Army, 1783–1812 (Princeton,
                            1947), 53–63; and William H. Guthman, March to Massacre: A History
                                of the First Seven Years of the United States Army, 1784–1791 (New York,
                            1970), 173–97.
                  
                     8 For differing opinions on the effectiveness of General Charles
                            Scott's campaign see Jacobs, Beginning of the U.S. Army, 73; and
                            Guthman, March to Massacre, 203–204.
               
                     five hundred militiamen to accomplish the mission. Wilkinson
                    reached the Eel River village undetected on August 8, 1791, just hours after the Porcupine, his
                    adopted son, William Wells, and all but eight warriors left for Kekionga to draw ammunition. With
                    impressive military precision Wilkinson's men killed six of the eight defending warriors,
                    as well as a number of women and children, took thirty-four women and children prisoners, and burned
                    the village with the loss of only two killed and one wounded. Among the prisoners were
                    Wells' Indian wife and mother. Fearful lest he meet with some real resistance that might
                    tarnish his triumph, Wilkinson destroyed some crops in the area and hurried back to Kentucky.9
            
            Far from humbling the Indians, these raids only added vengeance to the redmen's reasons for
                    warring on the Americans. They would not have to wait long to extract payment in full from the
                    whites. In September, 1791, St. Clair led his army of nearly two thousand into the wilderness. On
                    November 4, 1791, the expedition, reduced to around 1,400 men by desertions, camped near the east
                    bank of the upper Wabash (present Mercer County, Ohio), still fifty miles from Kekionga. The
                    Indians, however, had left that place seven days before and lay in concealment all around the white
                    camp. Just as the troops settled down to breakfast, Little Turtle's one thousand warriors
                    attacked. To Winthrop Sargent, secretary of the Northwest Territory, the Indian war whoops sounded
                    like the ringing of a thousand horsebells, while to John McCasland of the Kentucky militia it
                    resembled more the desolate howls of wolves. For over six hundred of St. Glair's men it was
                    the last sound they ever heard.10
            
            If the army was to be saved, the artillery would have to do it, for the militia were instantly
                    panicked. Little Turtle, however, had made special plans to silence the eight cannons. Wells, with
                    three hundred warriors, was positioned directly in front of the guns and ordered to pick off the
                    artillerists. Within minutes the ordnance, around which lay all but one artillery officer and two
                    thirds of the gunners, was in the possession of 
                  
                     9 James Wilkinson's report is in American State
                                Papers: Indian Affairs (2 vols., Washington, 1832–1834), I,
                            133–35. For the capture of Wells' wife see Draper Collection 8J180 and
                            11YY11; "Narrative of John Heckewelder's Journey," 45; and [C. H.
                            More], "Engineer Recalls Romance of Captain and Princess," Wells Family
                            File.
                  
                     10 Draper Collection 8J128–29; Jacobs, Beginning of the U.S. Army, 85–123; Guthman, March to
                                Massacre, 220–44; Francis Paul Prucha, The Sword of the
                                Republic: The United States Army on the Frontier, 1783–1846 (New York,
                            1969), 22–27.
               
                     the warriors.11 There was no choice for St.
                    Clair but to retreat or face complete annihilation. The general therefore ordered his bleeding army
                    back to Fort Jefferson, twenty-nine miles to the south. It is conceivable that had the Indians
                    pursued not a man would have escaped, but Little Turtle sent out runners to call in his warriors,
                    declaring that "they must be satisfied … having killed enough."12
            
            As the remnants of the American army hobbled back to Cincinnati, the warriors of the Indian
                    confederacy dispersed, returning to their villages in triumph. Although the Miami homeland was
                    temporarily secure, young Wells was far from content because his family was still in the hands of
                    the enemy. In March, 1792, he and the Porcupine accompanied a delegation of Eel River and Wea chiefs
                    who visited Hamtramck at Vincennes to sign articles of friendship with the government in hopes of
                    securing the release of their women and children.13 The prisoners, however, were
                    held at Cincinnati, and Hamtramck was not empowered to order their release. The Indians would have
                    to wait for the arrival of General Rufus Putnam who was being sent by the government to conclude a
                    peace treaty with the Wabash tribes. While at Vincennes, Wells was again pressured by Hamtramck to
                    return to his own race, and Samuel Wells soon arrived to second the argument. Determined to secure
                    the release of his wife, Wells agreed to accompany Samuel to Louisville to await the arrival of
                        Putnam.14
            
            At some point during the month that he remained with Samuel in Louisville, William Wells decided to
                    give up his Indian life. Many factors undoubtedly played a part in the decision, not the least of
                    which may have been that Samuel had 
                  
                     11 Wells gave his account of the battle to Gerard T. Hopkins when the
                            Quaker visited Fort Wayne in 1804. Martha Tyson, A Mission to the Indians, From
                                the Indian Committee of Baltimore Yearly Meeting, to Fort Wayne, in 1804. Written at the
                                time, by Gerard T. Hopkins. With an Appendix, compiled in 1862 (Philadelphia,
                            1862), 65–66. Also see Henry Brown, The History of Illinois from its
                                First Discovery and Settlement to the Present Time (New York, 1844), 309; Elmore
                            Barce, The Land of the Miamis (Fowler, Ind., 1922), 203; and Johnston to
                            Eustis, November 6, 1810, Letters Received by the Secretary of War, registered series,
                            Record Group 107. Ironically, among those slain beside the artillery was Colonel William
                            Oldham, a close friend of Samuel Wells, Sr., who had accompanied the Wells family to
                            Kentucky in 1779.
                  
                     12 Tyson, Mission to the Indians, 133–34.
                  
                     13 Clarence Edwin Carter, comp. and ed., The Territorial
                                Papers of the United States: The Territory Northwest of the River Ohio,
                                1787–1803 (2 vols., Washington, 1934), I, 374–75,
                            380–83.
                  
                     14 Hamtramck to Secretary of War, November 1, 1801, enclosed in Wells
                            to Eustis, June 25, 1809, Letters Received by the Secretary of War, registered series,
                            Record Group 107; Draper Collection 8J180; "Narrative of John
                            Heckewelder's Journey," 45.
               
                     commanded a company of militia under St. Clair and thus might
                    have been slain by his Indian brother. In an interview granted a few years later, Wells rationalized
                    that he was impressed by the comforts and security of the whites at the very time that he was
                    depressed over the insecurity of Indian life. Although he had been happy with the Miamis, Wells had
                    been unable to "forget scenes and pleasures" of his white upbringing. Now he could
                    find no comfort with a people who lived "almost wholly to the present" and gave
                    "little or no remembrance to the past, and hope[d] nothing for the future." He
                    wanted more for his wife than the harsh existence of a Miami squaw, who he felt was little better
                    than a "beast of burthen." For his children he desired the order of white society
                    instead of the "wild and lawless democracy" of the Indian that was so often
                    punctuated by wars which he felt resulted from "a thirst of blood and of motion, common to
                    wild men and wild beasts." White society offered him the chance to "get a
                    comfortable living for the present … lay up something for old age … establish
                    a farm, [and] bring up children, who, when we are worn out with age, will close our
                        eyes."15
            
            When Putnam finally arrived at Cincinnati, he needed an interpreter, and Wells was quick to offer his
                    services for one dollar per day. Reaching Fort Washington (near Cincinnati) on July 13, 1792, Wells
                    was immediately reunited with his family amid "many tears."16
                    The new interpreter soon proved to be an invaluable employee for Putnam, who felt him "to
                    be a young man of good natural abilities and of an agreable disposition." Wells informed
                    the general of the hiding place of St. Glair's captured cannons and also urged Putnam to
                    open negotiations 
                  
                     15 The quotations are from an interview in 1798 with the French
                            philosopher Constantin François Volney in which Wells discussed his reasons for
                            leaving the Indians. C. F. Volney, A View of the Soil and Climate of the United
                                States of America (New York, 1968), 363, 372–74, 378–79. The
                            Wells family contended that William Wells and Little Turtle hoped to bring peace between the
                            races and that it was agreed between them that Wells would join the Americans and work for
                            peace while Little Turtle tried to sway the tribes in that direction. This story is
                            supported by the continuing friendship of the two and by the fact that they both advocated
                            peace after 1792. H. W. Compton, "The Battle of Fallen Timbers," in Addresses, Memorials and Sketches. Published by the Maumee Valley Pioneer
                                Association to be delivered at the Reunion at Delta, Ohio, Wednesday, August 30,
                            1899 (Toledo, 1899), 19–20; Dunn, True Indian Stories,
                            116–17.
                  
                     16 Hamtramck to Secretary of War, November 1, 1801, enclosed in Wells
                            to Eustis, June 25, 1809, Letters Received by the Secretary of War, registered series,
                            Record Group 107; Draper Collection 8J180, 11YY11; Rowena Buell, comp., The
                                Memoirs of Rufus Putnam and Certain Official Papers and Correspondence (Boston,
                            1903), 296, 381; "Narrative of John Heckewelder's Journey,"
                        45.
               
                     quickly with the Miamis because he was convinced that Little
                    Turtle favored peace. Putnam decided to travel to Vincennes, release the prisoners, and open peace
                    talks. On August 16, Wells, with the Indian captives and an escort of sixty men, started down the
                    Ohio River. They were followed two days later by a barge containing Putnam and his assistant, the
                    Moravian missionary John Heckewelder.17
            
            Heckewelder was fascinated by Wells, who still retained many of the customs and habits of the Miamis.
                    Constantly engaged in hunting during the trip, Wells on one occasion wounded a large bear. The
                    animal cried in agony, and as Heckewelder watched in astonishment, Wells went up to the wounded
                    beast and in "great earnestness, addressed him in the Wabash language, now and then giving
                    him a slight stroke on the nose with his ram-rod." When Heckewelder inquired what Wells was
                    doing, the young guide replied that he had upbraided the bear "for acting the part of a
                    coward; I told him that he knew the fortune of war, that one or the other of us must have fallen;
                    that it was his fate to be conquered, and he ought to die like a man, like a hero, and not like an
                    old woman; that if the case had been reversed, and I had fallen into the power of my enemy, I would
                    not have disgraced my nation as he did, but would have died with firmness and courage, as becomes a
                    true warrior."18
            
            Upon reaching Vincennes, Putnam released his prisoners to a delegation from the Miamis. Joined by the
                    Kaskaskias and some Potawatomies, the Eel River Miamis then signed a peace treaty with the whites,
                    although they made it clear that they would never agree to white settlement north of the Ohio
                        River.19 Loaded with presents, the Indians then returned to their villages
                    to join in the fall hunt and, later, to join the warriors opposing the white army.
            Putnam was anxious to return to Pennsylvania, but he had one more mission for Wells. Convinced that
                    his Vincennes council had neutralized some of the Miami and Potawatomie bands, Putnam sent his
                    guide-interpreter to negotiate with the Kekionga Miamis and the Delawares in the hope that they
                    would also join him in council. This was a risky business, for 
                  
                     17Buell, Memoirs of Rufus Putnam, 296,
                            308–309; "Narrative of John Heckewelder's Journey,"
                            45, 49–54.
                  
                     18 John Heckewelder, History, Manners, and Customs of the
                                Indian Nations Who Once Inhabited Pennsylvania and the Neighboring States (New
                            York, 1971), 256.
                  
                     19 This treaty was never ratified. American State Papers:
                                Indian Affairs, I, 338.
               
                     three envoys had already been murdered. While in Indian country
                    Wells was also to ascertain the strength and mood of the tribes and then report to Putnam at
                    Marietta. Although dangerous, the mission would prove profitable for the former Indian captive, who
                    was to be paid three hundred dollars with a two hundred dollar bonus if he could induce the hostiles
                    to negotiate.20 Wells had previously worked for the Americans only to secure his
                    family's freedom; now he clearly became the agent of the expansionists.
            Wells headed into the Indiana forests on October 7, and Putnam and Heckewelder returned to Marietta.
                    Weeks turned into months, and nothing was heard from the envoy or the Indians. Putnam, although
                    earlier convinced that peace was possible, now felt sure that Wells had been murdered. The general
                    wrote Anthony Wayne, the new commander of the western army, that he was going to Philadelphia to
                    convince "all the advocates for Treaties that nothing but a Sevear whiping will bring these
                    proud Savages to a Sence of there interests."21
            
            Although Wells had not been killed by the Indians, his mission had not been successful. The tribesmen
                    had not been at Kekionga but had assembled at the confluence of the Maumee and Auglaize rivers, and
                    Wells had presented Putnam's message in early January, 1793. Much to the satisfaction of
                    the British, the Indians rejected the peace offer. Nor was Wells able to recruit any chiefs to
                    return with him to Vincennes.22
            
            When Wells finally reported to Hamtramck at Vincennes, the major recruited him for another important
                    assignment. General Wayne, now encamped near Cincinnati with his new Legion of the United States,
                    was ordered to halt offensive operations until a peace commission could meet with the Indians at
                    Sandusky, Ohio. This irked the impatient general, who realized that the campaign must begin by
                    midsummer to take advantage of good forage and dry terrain. Wayne thus requested that Hamtramck hire
                    an agent to attend the conference and report its results to him so that he could quickly move his
                    troops forward. Although Wells was worried that his mission for Putnam 
                  
                     20 Rufus Putnam's instructions to Wells are in Buell, Memoirs of Rufus Putnam, 368–71. Also see ibid., 381; and "Narrative of John Heckewelder's Journey,"
                            173.
                  
                     21 Buell, Memoirs of Rufus Putnam,
                            375–77.
                  
                     22 For a British account of Wells' mission see Alexander
                            McKee to John Graves Simcoe, January 30, 1793, in Cruikshank, Correspondence of
                                John Graves Simcoe, I, 282–83.
               
                     had undercut his position with the Miamis, he agreed to go.23
            
            The council, meeting in August, 1793, proved unproductive, with the Indians demanding an Ohio River
                    boundary and the commissioners demanding adherence to the Fort Harmar agreement of 1789. Neither
                    side was in a mood to compromise, and the disgusted commissioners returned to Philadelphia convinced
                    that war was the only recourse. The order then went out for Wayne to advance.24
            
            Wells, reporting directly to Wayne on September 11, 1793, warned that the Legion would face at least
                    1,600 Indians, mostly Shawnees, Delawares, and Miamis, fully armed and supplied by the British.
                    Wells was convinced that "nothing prevented a peace taking place but the advice and
                    influence of the British" and that war might soon erupt along the western border from
                    Pennsylvania to Georgia. Wayne would have to strike the northern tribes quickly or face a
                    "General Confederacy … among the Indian nations against America …
                    that was ultimately determined … [to] destroy the whole of the frontier
                        inhabitants."25
            
            Impressed by the report, Wayne asked Wells to command a company of scouts in the upcoming campaign,
                    and, after seeing his wife and children safely to his brother's home, the former Miami
                    warrior agreed. His company, which varied in number as the campaign progressed, usually consisted of
                    twenty well-chosen men and was to report to and take orders only from Wayne. Each member of the
                    company was picked for his knowledge of the Indian and for his prowess in war. Among the elite
                    contingent were William May, who had seen service as a spy for Wilkinson; Nicholas Miller and
                    William Polke, both captured as youths and raised by the Indians; and Robert McClellan, a young
                    giant from the Pennsylvania backcountry who served a Wells' lieutenant and astonished the
                    entire command 
                  
                     23 Hamtramck to Secretary of War, November 1, 1801, enclosed in Wells
                            to Eustis, June 25, 1809, Letters Received by the Secretary of War, registered series,
                            Record Group 107; Hamtramck to Anthony Wayne, July 16, 1793, Anthony Wayne Papers (State
                            Historical Society of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia).
                  
                     24 The official records of the American commissioners are in American State Papers: Indian Affairs, I, 340–61.
                  
                     25 Wells' report to Wayne is in Dwight L. Smith, ed.,
                            "William Wells and the Indian Council of 1793," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, LVI (September, I960), 217–26. Also see Wayne to
                            Henry Knox, September 17, 1793, in Richard C. Knopf, ed., Anthony Wayne: A Name
                                in Arms (Pittsburgh, 1960), 272–73.
               
                     with remarkable feats of strength. As the Legion moved north,
                    this little group, dressed and painted as Indians, took the point.26
            
            Wishing to avoid a winter campaign, Wayne marched his army only as far as the southwest branch of the
                    Maumee River where he built Fort Greeneville. He also had a series of forts constructed at
                    twenty-five-mile intervals from Fort Washington to Fort Greeneville, some ninety-eight miles inside
                    Indian country. One of these outposts, Fort Recovery, was built on the site of St. Clair's
                    defeat and was fortified with some of St. Clair's cannons, recovered by Wells from where
                    the Indians had concealed them.27
            
            Still hoping to avoid bloodshed, Wells released a squaw he had taken prisoner and sent her to the
                    Indian chiefs with assurances that negotiations were still possible. As a result, the son of the
                    Delaware chief Buckongahelas arrived at Fort Greeneville on January 13, 1794, to meet with Wayne.
                    Although the audacious general was displeased that his war might end ingloriously, he agreed to a
                    thirtyday truce so that 
                  
                     26 For Wells' appointment as captain see Wayne to Wells,
                            October 22, 1793, Wayne Papers. The best source of information on Wells' scouts is
                            John McDonald, Biographical Sketches of General Nathaniel Massie, General
                                Duncan McArthur, Captain William Wells, and General Simon Kenton, Who Were Early
                                Settlers in the Western Country (Cincinnati, 1838), 183–96. McDonald
                            participated in the campaign as a member of Ephraim Kibby's detachment of scouts,
                            and his account is fairly reliable. All other accounts derive from McDonald's, but
                            further original information is in the Draper Collection. Material on Wells from the Draper
                            Collection must always be used with caution, however, for the interviews, held many years
                            after the events, often contain errors. Wells was authorized to raise a force of sixty
                            scouts, and although a number of detachments took orders from him, the following men formed
                            the core of his detachment: Robert McClellan, Nicholas Miller, Christopher Miller, Paschal
                            Hickman, Dodson Thorp, William Ramsey, Tabor Washburn, Joseph Young, William May, David
                            Thomson, William England, Thomas Stratton, Fielding Pilcher, David Reed, Benjamin Davis,
                            George Casterson, Chatin Dogged, James Elliot, and Charles Evans. "A List of the
                            Mens Names of Capt. Wells Company of Spies," and "Pay Roll of the Spies
                            selected by William Wells … ," Muster Rolls of Volunteer Organizations:
                            War With Northwest Indians, 1790–95, Records of the Adjutant General's
                            Office, Record Group 94 (National Archives).
                  
                     27 David Simmons, "Anthony Wayne's Forts,"
                                Old Fort News (Winter, 1973), 1–12. The details of
                            Wayne's campaign are given in Jacobs, Beginning of the U.S. Army,
                            124–88. There were several journals kept during the campaign. Two of the best are
                            Dwight L. Smith, ed., From Greene Ville to Fallen Timbers: A Journal of the
                                Wayne Campaign, July 28-September 14, 1794 (Indianapolis 1952); and [Reginald
                            McGrane, ed.], "William Clark's Journal of General Wayne's
                            Campaign," Mississippi Valley Historical Review, I (December,
                            1914), 418–44.
               
                     the Indians might consider his demand for the return of all
                    prisoners before negotiations could begin.28
            
            At the end of thirty days the impatient Wayne had heard nothing from the Indians, but no depredations
                    had occurred either. Fearing that the Indians hoped to delay his advance until the spring thaw made
                    movement more difficult, Wayne sent Wells out to take a prisoner. From a Delaware warrior and his
                    wife, captured by Wells near Grand Glaize, it was learned that the Indians had met in council and
                    had decided to comply with Wayne's demands but needed more time to collect all the white
                    prisoners. Wayne was unconvinced and again sent Wells out to gather intelligence.29
            
            Taking McClellan and Nicholas Miller with him, Wells scouted north along the Auglaize River. On March
                    13, seeing a telltale wisp of smoke, they dismounted and crept up on a trio of Indians. Wells and
                    Miller shot two of the warriors while McClellan subdued the third. To their amazement the prisoner
                    turned out to be Nicholas Miller's younger brother, Christopher, who had willingly remained
                    with his Shawnee captors. Interviewed by Wayne, Christopher declared that the Indians had decided to
                    make peace; but before the prisoners could be gathered in, the British agents Matthew Elliott and
                    Simon Girty had arrived at the council from Detroit with pledges of arms, ammunition, and
                    provisions. Furthermore, as a show of their support, the British were to construct a fort at the
                    Maumee rapids. Various chiefs had then gone to Detroit to confer with British Indian agent Alexander
                    McKee and returned "determined to prosecute the war with the utmost vigor." At the
                    solicitation of Wells the general set Christopher Miller at liberty, and he was added to
                    Wells' detachment of scouts.30
            
            
               
                  28 "Extract of a Letter from an Officer in the Western Army
                        … ," in Cruikshank, Correspondence of John Graves Simcoe,
                        II, 132–33; Wayne's harshly toned letter to the Indian confederacy is in ibid., 131; also see Knopf, Anthony Wayne, 300.
               
                  29 Knopf, Anthony Wayne, 308–309. The Indians
                        had met in council and decided to surrender all prisoners to Wayne; however, they had reached
                        this decision during British Indian agent Alexander McKee's absence. See Cruikshank,
                            Correspondence of John Graves Simcoe, II, 139, 141, 174.
               
                  30 Draper Collection 33S20, 16U126; Knopf, Anthony
                        Wayne, 311. Christopher and Nicholas Miller had been captured by the Shawnees in 1782 near
                        Blue Licks, Kentucky. After the Indian war Christopher Miller settled in Hardin County,
                        Kentucky, and eventually won election to the state legislature. In 1820 Congress voted him a
                        pension for his service with Wells. Draper Collection 16S163; Collins, History of
                            Kentucky, II, 309–10; and U.S., Annals of Congress, 16
                        Cong., 1 Sess. (1819–1820), pp. 898, 2140.
            
            
            Although the rejection of his offer to negotiate came as no surprise to Wayne, he was still not ready
                    to advance further into Indian country because of delays in the receipt of supplies. Instead he sent
                    out occasional raiding parties of friendly Chickasaws as well as constantly employing Wells and his
                    band. By May, 1794, Wells' depredations had become so damaging that the Delawares,
                    Shawnees, and Miamis petitioned McKee to do something about them.31
            
            By June, 1794, Little Turtle had two thousand warriors assembled at the Glaize awaiting the
                    Americans, and, with hunger dissipating his forces, he decided to move south to attack
                    Wayne's supply lines. Accompanied by Girty and Elliott, the Indians marched toward Fort
                    Recovery in twelve open files. American scouting parties noted this movement, and a squad commanded
                    by Wells clashed with a part of one file, killing five Miamis. Wells also provided Wayne with a
                    talkative prisoner who declared that the Indians hoped to isolate the advanced forts from supply
                    convoys. The general ordered Hamtramck to send a large convoy from Cincinnati to Fort Recovery
                    before the Indians could cut off the outpost. The convoy safely deposited supplies on June 29, but
                    as it left the fort on the following day, Little Turtle's warriors struck from ambush,
                    pillaging the convoy and overwhelming a relief column from the fort. Overjoyed by this initial
                    success, the warriors disregarded Little Turtle's advice and attacked the stockade, only to
                    have the cannons that Wells had recovered blast them apart. After two days of costly, futile
                    assaults the disheartened Indians gathered their dead and returned north.32
            
            McKee was enraged that the Indians had so easily thrown away a possible victory, and the only good
                    news he could send his superiors was that Wells and May had been killed in the battle. Even this he
                    had to retract a few days later. The Indians, victorious for so long, were thrown into depression.
                    Little Turtle journeyed to Detroit and demanded to know how much assistance from the British could
                    be relied on. Colonel Richard G. England, the British commandant, made some grand promises, 
                  
                     31 Alexander Gibson to Wayne, April 24, 1794, Wayne Papers;
                            "The Three Nations at the Glaize to Colonel McKee," in Cruikshank, Correspondence of John Graves Simcoe, II, 230.
                  
                     32 The Indian march to and attack on Fort Recovery is described in
                            "Diary of an Officer in the Indian Country," in Cruikshank, Correspondence of John Graves Simcoe, V, 90–94. For Wells'
                            vital role in the affair see Hamtramck to Secretary of War, November 1, 1801, enclosed in
                            Wells to Eustis, June 25, 1809, Letters Received by the Secretary of War, registered series,
                            Record Group 107; Draper Collection 33S232.
               
                     but the chief remained skeptical.33 Upon
                    his return to the Indian camp Little Turtle urged conciliation with the United States. He was
                    rebuked for his counsel by his fellow chiefs and lost his preeminent position among the tribes to
                    Blue Jacket and Turkey Foot.34
            
            It was at this time of Indian disunion that Wayne led his Legion, augmented by 1,600 mounted
                    Kentuckians under General Scott, forward. Instead of marching toward Kekionga as had the other
                    American armies, Wayne drove straight for the Indian camps below the newly constructed British Fort
                    Miami. At the Glaize he paused long enough to construct Fort Defiance on the former site of many
                    Indian councils.
            Wayne called on Wells to scout Fort Miami and bring back a prisoner for interrogation. On August 11
                    Wells, with Christopher Miller, McClellan, May, and Dodson Thorp, all dressed and painted as
                    Indians, inspected the British fort and nearby Indian camps. After surveying the post and its
                    environs for a day, they captured a Shawnee warrior and his wife and headed back to Fort Defiance.
                    About twenty miles from the American post they came upon a small camp of Delawares, and Wells
                    decided to inspect it. Taking May and McClellan with him, Wells rode boldly into the camp and
                    dismounted before the fire. The Indians, suspecting nothing, talked at length with the disguised
                    Americans about their plans. However, one of the warriors recognized May and whispered his
                    suspicions to a companion. Overhearing this, Wells ordered his men to shoot, and each killed a
                    nearby Indian. Drawing their tomahawks, they fought their way to their horses and galloped away from
                    the surprised Indians, but not before McClellan was shot in the shoulder and Wells in the left
                    wrist. As soon as they outdistanced any pursuit, Christopher Miller hurried to Fort Defiance for
                    aid, and Wayne dispatched a company of dragoons to bring in the wounded scouts.35
            
            From Wells' Shawnee prisoners it was learned that the Indians, about 1,500 strong, were
                    camped at McKee's trading 
                  
                     33 Cruikshank, Correspondence of John Graves Simcoe,
                            II, 305, 334, 341.
                  
                     34 Brice, History of Fort Wayne, 148–49.
                  
                     35 William Clark was impressed with this remarkable adventure and the
                            "enterprising young man" who led it. [McGrane], "William
                            Clark's Journal," 424–25. The escapade is also noted in Smith,
                                From Greene Ville to Fallen Timbers, 276; McDonald, Biographical Sketches, 192–95; and Draper Collection 9BB56, 9BB64,
                            9J211, 3S172, 14U132–33. A British account is in Cruikshank, Correspondence of John Graves Simcoe, II, 371; and John Bricknell, "John
                            Bricknell's Captivity Among the Delaware Indians," American
                                Pioneer, I (February, 1842), 52.
               
                     house about a mile from Fort Miami. McKee had gone to Detroit
                    to gather more British militiamen to aid the Indians, who planned to fight at the Maumee rapids.
                    Wayne decided on one final overture of peace and on August 13 sent Christopher Miller forward with a
                    message offering to open negotiations and warning the Indians not to be "deceived or led
                    astray by the false promises and language of the bad White Men at the foot of the Rapids
                    …. " On August 16 Miller returned with the Indians' reply that they
                    desired ten days to consider the offer. Realizing that the tribesmen were stalling in order to
                    gather more warriors, Wayne advanced to within five miles of Fort Miami, burning abandoned Indian
                    camps and crops along the way.36
            
            Between the Legion and the British fort lay an eerie forest where some ancient tornado had tossed
                    about the trees, leaving a tangled mass of twisted limbs. Here the warriors of the confederacy
                    gathered to meet the American army. On August 17 Wayne sent May forward to inspect the fallen
                    timbers, but the scout fell in with a party of Indians and was captured. Overjoyed at taking one of
                    the hated scouts, the Indians tied May to a tree near Fort Miami, placed a mark on his chest, and
                    riddled him with over fifty bullets.37
            
            This act of provocation did not stampede Wayne into action. He now played a waiting game with the
                    Indians, delaying his advance for two days. On the third day a heavy rain fell, and Wells, realizing
                    that the warriors had been fasting before battle, urged Wayne to attack while the Indians took
                    advantage of the storm to slip back to their camps for food. As soon as the rain abated, Wayne sent
                    his Legion forward, and it quickly shattered the ranks of the remaining Indians. While the infantry
                    put those who stood their ground to the bayonet, the cavalry chased retreating warriors almost to
                    the British fort. The Indians who managed to reach Fort Miami found the gates closed and the
                    faithless British deaf to their pleas for help.38 The battle was not
                    particularly costly for either side, with Indian losses numbering less than a hundred and
                    Wayne's 
                  
                     36 Quotation from Philadelphia Gazette of the United
                                States, October 2, 1794; and Cruikshank, Correspondence of John Graves
                                Simcoe, II, 372, 387; see also [McGrane], "William Clark's
                            Journal," 425–26.
                  
                     37 Draper Collection 9BB56, 9J212; Bricknell, "John
                            Bricknell's Captivity Among the Delaware," 52; and Milo M. Quaife, ed.,
                            "General James Wilkinson's Narrative of the Fallen Timbers
                            Campaign," Mississippi Valley Historical Review, XVI (June,
                            1929), 83.
                  
                     38 For Wells' advice to Wayne see Draper Collection 5U124.
                            Details of the battle are in Jacobs, Beginning of the U.S. Army,
                            174–76.
               
                     losses under fifty, but it destroyed Indian confidence in their
                    own military power, proved British promises worthless, and secured peace on the frontier until 1811.
            To hold the newly won territory Wayne ordered a fort constructed at the vital Maumee portage, near
                    the great Miami town of Kekionga. By the fall of 1794 the post was completed and named in honor of
                    the general. Leaving a detachment at Fort Wayne the general returned the bulk of his army to Fort
                    Greeneville while Wells, Christopher Miller, and other messengers went out to call the chiefs to a
                    great council in the summer of 1795.39
            
            By June, 1,100 chiefs and warriors had assembled at Greeneville, and with Wells acting as chief
                    interpreter Wayne negotiated with the Indians for nearly a month. On August 3, 1795, a treaty was
                    completed by which the tribesmen transferred to the United States twenty-five thousand square miles
                    of territory in return for $20,000 in goods and an annuity of $9,500 in trade
                    goods to be divided among twelve tribes. The bargain price averaged out to less than one sixth of a
                    cent per acre.40
            
            After the treaty settlement Wells' scouts, who had been employed since Fallen Timbers with
                    the disagreeable duty of hunting army deserters, were disbanded. Wells remained with the army as an
                    interpreter, accompanying Hamtramck to Detroit in July, 1796, to take possession of that place from
                    the British. Arriving at Detroit in August, Wayne dispatched Wells and Christopher Miller with a
                    delegation of Indian chiefs, including Little Turtle, to the capital at Philadelphia. At the same
                    time he wrote Secretary of War James McHenry in praise of Wells and urged that on account of the
                    scout's "very essential services" and disabled arm a liberal pension
                    should be awarded him. Upon Wells' arrival at the capital in November, 1796, a pension of
                    twenty dollars per month was given him.41
            
            
               
                  39 Wayne to Wells, March 19, 1795, Wayne Papers; and Griswold, Fort Wayne: Gateway of the West, 14–15.
               
                  40 The minutes of the treaty proceedings are in American
                            State Papers: Indian Affairs, I, 566–78. A British account is in Cruikshank,
                            Correspondence of John Graves Simcoe, IV, 71–72.
               
                  41 Wayne to Wells, November 20, 1795, Wayne Papers. The government
                        rewarded Wells liberally. Between September, 1793, and August, 1795, he was paid nearly two
                        thousand dollars in wages and subsistence, an enormous amount of cash on the frontier.
                        "The United States Account with William Wells," and "Subsistence
                        account of William Wells from 13 Sept. 93 to 30 June 1794," Northwest Territory
                        Collection (Indiana Historical Society, Indianapolis). For Wayne's pension
                        recommendation see Knopf, Anthony Wayne, 532–33; and Draper
                        Collection 4U145, 11YY11. In 1808 Congress granted Wells a preemption of 320 acres of land near
                        Fort Wayne. Valley of the Upper Maumee River (2 vols., Madison, 1889), I,
                    199.
            
            
            
               Howard chandler Christy's painting of "The Treaty of Greenville"  hangs in the Capital Building at Columbus, Ohio
               Reproduced from Dwight L, Smith, Wayne's Peace with the Indians of the Old
                            Northwest, 1795 (Fort Wayne, n.d.), 10–11.
            
            
            
               LINE DRAWING OF THE PRINCIPAL FIGURES IN THE PAINTING
               Reproduced from Dwight L. Smith, Wayne's Peace with the Indians of the Old
                            Northwest, 1795 (Fort Wayne, n.d.), 12.
            
            
            On November 29 Wells and Little Turtle met with President George Washington, who presented the chief
                    with several gifts, including a ceremonial sword, as tangible proof of his "esteem and
                    friendship." Little Turtle quickly became a celebrity in the Quaker City. He sat for a
                    portrait by Gilbert Stuart, was inoculated for smallpox by Benjamin Rush, and met with the Polish
                    patriot Thaddeus Kosciusko, who presented him with a brace of pistols and the belated advice to use
                    them against "the first man who ever comes to subjugate you."42
            
            While in Philadelphia, Wells pressed Secretary of War McHenry for an appointment in the Indian
                    department, and upon his return to Fort Wayne he wrote Hamtramck that he "was encouraged
                    and hopeful" of obtaining a position. In the winter of 1797 Wells and Little Turtle
                    returned to the capital to meet with President John Adams, who found the chief to be "a
                    remarkable man" and sought to make him "happy here and contented after his
                    return" home. One of the means employed to insure the chief's contentment was the
                    appointment of Wells as interpreter and deputy Indian agent at a salary of three hundred dollars per
                    year. His future seemingly secure, Wells returned with his Indian benefactor to Fort Wayne, stopping
                    first at Louisville to obtain a half dozen slaves from his brother. At Fort Wayne he established his
                    family across the river from the post and began raising hogs, planting corn, and laying out orchards
                    on the large acreage he owned in conjunction with Hamtramck.43
            
            Wells' appointment as agent came under the 1793 trade and intercourse act which authorized
                    the president to appoint "temporary agents, to reside among the Indians." With the
                    establishment of the Indiana Territory in 1800 Wells temporarily lost his position until reappointed
                    by President Thomas Jefferson as of January 1, 1802, at a salary of six hundred dollars a year, plus
                    rations. As agent for the Miamis, Delawares, 
                  
                     42 John Alexander Carroll and Mary Wells Ashworth, George
                                Washington: First in Peace (New York, 1957), 420; George W. Corner, ed., The Autobiography of Benjamin Rush (Princeton, 1948), 240; Young, Little Turtle, 147.
                  
                     43 Charles Robert Poinsatte, "A History of Fort Wayne,
                            Indiana, from 1716 to 1829: A Study of its Early Development as a Frontier Village"
                            (M.A. thesis, Department of History, Notre Dame University, 1951), 68; James Wilkinson to
                            James McHenry, November 27, 1810, Letters Received by the Secretary of War, registered
                            series, Record Group 107; McHenry to Wells, November 28, 1810, James McHenry File (Chicago
                            Historical Society). By 1812 Wells owned eleven slaves. "An Inventory and
                            appraisement of the slaves and personal estate of William Wells … ,"
                            Jefferson County Inventory and Settlements, Book 3 (March, 1812-May, 1815), pp.
                            31–33, Jefferson County Courthouse, Louisville, Kentucky.
               
                     Weas, Eel Rivers, and some Potawatomies, Wells was responsible
                    for distributing annuities, granting trade licenses, holding councils, promoting civilization, and
                    ensuring harmonious relations between the Indians and the government. He was responsible to both the
                    governor of the territory and the secretary of war. To complicate jurisdictional matters further, as
                    of July, 1802, he had to share authority with the manager, or factor, of an Indian trading house who
                    could also grant trading licenses, distribute goods, and conduct trade with the Indians.44
            
            Wells had hoped to secure the lucrative position of factor for himself, and his relationship with
                    John Johnston, an Irish immigrant with political connections who had failed as a storekeeper and law
                    clerk before obtaining the appointment as factor, was frigid from its inception. Johnston had little
                    use for a crude frontiersman like Wells. His conviction that an ill-educated, uncouth squawman could
                    not honestly rise to a position of wealth and power such as Wells possessed preyed on his mind until
                    it became an obsession. Wells, who resented any interference with "his" people,
                    returned Johnston's hatred measure for measure. Their corrosive relationship dominated the
                    operation of Indian affairs in northern Indiana until 1812.45
            
            With William Henry Harrison, the young governor of Indiana Territory, Wells could hope for a warmer
                    relationship. They had become close friends during the Indian war when Harrison had served as
                    Wayne's adjutant, and after Fallen Timbers Harrison had helped to educate Wells in the
                    customs and manners of white people. In 1801 Harrison had described Wells to the secretary of war as
                    "a sober, active and faithful public Servant [whose] knowledge of the Indian language and
                    manners, is much greater than that of any other person." At the same time he had secured
                    Wells a profitable appointment as justice of the peace.46
            
            
               
                  44 Gayle Thornbrough, ed., Letter Book of the Indian Agency
                            at Fort Wayne, 1809–1815 (Indianapolis, 1961), 10–11. The
                        mechanics of federal Indian policy are described in Francis Paul Prucha, American
                            Indian Policy in the Formative Years: The Indian Trade and Intercourse Acts,
                            1790–1834 (Cambridge, 1962), 41–101, while the intellectual
                        background is discussed in Bernard Sheehan, Seeds of Extinction: Jeffersonian
                            Philanthropy and the American Indian (Chapel Hill, 1973).
               
                  45 A highly favorable biography of Johnston is Leonard U. Hill, John Johnston and the Indians in the Land of the Three Miamis (Piqua, Ohio,
                        1957).
               
                  46 Moses Dawson, A Historical Narrative of the Civil and
                            Military Services of Major-General William H. Harrison … (Cincinnati, 1824),
                        467; William Henry Harrison to Henry Dearborn, September 1, 1801, enclosed in Wells to Eustis,
                        June 25, 1809, Letters Received by the Secretary of War, registered series, Record Group 107;
                        William Wesley Woollen, Daniel Wait Howe, and Jacob Piatt Dunn, Executive Journal
                            of Indiana Territory, 1800–1816 (Indiana Historical Society Publications,
                        Vol. III, No. 3; Indianapolis, 1900), 103.
            
            
            The Harrison-Wells friendship would falter, however, when Harrison's ambitions clashed with
                    Wells' allegiance to the Miamis. Harrison was, above all else, an ambitious man. A
                    political gadfly, he had been appointed to office by the Federalists but after the election of
                    Thomas Jefferson had diligently labored to convince the new president of his loyalty. Jefferson was
                    convinced that the salvation of the Indians rested upon their adaptation to agricultural pursuits,
                    and to secure this end he felt it essential to deprive them of the lands that allowed the
                    continuation of their hunter-gatherer economy. Harrison promised to do everything in his power to
                    "contribute toward the success of [the] administration by my humble exertions to place upon
                    a better footing the affairs of the wretched Indians." Toward this end he negotiated six
                    treaties between 1803 and 1805 which secured for the United States millions of acres of valuable
                        land.47 These treaties, however, also contributed to the rise of Tecumseh
                    and the collapse of Indian relations prior to the War of 1812.
            Wells' concern over Harrison's machinations led to his first severe clash with the
                    government. Wells, working closely with Little Turtle, was committed to retaining as much land as
                    possible by presenting a united Indian front in all negotiations with the whites. Retention of Miami
                    lands was a point of honor for Wells, for he had transmitted a government promise to the Miamis that
                    whites would never settle north of the White River, and he intended to keep that pledge.48
            
            Although Harrison had successfully acquired title to over a million acres of land around Vincennes
                    through the Treaty of Fort Wayne on June 7, 1803, he was plagued by the opposition of Little Turtle
                    and surprised by the reluctance of Wells to be of help. When Harrison negotiated a treaty with the
                    Delawares and the Piankashaws in August, 1804, for land which the Miamis claimed was jointly owned,
                    Wells' opposition became obvious. Enraged, Harrison asked Secretary of War Henry Dearborn
                    to reprimand the agent, complaining that "Wells has certainly not exerted himself to pacify
                    the Indians who have taken offence at the late Treaties … " The territorial
                    governor felt that Wells was lying about the depth of Indian dissatisfaction and warned Dearborn
                    that "when Wells speaks of the 
                  
                     47 For a defense of Harrison's actions see Dorothy Burne
                            Goebel, William Henry Harrison: A Political Biography (Indiana Historical
                                Collections, Vol. XIV; Indianapolis, 1926), 89–127. Quotation is from
                                ibid., 930.
                  
                     48
                            Dawson, Historical Narrative, 26.
               
                     Miami Nation being of this or that opinion he must be
                    understood as meaning no more than the Turtle and himself." Harrison was perplexed as to
                    why his friend had turned on him and, unable to comprehend Wells' loyalty to the Miamis,
                    could only imagine that Wells was jealous of his position.49
            
            Harrison decided to visit Fort Wayne and confront Wells, but before he could leave Vincennes, he
                    received two letters from the agent relaying messages from the Delawares expressing dissatisfaction
                    with the Vincennes treaty. The governor now began to see a grand conspiracy forming, with Wells at
                    its center. "This man," he warned Dearborn, "will not rest until he has
                    persuaded the Indians that their very existence depends upon rescinding the Treaty with the
                    Delawares and Piankeshaws. My knowledge of his character induces me to believe that he will go any
                    length and use any means to carry a favorite point and much mischief may ensue from his knowledge of
                    the Indians, his cunning and his perserverance." Fearing that his appearance at Fort Wayne
                    might give Wells and the Indians an exaggerated sense of their importance, Harrison sent his
                    secretary, John Gibson, and Colonel Francis Vigo as his emissaries.50
            
            Gibson and Vigo found the Indians divided between factions supporting the Vincennes treaty and
                    factions following Little Turtle—with most of the young warriors opposed to the treaty.
                    From what evidence they could gather the emissaries became convinced that Wells was allied with
                    Little Turtle, that he had urged the Miamis to unite and protect their rights, and that he obviously
                    was "more attached to the Indians than to the people of the United States." After
                    a frigid meeting with Wells, the two men met with a number of local Indians and then returned to
                    Vincennes to report to Harrison.51
            
            Frustrated in his hope of using Wells as a tool to dispossess the Indians, the governor now decided
                    to destroy the agent's reputation by accusing him of dishonesty. Wells, Harrison wrote
                    Dearborn, made more money than any man in the territory, and he quoted Johnston as saying that Wells
                    had cleared over six thousand dollars in 1804. Harrison, without evidence, accused Wells of making
                    this money by defrauding the Indians 
                  
                     49 Anson, Miami Indians, 146–48; Harrison
                            to Dearborn, March 3, 1803, in Logan Esarey, ed., Messages and Letters of William Henry
                            Harrison (2 vols., Indiana Historical Collections, Vols. I, II; Indianapolis, 1922), I,
                            76–84. This letter is misdated in Esarey; it was actually written in 1805.
                  
                     50 Harrison to Dearborn, April 26, May 27, 1805, in Esarey, Messages and Letters, I, 125, 133.
                  
                     51 John Gibson and Francis Vigo to Harrison, July 6, 1805, ibid., 141–46.
               
                     of their annuities and by giving favorable government contracts
                    to friends. If Wells could not be brought into line, Harrison wanted him removed, not only from
                    office but from the territory as well.52
            
            Wells and Little Turtle realized that if they hoped to thwart Harrison they would need powerful
                    allies and so sought the aid of Wilkinson. Little Turtle, through Wells, wrote to Wilkinson and
                    accused Harrison of contradicting the benevolent policy of Jefferson. Harrison, the chief declared,
                    was creating new chiefs and investing Indians with land titles in order to facilitate the
                    acquisition of the same lands. Little Turtle had hoped that the Indians could hold onto their lands
                    until a time when they could get a better price for them, but their future welfare had been
                    sacrificed so that Harrison could "make himself a great man at the expense of the
                    Indians." If only Wilkinson would convey these facts to the president, Little Turtle felt
                    certain that Jefferson would rectify the injustices. Wells added that he was "certain that
                    the Indians would wish a war with the United States rather than sell the lands" if they
                    could secure foreign aid.53
            
            By including a threat of war Wells overplayed his hand because the government knew the Indians did
                    not then possess the resources for an uprising. Although Dearborn agreed to give the Delawares
                    "a small sum to quit their pretended right & Title," he would not budge on
                    the Miami claim, warning Wells that the government would "not be driven by threats into any
                    measures of accomadation." He further warned the agent to confine his correspondence to the
                    War Department and Harrison and added that if Wells' attitude did not change he would be
                        removed.54
            
            Pressure from Harrison's office was forcing many of the Indians to comply with the
                    Delaware-Piankashaw treaty of 1804 so that Wells and Little Turtle became increasingly isolated. It
                    was also clear that Jefferson's sympathy with the Indians did not run as deep as they had
                    supposed. These facts, combined with the danger of Wells losing his job, led the agent and Little
                    Turtle to meet with Harrison at Vincennes in August, 1805, and to assist him in negotiating a treaty
                    by which 
                  
                     52 Harrison to Dearborn, July 10, 1805, ibid.,
                            147–49.
                  
                     53 Wells to Wilkinson, October 6, 1804, enclosed in Wilkinson to
                            Dearborn, December 13, 1804, Letters Received by the Secretary of War, registered series,
                            Record Group 107.
                  
                     54 Indian Office Letter Book B, pp. 22, 35, 438, Records of the Office
                            of the Secretary of War, microfilm (Indiana State Library, Indianapolis).
               
                     most of southeastern Indiana was ceded to the government. Wells
                    and Little Turtle managed to secure all the annuities from this sale for the Miamis in exchange for
                    agreeing to the disputed Delaware-Piankashaw treaty. An elated Harrison wrote Dearborn that he and
                    Wells had "agreed to a general amnesty and act of oblivion for the past" and that
                    the friendly disposition of the agent was now assured. Dearborn was not yet convinced that Wells
                    could be trusted but found Harrison's report of a rapprochement "not
                        uninteresting."55
            
            Wells' troubles with his employers, however, were far from over. He and Little Turtle had
                    long been convinced that Indian survival depended upon their adoption of an agricultural way of
                    life. When they had visited the capital in the winter of 1801, Little Turtle had asked that
                    "ploughs and other necessary tools" be placed in Wells' hands so that he
                    might teach the Indians "to reap the advantage of cultivating the Earth." During
                    the same trip they met with Quaker delegations in Philadelphia and Baltimore to request aid in
                    teaching the Miamis to farm.56 As a result, a delegation of Baltimore Quakers
                    visited Fort Wayne in 1804 and left a young volunteer, Philip Dennis, to spend the summer with the
                    Indians teaching them to farm. Dennis found the Indians fascinated by his labors but unwilling to
                    share in them. Every day groups of warriors would find seats along the fence or in the trees around
                    Dennis' farm and watch him plow and hoe, but they steadfastly refused to help. In the
                    autumn the frustrated philanthropist harvested his crops, turned them over to the chiefs, and
                    returned to Maryland.57
            
            Little Turtle realized that his proud people would never accept the teachings of white strangers;
                    thus, he devised a plan by which the Miamis would set aside a portion of their annuities for a
                    civilization project if the government would also contribute funds. Before this plan could be put
                    into operation, the Baltimore Quakers sent out another such project under William Kirk, who also
                    received a six-thousand-dollar grant 
                  
                     55 Harrison to Dearborn, August 10, 26, 1805, in Esarey, Messages and
                                Letters, I, 161–63; Dearborn to Harrison, October 11, 1805,
                                ibid., 169–70; Anson, Miami Indians,
                            147–48. It is interesting to note that Wells' counterpart in the British
                            Indian service, Matthew Elliott, was also distrusted by his superiors because of his
                            marriage to an Indian and sympathies for the Indian's plight. See Reginald Horsman,
                            "British Indian Policy in the Northwest, 1807–1812," Mississippi Valley Historical Review, XLV (June, 1958), 60–61.
                  
                     56 Hill, John Johnston, 17. For Little
                            Turtle's views on agriculture see Volney, View of the Soil,
                            384–85.
                  
                     57 Tyson, Mission to the Indians, 75–76,
                            182.
               
                     from the government. Although Wells was displeased at not being
                    entrusted with the project, he called a council in May, 1807, and attempted to reconcile the Indians
                    to Kirk. It was useless, however, for Little Turtle and the friendly chiefs were convinced that
                    Kirk, who had visited Fort Wayne in 1806 and had learned of Little Turtle's plan, had
                    presented the project to the Quakers as originating with himself. Not only had Kirk stolen their
                    project from under them, but he had spent over half the allocated funds before reaching Fort
                        Wayne.58
            
            Those Indians not near Fort Wayne, and especially those who were falling under the spell of the
                    Shawnee Prophet's call for a rejection of white culture, were adamant in their dislike of
                    Kirk. "We do not need anyone to teach us how to work," a Delaware warrior
                    declared. "If we want to work we know how to do it according to our own way and as it
                    pleases us."59 In the face of such opposition Wells urged Kirk to delay
                    his plans to set up model farms at various villages, but the Quaker refused to listen. Since he
                    could not set up operations at Fort Wayne, Kirk set out for Five Medals' Potawatomie
                    village on the Elkhart River. Kirk, with a number of wagons, had proceeded about sixty miles when he
                    was surrounded by warriors and forced to return to Fort Wayne. The warriors demanded of Wells that
                    no more wagons traverse their lands, declaring them to be symbols of Indian slavery to the white
                    man. Wells was greatly relieved when Kirk, soon after his abortive wagon expedition, moved his
                    project to the relative safety of the Shawnee villages in Ohio where he hoped to meet with more
                        success.60
            
            Kirk, before moving, sent a blistering attack on Wells to the secretary of war and was backed up by
                    Johnston, who now saw an opportunity to destroy his old enemy. In a private letter to Dearborn, who
                    was a personal friend, Johnston claimed that "the civilizing plan has been a source of much
                    profit to Mr. Wells." He also asserted that the agent had sabotaged Kirk's 
                  
                     58 Clarence Edwin Carter, comp. and ed., The Territorial
                                Papers of the United States: The Territory of Indiana, 1800–1810
                            (Washington, 1939), 469–70. For an overview of the civilization projects see Paul
                            Woehrmann, At the Headwaters of the Maumee: A History of the Forts of Fort
                                Wayne (Indianapolis, 1971), 105–41; and Joseph A. Parsons, Jr.,
                            "Civilizing the Indians of the Old Northwest, 1800–1810," Indiana Magazine of History, LVI (September, 1960), 195–216.
                  
                     59 Quoted in Lawrence Henry Gipson, ed., The Moravian
                                Indian Mission on White River: Diaries and Letters, May 5, 1799, to November 12,
                            1806 (Indianapolis, 1938), 450.
                  
                     60 Draper Collection 11YY22; Woehrmann, At the Headwaters
                                of the Maumee, 127.
               
                     work in order to secure those funds for himself. Johnston wrote
                    to Harrison at the same time, pointing to the Kirk affair as further evidence that Wells had
                    "so long travelled in the crooked, miry paths of intrigue and deception, that he never
                    could … pursue a straight, fair, and honorable course …. "61
            
            Johnston's accusations found a receptive audience in Dearborn who rudely brushed aside
                    Wells' explanation of the affair, warning the agent that "no subterfuge [would] be
                    admitted to extenuate the evident impropriety of your conduct … At all events, one or two
                    things must be a fact, either that you possess no kind of useful influence with the chiefs in your
                    agency or that you make improper use of what you possess. In either case you cannott be considered
                    as well qualified for the place you hold."62
            
            While it seems evident that Wells did not overly exert himself to promote Kirk among the Indians, it
                    is also clear that he had good reason for his action other than his usual jealousy of anyone who
                    interfered with his agency. From the first he doubted Kirk's honesty, and indeed Kirk was
                    dismissed by Dearborn in 1808 for misuse of funds. More important, however, was the precarious state
                    of Indian affairs resulting from the rising influence of the Shawnee Prophet and his brother
                    Tecumseh. Kirk's activities only agitated an already sensitive situation, for by April,
                    1807, the brothers had assembled over four hundred Indians at Greeneville, Ohio, causing
                    considerable consternation along the frontier. Wells' demand that the Indians disperse was
                    met by Tecumseh's haughty reply that he would have no dealings with a man of such low rank
                    as Wells. The agent's requests for instructions from the War Department were dismissed by
                    Dearborn, whose judgment was so distorted by his dislike of Wells that he could perceive no danger
                    from Tecumseh.63
            
            
               
                  61 Johnston to Dearborn, May 31, 1807, Letters Received by the Secretary
                        of War, registered series, Record Group 107; Johnston to Harrison, June 24, 1810, in Esarey, Messages and Letters, I, 432. For Wells' defense see Wells to Eustis,
                        June 25, 1809, Letters Received by the Secretary of War, registered series, Record Group 107. In
                        a letter to historian Benjamin Drake in 1840, Johnston agrees entirely with Wells that Kirk
                        failed because of Indian hostility engendered by the Prophet. Draper Collection 11YY22.
               
                  62 Dearborn to Wells, August 5, 1807, Indian Office Letter Book B, p. 326,
                        Records of the Office of the Secretary of War.
               
                  63 Benjamin Drake, Life of Tecumseh, and of his Brother The
                            Prophet (Cincinnati, 1841), 91–93; Dearborn to Wells, May 15, 1807, Indian
                        Office Letter Book B, p. 313, Records of the Office of the Secretary of War; Wells to Dearborn,
                        July 14, 1807, in Carter, Territorial Papers: Indiana Territory,
                            1800–1810, p. 465.
            
            
            Getting no satisfaction from Dearborn, Wells turned to Harrison, warning the governor that
                    "something must be done [and] it cannot be done too soon for the Indians are certainly
                    forming an improper combination … " Even some of the Miamis were being won over,
                    and Wells reported that "we are all allarmed at this place [Fort Wayne] my self excepted as
                    I can see no danger as yet at our doors." Harrison, in complete agreement with Wells, went
                    before the territorial assembly to warn that "at no very distant period we shall be
                    involved in hostilities with some of the Indian tribes."64
            
            The Shawnee brothers, however, had no plans to attack the whites in 1807 because they needed time to
                    gather strength. Along with the Prophet's call for cultural purity, Tecumseh added a more
                    ambitious plan for tribal unity. In order to achieve this Indian confederation the brothers and
                    their followers used rhetoric, strongarm tactics, and assassination to quell Indian opposition. For
                    over a decade the British in Canada had attempted to disrupt Indian relations to the south, and
                    Tecumseh, who had not forgotten Fallen Timbers, now allied himself with them. He allowed the British
                    to believe that they had him under control while he milked them for weapons and supplies. Both Wells
                    and Harrison were as duped as the British, for they both underrated Tecumseh's independence
                    and considered the British at the bottom of Indian dissatisfaction.65
            
            The crisis ended abruptly in the fall of 1807 when most of Tecumseh's followers returned to
                    their agencies to gather government annuities and spend the winter. Wells, through the careful
                    manipulation of friendly chiefs, encouraged the Indians to desert Tecumseh. Thus, by the spring of
                    1808, when the Shawnee brothers moved from Greeneville to a camp on the Tippecanoe River, their
                    following had dwindled to less than one hundred. The winter of 1807–1808 was hard on the
                    tribes since so many of the warriors had spent the summer with Tecumseh instead of hunting, but when
                    Wells requested extra supplies for them, he was reprimanded by Dearborn. The secretary felt that
                        
                  
                     64 Wells to Harrison, August 20, 1807, in Esarey, Messages and Letters, I, 239–43, 247–48; Gayle Thornbrough
                            and Dorothy Riker, eds., Journals of the General Assembly of Indiana Territory,
                                1805–1815 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXXII; Indianapolis,
                            1950), 151.
                  
                     65 For British policy in this period see Horsman, "British
                            Indian Policy," 53–59. Wells, Harrison, and the Chicago agent Charles
                            Jouett were convinced of British complicity. See Wells to Dearborn, August 14, December 31,
                            1807, Letters Received by the Secretary of War, registered series, Record Group 107; and
                            Jouett to Dearborn, December 1, 1807, in Carter, Territorial Papers: Indiana
                                Territory, 1800–1810, pp. 496–97.
               
                     if the Indians had been idle "they ought to
                    suffer" for it, and to insure that Wells did not feed them he instructed the agent to
                    consult with Johnston on all agency matters. Dearborn cautioned Johnston to supervise Wells closely
                    for he had lost "Confidence in his Integrity" and now feared that the agent
                    calculated "on making money by supplying the Indians."66
            
            Wells had no choice but to comply with Dearborn's wishes, although he reminded the secretary
                    that only "a liberal treatment" would keep the Indians friendly to the United
                    States. Realizing that his position was becoming untenable, Wells asked for permission to bring a
                    number of important chiefs to Washington. He hoped to be able to clear up matters with Dearborn and
                    at the same time to impress the chiefs with the power of the government. Wells also requested a few
                    months' leave to visit with his daughters in Kentucky, where they had been living with
                    Samuel Wells since the death of Sweet Breeze. Although the agent had kept his two sons with him, one
                    had been killed in an accident in March, which fact made Wells all the more anxious to leave Fort
                    Wayne for a while.67
            
            Dearborn agreed to the request, and in September, 1808, Wells traveled to Washington with his son,
                    William Wayne Wells, and seven chiefs—Little Turtle and Richardville of the Miamis,
                    Marpock and Raven of the Potawatomies, Black Hoof of the Shawnees, Beaver of the Delawares, and
                    Captain Hendrick of the Stockbridges—whom he considered "the commanding trumps
                    of this country."68 The delegation spent most of December in the
                    capital visiting with officials and philanthropists. The Indians received no satisfaction from the
                    government regarding their complaints of white encroachment upon their lands. Jefferson
                    sanctimoniously declared that he had "always believed it an act of friendship to our red
                    brethren whenever they wished to sell a portion of their lands, to be ready to buy whether we wanted
                    them or not …. " He warned 
                  
                     66 Dearborn to Wells, March 10, 1808, Indian Office Letter Book B, p.
                            362, Records of the Office of the Secretary of War; and Dearborn to Johnston, March 10,
                            1808, ibid., 361. Wells had been reprimanded before for providing too
                            generously for the Indians. See Arthur St. Clair to Wells, August 13, 1800, Northwest
                            Territory Collection; and Dearborn to Wells, March 7, 1803, Indian Office Letter Book A, p.
                            334, Records of the Office of the Secretary of War.
                  
                     67 Wells to Dearborn, April 2, 20, 1808, in Carter, Territorial Papers: Indiana Territory, 1800–1810, pp. 540,
                            555–58; Wells to Dearborn, June 5, 30, 1808, Letters Received by the Secretary of
                            War, registered series, Record Group 107.
                  
                     68 Wells to Dearborn, September 30, November 19, 1808, Letters
                            Received by the Secretary of War, registered series, Record Group 107.
               
                     the chiefs to avoid war, gave them a few presents to insure
                    their loyalty, and sent them on their way.69
            
            Although the trip proved unfruitful for the Indians, Wells was hopeful that he had convinced Dearborn
                    to continue him as agent. He had also pointed out to the secretary the many extra services he had
                    rendered the department without pay. With his affairs thus seemingly in order he proceeded homeward
                    with the chiefs. The trip was not an easy one for Marpock who was constantly drunk and who on one
                    occasion attempted to kill and eat his wife. To make matters worse the Delaware chief, Beaver, fell
                    behind the party. The behavior of Marpock made it impossible for Wells to wait on the Beaver, and he
                    hurried the delegation back to Fort Wayne.70
            
            The Beaver had purposely lagged behind. He was soon back in Washington complaining to Dearborn that
                    Wells had often defaulted on the Delawares' annuities and that during the visit he had
                    repeatedly refused to translate complaints about his agency to officials. Although most of the
                    Beaver's complaints related to money withheld by order of the government for horses stolen
                    in 1796, his accusations were the final straw for Dearborn. As one of his last acts as secretary of
                    war he discharged Wells and replaced him with Johnston.71
            
            Wells did not receive his letter of discharge until April 12, 1809, as he had visited Kentucky to see
                    his family and renew his courtship of Mary Geiger, the daughter of an illustrious family. The two
                    were married on March 7 and soon journeyed to Fort Wayne, accompanied by Wells' son and
                    three daughters. Upon their arrival at the fort, Johnston, who must have relished the occasion, gave
                    Wells his letter of dismissal.72
            
            Even after the dismissal Johnston kept up a steady barrage of criticism of Wells in letters to his
                    superiors. He proclaimed the surrounding Indians happy with Wells' discharge and more
                    peaceful than ever. Rumors of Indian hostilities, he told the new secretary of war, William Eustis,
                    were falsely planted by Wells in order to promote his importance in the territory. He 
                  
                     69 Albert Ellery Bergh, ed., The Writings of Thomas
                                Jefferson (20 vols., Washington, 1907), XVI, 441, 443.
                  
                     70 Wells to Dearborn, December 24, 1808, January 16, 1809, Letters
                            Received by the Secretary of War, registered series, Record Group 107.
                  
                     71 Tyson, Mission to the Indians, 192–93;
                            Dearborn to Johnston, January 27, 1809, Indian Office Letter Book B, p. 428–29,
                            Records of the Office of the Secretary of War; Dearborn to Wells, ibid.
                  
                  
                     72 "Jefferson County, Va.-Ky. Early Marriages Book I,
                            1781-July 1826," p. 70, typescript (Filson Club); Wells to Eustis, April 29, 1809,
                            Letters Received by the Secretary of War, registered series, Record Group 107.
               
                     gave as his source for this startling information none other
                    than the Prophet himself. Johnston warned the new secretary not to believe any endorsements of Wells
                    by "officers taking sides with him against their government," for "there
                    does not exist a worse man." As the hostile intentions of the Prophet soon became obvious,
                    and as Wells received endorsements from Harrison, Wilkinson, and Fort Wayne commandant Nathan Heald,
                    Johnston's statements quickly became a source of embarrassment to him.73
            
            Wells was determined to regain his agency and conspired with various chiefs to discredit Johnston and
                    counteract the measures adopted by the new agent. This sorry state of affairs, whereby the two most
                    influential men with the Indians in northern Indiana attempted to vilify each other before the
                    natives, could not have happened at a worse time. Increased pressure from white settlement,
                    Harrison's treaties, and a depressed fur trade had aided the plans of Tecumseh and his
                    one-eyed brother, and by the spring of 1810 they had collected a sizable force at their Tippecanoe
                    village. The Wells-Johnston feud compromised the vital Fort Wayne agency just when a display of
                    governmental strength and competence was essential. For the first time a large number of Miamis
                    allied themselves with the brothers. They were particularly unhappy with the 1809 Treaty of Fort
                    Wayne which forced them to share payment for land in western Indiana with several other tribes
                    although the Miamis claimed sole ownership. They were also displeased to learn that land they had
                    sold one year for two cents an acre was being sold by the government the next year for two dollars
                    an acre. By June, 1810, Harrison was convinced that Indian "envy and jealousy" had
                    ripened into hatred and that war was possible at any time.74
            
            In his effort to regain his agency Wells had made it a point to secure the support of Harrison and
                    had rendered the governor "essential services" during the negotiation of the
                    Treaty of Fort Wayne. As a result, he received an appointment as government interpreter at
                    $365 a year. In securing the job for Wells, Harrison warned Eustis that "if he
                    is not employed and 
                  
                     73 Johnston to Eustis, July 1, 1809, November 6, 1810, Letters
                            Received by the Secretary of War, registered series, Record Group 107. Endorsements for
                            Wells can be found enclosed in Wells to Eustis, June 25, 1809, and in Wilkinson to Eustis,
                            November 27, 1810, ibid. Harrison was surprised by the dismissal and urged
                            Eustis to give Wells a hearing. Harrison to Eustis, October 3, 1809, William Henry Harrison
                            Collection (Chicago Historical Society).
                  
                     74 Esarey, Messages and Letters, I,
                            434–35. For the proceedings of the 1809 Fort Wayne treaty see ibid., I, 362–78.
               
                     remains where he is every measure of the Government will be
                    opposed and thwarted by himself and the Turtle." Wells also had powerful friends in
                    Kentucky, most notably Senator John Pope, who applied pressure on Eustis and Harrison. An
                    exasperated Eustis finally turned the whole matter of Wells' reinstatement over to
                        Harrison.75
            
            In April, 1811, Harrison brought a libel suit against an Indian trader, William McIntosh, who had
                    accused him of defrauding the Indians. Wells' testimony in Harrison's behalf was
                    instrumental in securing the governor four thousand dollars in damages. This put Wells securely in
                    Harrison's good graces, and the governor immediately informed Eustis that Wells'
                    "activity and talents need not be doubted" and that he could now be trusted to
                    resume the Fort Wayne agency. As one politician to another, Harrison candidly informed Eustis that
                    "Wells has a number of respectable connections in Kentucky whom I am anxious to oblige
                    & Mr. Pope and others of the Delegates from that State to Congress have also interseded
                    themselves warmly in his favor." When a frustrated Johnston resigned the agency in
                    September, 1811, Harrison appointed Wells as subagent for the Miami and Eel River tribes along with
                    Johnston's former assistant, John Shaw, as subagent for the Potawatomies.76
            
            Wells had little opportunity to reflect on his triumph. The influence of Tecumseh was creating havoc
                    among the tribes, with the Miamis evenly divided between the followers of Little Turtle and the
                    Shawnees. The dissident Miamis, under the Wea chief Lapoussier, threatened to kill Little Turtle if
                    he continued to accept American annuities. The old chief, although quite ill, faced his enemies in a
                    council near Fort Wayne. "Kill me as soon as you please," he declared, "I
                    can't calculate on living many winters more; but rest assured, kill me when you will, I
                        
                  
                     75 Harrison to Eustis, October 3, 1809, Harrison Collection; Harrison
                            to Eustis, December 3, 1809, William Henry Harrison Miscellaneous Collection (Indiana
                            Historical Society); and Carter, Territorial Papers: Indiana Territory,
                                1800–1810, p. 708. For Senator John Pope's role in securing
                            Wells' appointment see John Pope to Eustis, January 21, 1811, 623W1811, Letters
                            Received, 1805–1889, Records of the Adjutant General's Office, Record
                            Group 94 (National Archives); and Eustis to Harrison, February 12, 1811, Indian Office
                            Letter Book C, p. 62, Records of the Office of the Secretary of War.
                  
                     76 For the McIntosh trial see Cincinnati Western
                            Spy, May 4, 1811; Dawson, Historical Narrative, 175–76;
                            and Harrison to Eustis, April 23, 1811, Harrison Miscellaneous Collection. Also see Harrison
                            to Eustis, January 21, 1811, 623W1811, Letters Received, 1805–1889, Records of
                            the Adjutant General's Office, Record Group 94; and Eustis to Harrison, September
                            23, 1811, Indian Office Letter Book C, p. 99, Records of the Office of the Secretary of
                        War.
               
                    
                    
                  "BATTLE OF TIPPECANOE, GEN. HARRISON'S ENQUIREY [SIC] OF
                            ENSIGN TIPTON" ORIGINAL DRAWING BY WILL VAWTER
                  Courtesy Indiana Historical Society Library, Indianapolis.
               
                     will not die alone." The dissidents then withdrew to
                    Maiden where they received arms and ammunition from the British.77
            
            It was now evident to Wells that war was inevitable. In April, 1811, he and John Conner had traveled
                    to the Prophet's town on the Tippecanoe to secure evidence concerning murders on the
                    Missouri River. Tecumseh denied any part in the killings but made it clear to Wells that he meant to
                    stop the white advance. When Wells scoffed at such a dream, Tecumseh retorted that he would live to
                    see it. Wells' report on the affair, and on subsequent Indian depredations, convinced
                    Harrison that a show of force was necessary. When he learned that Tecumseh had gone south to recruit
                    allies, he decided to strike.78 Harrison's army was composed largely of
                    Kentucky militia under the joint command of Wells' new father-in-law, Colonel Frederick
                    Geiger, and his brother, Colonel Samuel Wells. In the ensuing Battle of Tippecanoe on November 7,
                    1811, the Indians were driven from the field and their village destroyed, but the whites suffered
                    heavy casualties. Although the Prophet's prestige was damaged, the strength of the Indians
                    was not materially diminished, and frontier raids increased as a result of the battle.79
            
            Wells found Harrison's claim of victory to be ludicrous. He knew that the
                    governor's thousand men had faced no more than 350 Indians instead of the seven hundred
                    claimed by Harrison. When Tecumseh returned from the South in January, he declared his intentions to
                    be peaceful, but Wells correctly foresaw that the chief was "determined to raise all the
                    Indians he can, immediately, with an intention, no doubt, to attack our frontiers."80
            
            In the midst of this crisis Little Turtle died of the gout at Wells' home, silencing the
                    most powerful voice of moderation among the tribes. The chief's death cut an important bond
                    holding Wells to Fort Wayne. He decided to resign the appointment he had worked so hard to obtain
                    and return with his 
                  
                     77 Quotation is from Cincinnati Western Spy,
                            September 28, 1811; see also Esarey, Messages and Letters, I, 574.
                  
                     78 Harrison to Eustis, June 6, October 29, 1811, Harrison
                            Miscellaneous Collection.
                  
                     79 Harrison's report on the battle is in Esarey, Messages and Letters, I, 614–15, 618–30. Also see Prucha,
                                Sword of the Republic, 41–42.
                  
                     80 Esarey, Messages and Letters, I, 27; Thornbrough,
                                Letter Book, 111–12. For once Wells and Johnston agreed.
                            Johnston wrote Eustis that Harrison had been "outgeneraled" and that
                            "the late battle has … not conveyed to the natives any great idea of our
                            prowess in war … " Johnston to Eustis, November 28, 1811, Letters
                            Received by the Secretary of War, registered series, Record Group 107.
               
                     pregnant wife to Kentucky. When informed of this by Geiger,
                    Harrison requested Wells to remain at his post since he could accomplish "more than any
                    other person" during the crisis.81
            
            Agreeing to Harrison's plea, Wells sent his children to the relative safety of Piqua, Ohio,
                    under the guidance of his Shawnee friend James Logan. His wife refused to leave, however, and
                    remained with him at Fort Wayne. Soon after the children's departure Indians began to
                    gather in force around the fort, until by August there were over four hundred in the vicinity.
                    Fearful of an attack, especially after news of the declaration of war on Britain reached them, the
                    whites moved into the stockade for safety.82
            
            The nervousness of Fort Wayne's white population was shared by the commander of the Army of
                    the Northwest, General William Hull. When, in late July, 1812, Indian scouts brought Hull word of
                    the fall of Fort Michilimackinac, the general dispatched a runner to Fort Dearborn (Chicago) with
                    orders for the post commander, Captain Nathan Heald, to abandon the fort and march to Fort Wayne or
                    Detroit. A copy of Hull's order was sent to Fort Wayne, and Wells read it with alarm. Since
                    Heald's wife, Rebecca, was his niece, Wells had more than a casual interest in Fort
                    Dearborn's safety. "Affairs in this quarter are rather gloomy," Wells
                    wrote Harrison on August 4. The fall of Michilimackinac and the defeat of a detachment of
                    Hull's troops near Detroit had greatly emboldened the Indians. Wells urged Harrison to
                    gather as large a force as possible and march to Detroit or the Indians would overrun the
                    settlements. Although he feared it was too late to evacuate Fort Dearborn, if indeed it had not
                    already fallen, Wells hoped to cover the garrison's retreat. On August 8, 1812, Wells, with
                    Corporal Walter K. Jordan and thirty Miamis, rode northwest to aid Heald as best he could.83
            
            Arriving at the tiny post on August 13, Wells found the situation to be critical. A number of whites
                    had already been murdered, and several hostile chiefs were camped with their 
                  
                     81 Esarey, Messages and Letters, II,
                            33–34, 68–70. Eustis appointed Benjamin F. Stickney as Indian agent at
                            Fort Wayne in March, 1812, and instructed Harrison to employ Wells elsewhere. This the
                            governor refused to do, believing it vital for Wells to remain at Fort Wayne. Clarence Edwin
                            Carter, comp. and ed., The Territorial Papers of the United States: The
                                Territory of Indiana, 1810–1816 (Washington, 1939), 171.
                  
                     82 Griswold, Fort Wayne: Gateway of the West,
                            54–55.
                  
                     83 Wells to Harrison, August 3, 1812, William Wells Collection; Milo
                            M. Quaife, Checagou: From Indian Wigwam to Modern City,
                            1673–1835 (Chicago, 1933), 122; Prucha, Sword of the
                            Republic, 104–107.
               
                     warriors nearby. Tecumseh had sent runners to inform the
                    Indians, mostly Potawatomies, that Hull had been defeated at Brownstown and was besieged at Detroit.
                    From friends among the Potawatomies Wells learned that warriors under Mad Sturgeon and Black Bird
                    planned to attack the whites as soon as they left the fort. At a council of officers Wells joined
                    his old friend, the Indian trader John Kinzie, in urging Heald to make a stand at Fort Dearborn. But
                    the young captain had his orders, and he would not disobey them. He would abandon the post on August
                        15.84
            
            In desperation Wells called a council with the Indians. He and Heald promised to distribute the
                    fort's stores among them in exchange for a guarantee of safe passage. The Indians,
                    numbering over five hundred, agreed to this, and on August 14 they received all the post goods
                    except arms, ammunition, and liquor, which were destroyed. Many of the warriors were enraged when
                    they realized that the most coveted goods would be denied them, and they met again in council that
                    night to decide on a course of action. At the end of the council, a friendly chief, Black Partridge,
                    met with Wells and Heald at the fort and returned his government peace medal, sadly declaring that
                    he could not restrain his warriors from attacking the whites.85
            
            It was too late to attempt to hold the post even if Heald would agree to it, and at nine in the
                    morning on August 15 the garrison marched out of Fort Dearborn. In the lead rode Wells, dressed as
                    an Indian, his rifle cradled in his arm and a tomahawk and brace of pistols in his belt. Under no
                    illusions, he had painted his face black as was the Miami custom when facing certain death. Half the
                    Miami escort rode behind him, followed by Nathan and Rebecca Heald with the garrison, the women and
                    children who could walk, and the Chicago militia. Next came a train of wagons containing baggage,
                    provisions, and the smaller children. Immediately behind the wagons marched a squad of soldiers and
                    the remaining mounted Miamis. The entire company numbered less than one hundred.86
            
            
               
                  84 Milo M. Quaife, Chicago and the Old Northwest,
                            1673–1835 (Chicago, 1913), 217–19; and Mentor L. Williams,
                        "John Kinzie's Narrative of the Fort Dearborn Massacre," Journal of the Illinois State Historical Society, XLVI (Winter, 1953),
                        347–49.
               
                  85 Quaife, Chicago and the Old Northwest,
                        219–21.
               
                  86 This account of the Fort Dearborn battle is based primarily on the
                        story Darius Heald told Draper and Kirkland. See Draper Collection 23S62–65 and
                        Kirkland, Chicago Massacre, 31–35. Also useful are
                        Draper's interviews with Alexander Robinson and Joseph Bourassa. Draper Collection
                        21S285–87, 23S194–95. The best known account of the battle is Mrs. John H.
                        Kinzie,
            
            
            After a march of about an hour, Wells, riding in advance, suddenly halted. On a rise of sand to his
                    right hundreds of Potawatomies were forming in ambush. Jerking his horse around Wells rode furiously
                    back toward the column, waving his hat in a circle above his head. No sooner had Wells shouted his
                    warning than the Indians opened fire, killing many of Heald's regulars with the first
                    volley. The soldiers then charged in among the warriors, who scattered before them. But while the
                    soldiers drove the Indians from the dunes, another band attacked the civilians around the wagons.
                    Wells' Miamis deserted the field, and within minutes all the militia were killed, leaving
                    the children in the wagons defenseless. Rebecca Heald's slave, Cicely, was hacked to death
                    in a futile attempt to save her infant, who was one of twelve children butchered.
            Wells, seeing this slaughter, spurred his horse back toward the wagons. He never made it, for an
                    Indian bullet crashed into his chest. Bleeding from the mouth and nose, he managed to reach the side
                    of his niece before another Indian volley caught them both, wounding Rebecca and killing
                    Wells' horse. Pinned underneath the animal, Wells brought down one more warrior with his
                    pistol before they were upon him. As Rebecca stared in horror, one warrior chopped off
                    Wells' head and placed it on a lance while another cut open his chest and removed his
                    heart. Hoping thus to gain the dead man's courage the warriors divided the heart among
                    themselves and ate it.87
            
            The tragedy of Wells comes not from his heroic death, however, but rather from his inability to use
                    his unique position to achieve peace and to implement Little Turtle's plan to retain Miami
                    unity and power by the wise sale of some of their lands. Wells' failure resulted from
                    factors beyond his control for, ultimately, he was but the recalcitrant pawn of an expansionist
                    government. During the Indian war he had been a useful tool, and various government agents had
                    utilized his 
                  
                     Wau-bun, the "Early Day" in the Northwest (Chicago,
                            1932), 233–87. The account of Corporal Walter K. Jordan is in John D. Barnhart,
                            ed., "A New Letter about the Massacre at Fort Dearborn," Indiana Magazine of History, XLI (June, 1945), 187–99. A number of
                            personal narratives appear in appendixes to Quaife, Chicago and the Old
                                Northwest, which is also the best account of the Fort Dearborn story.
                  
                     87 Kirkland, Chicago Massacre, 31–35.
                            This account of Wells' death was told to Darius Heald by his mother, Rebecca Heald.
                            The Kinzie family passed down a somewhat different version of Wells' death, but it
                            was not based on eyewitness testimony and seems an unlikely version of what might have
                            happened. See Kinzie, Wau-bun, 266–67. Captain Heald
                            surrendered what was left of his command, and, with the help of Black Partridge, he and
                            Rebecca eventually reached safety.
               
                    
                    
                  "DEATH OF CAPTAIN WM. WELLS" ORIGINAL DRAWING BY WILL VAWTER
                  Courtesy Indiana Historical Society Library, Indianapolis.
               
                     skills to implement policy and crush resistance. By 1812,
                    however, Wells had outlived his usefulness. Although he had adapted to the white style of living and
                    had made a small fortune, he could not discard his notions of honor and loyalty to the Miami tribe.
                    He was unable to practice the subtle deceit so effectively employed by successful federal
                    functionaries like Harrison and Johnston. His reaction to problems was too straightforward and open.
                    When Tecumseh's power reached a critical stage, Wells offered to raise a company of scouts
                    and give battle while Johnston offered to hire an assassin to murder the chief.88 It is an important difference.
            Wells attempted to compromise his beliefs in order to keep his government position for, besides being
                    profitable, it gave him some influence over Indian policy. But the divergent goals of Harrison and
                    Tecumseh, either of which spelled doom for the Miamis, undercut any hope for peace at the very time
                    that Wells' position in the Indian service was in jeopardy. The government, although
                    willing to exploit Wells' talents, rightly perceived that he was not in tune with the
                    ultimate goal of dispossessing the Indians and refused to follow his advice. Faced with the dilemma
                    of using Wells, who knew and had great influence over the Indians but who refused to deal falsely
                    with them, or of appointing agents of lesser talent but more loyalty to federal policy, the
                    government chose the latter course. Saddled with agents who were adversaries rather than defenders,
                    the Miamis soon lost their lands and were removed to the West.89
            
            Wells had, by 1812, become a disposable asset. Harrison had already suggested banishing the agent
                    from the territory after the military crisis had ended. The Potawatomies neatly solved the
                    government's problem. In his death Wells displayed the very characteristics that made him
                    both so useful, and so dangerous, to the government. At Fort Dearborn, dressed and painted as a
                    Miami brave, he was little changed from the youngster who, in 1792, had upbraided a wounded bear for
                    "playing the part of a coward," and who swore never to disgrace his nation but to
                    die "with firmness and courage, as becomes a true warrior."90
            
            
               
                  88 Johnston to Eustis, December 4, 27, 1811, Letters Received by the
                        Secretary of War, registered series, Record Group 107.
               
                  89 For Miami removal see Grant Foreman, The Last Trek of the
                            Indians (Chicago, 1946), 125–32; and Anson, Miami Indians,
                        213–33.
               
                  90 Heckewelder, History, Manners, and Customs of the Indian
                            Nations, 256.
            
         
         
         
            "Incessant Noise and Tumult": Walter Q. Gresham and the Indiana Legislature
                    during the Secession Crisis
            
                    Charles W. Calhoun
                    ⋆
                
            In the aftermath of the election of Abraham Lincoln in 1860 and the ensuing secession of several
                    southern states, the great debate over secession, compromise, and impending civil war which
                    dominated the national counsels reverberated in state legislatures as well, including the Indiana
                    General Assembly.1 Among the legislators journeying to Indianapolis in the
                    winter of 1861, and thus participating in this discussion, was Walter Q. Gresham, Republican
                    representative from Harrison County. Although Gresham later achieved considerable prominence as a
                    federal judge, postmaster general, secretary of the treasury, and secretary of state, his election
                    to the Indiana legislature in 1860 was the only popular election he ever won. A man of ambition who
                    said that he loathed politics, he has been described as "one of the Gilded Age's
                    most complex and enigmatic public figures."2
            
            Gresham was a political Jeremiah who lamented that the politics of his time, which emphasized
                    organizational skills and party regularity, seemed not the exalted labor of guiding the
                    nation's destiny but, rather, a base enterprise not worthy of self-respecting people.3 Inclined to self-righteousness and an 
                  
                     ⋆ Charles W. Calhoun, formerly with the Centennial History
                            of the Indiana General Assembly, is assistant professor of history, Austin Peay State
                            University, Clarksville, Tennessee.
                  
                     1 For general discussions of Indiana politics in the Civil War period,
                            see Kenneth M. Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil War (Indiana
                                Historical Collections, Vol. XXXI; Indianapolis, 1949); and Lorna Lutes Sylvester,
                            "Oliver P. Morton and Hoosier Politics during the Civil War" (Ph.D.
                            dissertation, Department of History, Indiana University, 1968). See also Thomas William
                            Barnett, "The Indiana Legislative Session of 1861" (M.A. thesis,
                            Department of History, Indiana University, 1927).
                  
                     2 Lewis L. Gould, "Walter Quintin Gresham," in John
                            A. Garraty and Jerome L. Sternstein, eds., Encyclopedia of American
                            Biography (New York, 1975), 454–55.
                  
                     3 As a federal judge for most of his public career, Gresham refrained,
                            because of a sense of judicial propriety, from addressing political questions in
               
                     imperiousness perhaps better suited to judicial or executive
                        office, he had little patience for give-and-take deliberations, and he saw the
                    normal vicissitudes inherent in government by party as basely partisan impediments to progress and
                        right.4 While his revulsion for "practical politics"
                    became full-blown during the corruptions and excesses of the Ulysses S. Grant era and after, the
                    seeds were clearly present in 1861. He detested his service in the legislature, considering it an
                    exercise in futility, and he vowed to steer clear of politics in the future.5
                    Not yet twenty-nine years old when the legislature opened, Gresham arrived from a political
                    apprenticeship in southern Indiana with a sense of partisan affiliation that was far from intense.
                    His background and upbringing had propelled him toward the Whigs, but that organization had
                    virtually collapsed by the time he had come of age.6 He had joined the
                    Know-Nothings in 1854 and had remained a member of the secret order about a year.7 At the same time, as a participant in the anti-Democratic Fusion movement born of the
                    Kansas- 
                  public, but on those few occasions when he did mount the rostrum, he rarely failed to
                            attack what he saw as the degraded condition of American politics. He told a Civil War
                            veterans convention in 1879 that the leadership of the parties had passed into the hands of
                            "mere tricksters, with no proper notions of social or political duty."
                            Such men were, he said, "politicians who believe that conscience is out of place in
                            politics." Report of the Proceedings of the Society of the Army of the
                                Tennessee at the Thirteenth Annual Meeting Held at Chicago, Illinois, November 12 and
                                13, 1879 (Chicago, 1879), 25–42. See also Address of Judge
                                Walter Q. Gresham at the Unveiling of the Grant Statue, Chicago, October 7, 1891
                            (Chicago, 1893). Gresham's private correspondence was dotted with similar
                            lamentations. After a year in President Chester A. Arthur's cabinet he concluded:
                            "No great questions agitate the public mind, and there is little but sharp,
                            disagreeable and disgusting contests for place between men. The more I see of political life
                            at Washington, the less attractive it is to me. You encounter insincerity and meanness every
                            day." Walter Q. Gresham to William A. Woods, May 26, 1884, Walter Q. Gresham Papers
                            (Manuscripts Division, Library of Congress, Washington).
                  
                     4 A friend, writing in 1884, described Gresham's temperament
                            as "rather hot than cool." He had "too much impatience and
                            … a tendency to `cut across lots' and jump at conclusions."
                            Benjamin F. Babcock, The Presidential Favorites (Chicago, 1884),
                            50–54. See also remarks by William P. Fishback in Proceedings of the
                                Meeting of the Bench and Bar, Indianapolis, May 31, 1895, in Memory of Walter Q.
                            Gresham (Indianapolis, 1895), 11.
                  
                     5 Gresham to Mrs. Walter Q. Gresham, January 16, February 3, March 1,
                            6, May 31, 1861, Gresham Papers.
                  
                     6 Gresham's mentors in law and politics, Dennis Pennington,
                            his greatuncle, William T. Otto, and William A. Porter, were all prominent in the Indiana
                            Whig party. Matilda Gresham, Life of Walter Quintin Gresham,
                                1832–1895 (2 vols., Chicago, 1919), I, 26–28. For a
                            discussion of Gresham's career leading up to his term in the legislature see
                            Charles W. Calhoun, "'The Ragged Edge of Anxiety': A Political
                            Biography of Walter Q. Gresham" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History,
                            Columbia University, 1977), chapter 1.
                  
                     7 Gresham to S. Wolf, May 24, 1888, Walter Q. Gresham Papers (Indiana
                            Division, Indiana State Library, Indianapolis).
               
                    
                    
                  BRIGADIER GENERAL WALTER Q. GRESHAM DURING THE CIVIL WAR
                  Reproduced from Ezra J. Warner, Generals in Blue: Lines of the Union
                            Commanders (Baton Rouge, 1964), 188.
                Nebraska controversy, he had twice run for local office and had lost both times.8 Fusionism evolved into Republicanism in the 1850s, but even though by 1860
                    Gresham referred to himself as a Republican, he was not a Republican above all else.9
            
            Like many other Hoosiers, Gresham hated slavery but was no abolitionist.10 He
                    endorsed the strictures in the Republican national platform of 1860 against the spread of the
                    institution 
                  
                     8 The Fusionists nominated Gresham for district prosecuting attorney
                            in 1854 and for Harrison County clerk in 1855. Gresham, Life of Walter Quintin
                                Gresham, I, 59–60, 62–66.
                  
                     9 In the legislature Gresham occasionally flouted party discipline
                            even in matters of patronage. Doubting the "wisdom of carrying politics"
                            into the election of the directors of the state's benevolent institutions, he
                            refused to attend the Republican caucus to select nominees. He also spearheaded an
                            unsuccessful attempt to take the selection of the state printer—elected by the
                            legislature—out of partisan politics and to let the printing to the lowest
                            bidder. When one Republican claimed that, since the party had won a majority in the General
                            Assembly, the office of printer belonged to the Republican party, Gresham replied:
                            "When it comes to that, sir, your government will be rottenness, and there will be
                            no more hope for the patriot." Indiana, House Journal (1861), 21,
                            143; Brevier Legislative Reports (1861), IV, 13, 83, 197–98,
                            289–91, 350.
                  
                     10 Gresham, Life of Walter Quintin Gresham, I, 55,
                            97.
               
                     and hoped to "keep it out of free
                        territories."11 But above that consideration, a commitment to order
                    and stability in society lay at the heart of his political creed. Disunion, whether caused by
                    northern abolitionists or southern fire-eaters, was the greatest calamity he could conceive of. In
                    addition, he represented a constituency which had strong social and commercial ties with the
                        South.12 Consequently, he bent his every effort in the Indiana House toward
                    avoiding the disaster of disunion. Before Sumter he was more willing than many of his fellow
                    Republicans in the legislature to permit the spread of slavery below the old Missouri Compromise
                    line as a way to resolve the sectional conflict. In this respect he showed a willingness to suspend
                    partisan animosity in the search for a peaceful solution to the problems dividing North and
                        South.13 After Sumter, when it became clear that war was inevitable, he
                    again hoped for a submersion of politics and for a vigorous military effort to preserve the
                        Union.14
            
            In early December, 1860, as a result of his election to the Indiana General Assembly, Gresham
                    received an invitation from unionists at Brandenburg, Kentucky, to offer assurances that that
                    state's future was safer in the Union than out of it. Addressing a mass meeting, he
                    solemnly promised: "Myself, my associates, and my party are pledged not to attempt to
                    interfere with slavery in any of the States." He acknowledged that people in the South
                    might have legitimate grievances but warned the Kentuckians that "secession is no remedy
                    for any evil. The Union dismembered, all will be lost. Within the Union all differences can be
                    settled, all rights adjusted."15
            
            In this spirit Gresham set off in early January for Indianapolis, but once there he found the
                    prospect for a settlement "anything else than cheering."16
                    Convening on January 10, the House of Representatives confronted the secession issue even 
                  
                     11 Donald Bruce Johnson and Kirk H. Porter, comps., National Party Platforms, 1840–1972 (Urbana, III., 1973),
                            32–33; Gresham to Mrs. Gresham, February 24, 1861, Gresham Papers (Manuscripts
                            Division, Library of Congress).
                  
                     12 Gresham, Life of Walter Quintin Gresham, I,
                            124–25.
                  
                     13 In the course of the legislative session the House of
                            Representatives voted twice on the question of endorsing an extension of the Missouri
                            Compromise line. Each time Gresham was one of only a handful of Republicans who favored the
                            proposition. Indiana, House Journal (1861), 556–58. See also
                                Brevier Legislative Reports (1861), IV, 168–69; and
                            Indianapolis Journal, March 12, 1861.
                  
                     14 Gresham to Mrs. Gresham, April 25, 28, 1861, Gresham Papers
                            (Manuscripts Division, Library of Congress).
                  
                     15 Quoted in Gresham, Life of Walter Quintin
                            Gresham, I, 122–25.
                  
                     16 Gresham to Mrs. Gresham, January 7, 1861, Gresham Papers
                            (Manuscripts Division, Library of Congress).
               
                     before it was able to organize. With the clerk of the former
                    House in the chair, Horace Heffren, a thirty-year-old Democrat representing Harrison and Washington
                    counties, introduced a resolution that the House elect no officers who were not committed to the
                    Crittenden Compromise.17 The chair ruled the resolution out of order, and the
                    House proceeded to the election of officers by a strict party vote, Heffren losing the speakership
                    to Republican Cyrus M. Allen of Knox County. With the House organization completed, Heffren again
                    tried to secure an endorsement of compromise with a resolution that the General Assembly elect no
                    one to office—the legislature would soon choose a United States
                    senator—"who is not in favor of the preservation of the Federal Union at any
                    sacrifice of partizan theories or beliefs, upon a compromise of the slavery question which will
                    secure the rights of each and every state." The Republican majority promptly shelved this
                    move as well.18
            
            Heffren's resolutions were but the opening salvos in a battle that raged throughout the
                    session. Although a state legislature could do little to resolve the national crisis, Republicans
                    and Democrats alike were convinced of the symbolic importance of the image that Indiana projected to
                    the South. The Hoosier legislators believed that a gesture on their part would be read by
                    southerners as an index of northern intentions. Beyond this premise, however, agreement ended.
                    Democrats, fearful of losing their political allies in the seceding states, generally favored
                    placing Indiana squarely on the record for compromise and conciliation.19 To
                    Republican banker Calvin Fletcher these Democratic conciliationists seemed little better than
                    "traitors" who would "go with the South" in the event of
                        conflict.20 On their side, most Republicans saw secession, in part at least,
                    as a scheme to deny them the victory they had won in November. 
                  
                     17
                            Brevier Legislative Reports (1861), IV, 7–8. The Crittenden
                            Compromise, introduced in the United States Senate by John J. Crittenden of Kentucky, was
                            the most important of several compromise proposals bandied about during the secession
                            crisis. In the main it called for an unamendable constitutional amendment dividing all
                            present and future territory at 36† 30', banning slavery above the line
                            and recognizing and protecting it below; an unamendable amendment forever prohibiting
                            congressional interference with slavery in the states; and a more effective and equitable
                            enforcement of the Fugitive Slave Act. Edward McPherson, The Political History
                                of the United States of America during the Great Rebellion (2nd ed., Washington,
                            1865), 64–66.
                  
                     18 Indiana, House Journal (1861), 9–10;
                                Brevier Legislative Reports (1861), IV, 8–9.
                  
                     19
                            Brevier Legislative Reports (1861), IV, 9–12, 44–45,
                            56; Indiana, House Journal (1861), 269–77.
                  
                     20 Calvin Fletcher Diary, February 12, 1861 (Indiana Historical
                            Society Library, Indianapolis).
               
                     Unwilling to back down from their campaign stance against the
                    extension of slavery, they were less fearful than the Democrats of "coercing" the
                        South.21 Indeed, to Democratic Congressman William S. Holman, Republican
                    leaders seemed "to love the Chicago Platform infinately [sic] more than the
                        Union."22 Despite their 62–38 edge, however, the House
                    Republicans could not match their opponents' unity. To give themselves added control over
                    the secession debate, the majority party created a select Committee of Thirteen on Federal Relations
                    to which all resolutions and motions on "the present excited state of our country"
                    would be automatically referred.23
            
            Nevertheless, despite Democratic cries of "gag," discussions of the
                    country's "excited state" frequently drew the legislature's
                    attention away from pressing state matters such as the chaotic condition of Indiana's
                        finances.24 The tone of these debates was set by the speeches of two
                    governors—the annual message of outgoing Democrat Abram A. Hammond and the inaugural
                    address of Republican Henry S. Lane. Hammond traced the underlying causes of the
                    "alienation of affection" between North and South to "the unwise, and, in
                    many instances, fanatical agitation of the question of domestic slavery," especially by
                    northern ministers, which had "naturally produced ultraism at the South." He
                    dismissed the issue of slavery extension as a mere "abstraction" since the
                    "natural laws" of "climate, soil, and productions" in the
                    territories would repel the institution. The real cause of the trouble, he argued, was "the
                    triumph of the Republican party in the late Presidential contest" which victory had pricked
                    the South's "instinct of self-preservation." Maintaining that it was the
                    duty of northern conservatives to reassure the southerners, Hammond exhorted the General Assembly to
                    demonstrate that Indiana would "extend to the South all rights in the territories belonging
                    to this Government that she would claim for herself … and that all property recognized by
                    the Constitution and laws shall be alike protected."25
            
            In his address Lane acknowledged that abolitionist speeches and literature had "contributed
                    largely to the present state of things in the South," but, he declared, because southerners
                    had refused to listen to northern conservative answers to 
                  
                     21
                            Brevier Legislative Reports (1861), IV, 24, 34–36,
                            58–59, 70–71.
                  
                     22 William S. Holman to Allen Hamilton, January 11, 1861, Allen
                            Hamilton Papers (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library).
                  
                     23 Indiana, 'House Journal (1861),
                            25–26.
                  
                     24
                            Brevier Legislative Reports (1861), IV, 15; Stampp, Indiana
                                Politics, 61–63.
                  
                     25
                            Brevier Legislative Reports (1861), IV, 20–22.
               
                     abolitionist appeals, they had acquired "a false
                    impression as to the objects, aims, and doctrines of the great body of the Northern
                    people." The roots of secession, he argued, lay less in anti-slavery agitation than in
                    "the treasonable doctrines taught in 1832 and 1833 by the leaders of the nullification
                    movement." Rather than Lincoln's election, the immediate cause of the crisis was
                    the abandonment of the Missouri Compromise, the repeal of which Lane labeled a "sin against
                    the cause of freedom and the cause of peace." Like many other Republicans, Lane
                    overestimated the ability of southern unionists to "baffle and defeat all the mad schemes
                    of traitors and disunionists," but he also recognized that it might be necessary to use
                    military force to punish overt acts of treason. Far less inclined to conciliation than Hammond, Lane
                    offered only the repeal of personal liberty laws as "a peace offering worthy of a great,
                    intelligent and free people."26
            
            With neither of these positions did Gresham feel comfortable. He did not share Lane's
                    apparent sanguinity about unionists prevailing in the southern states, but he was unwilling to bend
                    completely backward, as Hammond and the Democrats seemed to be, in order to appease the seceders.27 Like many other border Republicans, he searched for some accommodation which
                    would stay the tide of disunion without a sacrifice of principle. Early in the session he added his
                    own set of resolutions on the state of the Union to those which his colleagues were piling on the
                    speaker's desk. Gresham's resolutions were a rather bland offering, drawing
                    heavily upon the euphemistic code in which much of the sectional debate was carried on. Without ever
                    using the word "slavery" he declared that "the people of Indiana are
                    opposed to any interference by the Government or people of our State with the domestic institutions
                    of another." As for the extension of slavery, he referred southerners to Hoosiers'
                    "respect for the rights of other States which they zealously exact for their own"
                    and promised that "the constitutional laws of Congress [shall be] impartially enforced in
                    all the States and Territories." Avoiding the term "personal liberty
                    laws"—itself a euphemism—he called merely for states to repeal any
                    statutes in conflict with the Constitution or congressional legislation. With no mention of fugitive
                    slaves he referred to the "duty of the Federal government, and 
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., 39–41.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., 49, 168–69, 321–22; Gresham to Mrs. Gresham,
                            January 7, February 24, 1861, Gresham Papers (Manuscripts Division, Library of
                        Congress).
               
                     of the several States, to secure to the citizens of each State
                    all the privileges and immunities of citizens of the several States as guaranteed in the
                    Constitution"—thereby employing phraseology so vague as to appeal both to
                    harassed northern free blacks and to southern slave catchers. But on the question of secession he
                    pulled no punches, equating it with "treason" and an "open, armed
                    rebellion against … power and authority," a revolution which threatened the
                    "overthrow of the General Government." To avert that disaster he was willing to
                    pledge "the entire power and resources of the State of Indiana." There was nothing
                    particularly original in Gresham's resolutions, and they, like those of his colleagues,
                    went to the Committee of Thirteen.28
            
            On January 22 Chairman Martin L. Bundy offered the report of the Committee of Thirteen to the House.
                    Recent events had lent increasing urgency to the crisis; a few days earlier Georgia had become the
                    fifth state to secede, and only the day before Jefferson Davis and four other southerners had bade
                    "a final adieu" to the United States Senate. Bundy remarked that his committee had
                    examined the several resolutions submitted by the members and had unanimously arrived at a report
                    affirming Indiana's commitment to the Union, denying the right of secession, and calling
                    for the execution of the laws in all the states. Further, the committee's resolutions
                    disavowed any interference with slavery where it existed, called for repeal of personal liberty
                    laws, and requested the governor to appoint two eminent citizens to go at once to address the
                    legislatures of Kentucky and Tennessee to "give assurance to them of the ardent desire of
                    the people of Indiana to preserve the American Union, and protect and secure the rights of the
                    people of all the States." The fifth resolution, which had given the committee the most
                    trouble and about which sharp differences still existed, stated: "Indiana proposes as a
                    basis of settlement, by proper enactment, to restore the Missouri Compromise line of 36 degrees 30
                    minutes, with all the rights of the people North and South as they formerly existed; or any other
                    reasonable and just arrangement which shall not require the sacrifice of the rights of the people of
                    any part of the confederacy."29
            
            Gresham approved the general "tone" of these resolutions and hoped they would
                    "strengthen the hands of the Union 
                  
                     28
                            Brevier Legislative Reports (1861), IV, 49.
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., 83–84; Indiana, House Journal (1861),
                            145–46; Everette B. Long, The Civil War Day by Day: An Almanac,
                                1861–1865 (Garden City, N.Y., 1971), 27–28.
               
                     loving men in the South." But he also believed that
                    they were "too indefinite" as to the reestablishment of the Missouri Compromise
                    line. He told the House that he was "willing to vote for any reasonable
                    compromise—[but] not an ignominious one." Abandoning the ambiguity of his own
                    earlier resolutions, he argued that the fifth section should be clarified to show that its intent
                    was to permit, but not to mandate, slavery in the territories below the line.30
                    After a brief discussion the House set formal consideration of Bundy's report for a week
                        later.31
            
            When the legislators returned to the subject of federal relations on January 29, they confronted a
                    somewhat altered situation. Governor Oliver P. Morton (who had succeeded to the office of governor
                    from that of lieutenant-governor upon Lane's election to the Senate) had received the
                    Virginia legislature's invitation to send delegates to Washington, D.C., on February 4 to
                    discuss possible constitutional amendments to allay the crisis. Although Morton foresaw little
                    usefulness in the proposed peace conference, he accepted it as a "measure of
                    procrastination" until Lincoln's inauguration and believed that Indiana should
                    send commissioners who would "operate as a powerful restraint upon any disposition on the
                    part of other states to compromise the integrity of the Republican party."32 Less cynically, Gresham believed the proposal offered real hope for compromise. He
                    introduced a resolution accepting Virginia's invitation and naming four Republican
                    commissioners—Lane, Caleb B. Smith, William T. Otto, and John P. Usher—and one
                    Democrat, reformer Robert Dale Owen. Democrats offered similar resolutions, although with greater
                    representation for their own party. Some members believed the House should go into joint session
                    with the Senate to elect commissioners, while Speaker Allen favored rejecting Virginia's
                    invitation outright. Despite Democratic calls for immediate action, these various recommendations
                    went to the Committee of Thirteen.33
            
            Two days later the committee returned with an entirely new measure which lodged appointment of the
                    commissioners in the hands of the governor and prohibited their taking any 
                  
                     30 Indianapolis Daily Journal, January 23, 1861; Brevier Legislative Reports (1861), IV, 84.
                  
                     31
                            Brevier Legislative Reports (1861), IV, 83–84; Indiana, House Journal (1861), 146–47.
                  
                     32 Indiana, House Journal (1861), 184–86;
                            quotations from Oliver P. Morton to Abraham Lincoln, January 29, 1861, Abraham Lincoln
                            Papers (Manuscripts Division, Library of Congress).
                  
                     33
                            Brevier Legislative Reports (1861), IV, 121, 127–28; Indiana,
                                House Journal (1861), 224, 243–44.
               
                     action binding on the state until nineteen states were
                    represented at the conference. Moreover, the committee's resolution rejected
                    Virginia's endorsement of the Crittenden Compromise and declared that "the
                    Constitution of the United States contains ample provisions within itself for the correction of the
                    evils complained of."34 Although this measure limited the mandate of
                    Indiana's commissioners, Gresham swung behind it, believing it essential that the state
                    have some sort of representation. He stuck by the Republicans in resisting Democratic attempts to
                    wrest appointment of the commissioners away from the governor, to remove the nineteen-state
                    stipulation, and to endorse the Crittenden Compromise. Both the House and the Senate passed the
                    resolution handily.35
            
            In appointing the commissioners Morton further curtailed their mandate. From each he demanded a
                    commitment to oppose any compromise that involved amending the Constitution, recognized slavery in
                    any territory, or granted any further guarantees to slavery in the states. In spite of these
                    restrictions Gresham still believed the conference could accomplish some good. He persuaded Morton
                    to appoint his friend and former law partner, Thomas C. Slaughter, as a commissioner—an
                    office Gresham considered "more honorable than U.S. Senator."36
            
            The restraints placed on Indiana's delegates reflected a growing opposition to compromise
                    among Hoosier Republicans. After the Committee of Thirteen's unanimous endorsement of the
                    restoration of the Missouri Compromise, Morton leveled a blistering attack on the
                    "wickedness and folly" of secession. He denounced conciliation and those who would
                    "stop and prescribe the conditions" upon which to maintain the Union.37 Speaker Allen thought the committee's compromise proposal had come
                    "very near breaking up the Rep[ublican] party of Ind[ian]a" and resorted to
                    parliamentary maneuver to send it back to the 
                  
                     34
                            Brevier Legislative Reports (1861), IV, 141–42.
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., 142–46; Indiana, Senate Journal
                            (1861), 220–22; Indiana, Laws (1861), 184–85; Henry
                            K. Wilson to John G. Davis, January 29, 1861, John G. Davis Papers (Indiana Historical
                            Society Library).
                  
                     36 Oliver P. Morton, "Interrogatories to Peace
                            Commissioners," February 1, 1861, Oliver P. Morton Papers (Indiana Division,
                            Indiana State Library); God-love S. Orth to Morton, February 1, 1861, ibid.; Pleasant A. Hackleman to Morton, February 1, 1861, ibid.;
                            Erastus W. H. Ellis to Morton, February 2, 1861, ibid.; Thomas C.
                            Slaughter to Morton, February 3, 1861, ibid.; Gresham to Mrs. Gresham,
                            February 3, 1861, Gresham Papers (Manuscripts Division, Library of Congress).
                  
                     37 Quoted in William Dudley Foulke, Life of Oliver P.
                                Morton (2 vols., Indianapolis, 1899), I, 102–104.
               
                     committee "to get rid of it."38 As a result, the committee's former unanimity gave way to intensely partisan
                    differences. On January 31, in place of the original report, the Republican majority offered Joint
                    Resolution 7, recently passed by the Senate, which merely affirmed the rights of the states to order
                    their own domestic institutions, commended the antisecession efforts of unionists in the border
                    states, and pledged for the preservation of the Union "whatever of power or purpose a loyal
                    and patriotic State should contribute." The resolution contained no mention of compromise,
                    and one phrase inserted by the Republicans aroused particular resentment among the Democrats:
                    "we [northerners] have not in the past contributed in any degree to bring about that state
                    of things which threatens to result in overwhelming calamity and unparalleled crime." In
                    essence, Joint Resolution 7 represented that end of the Republican spectrum which saw no need or
                    justification for compromising the broader issues dividing the sections and which focused on the
                    suppression of secession as the nation's main task.39
            
            The Democrats replied with a minority report which illustrated how closely many northern Democrats
                    identified the fortunes of their party with those of the South. In presenting his party's
                    views, Heffren launched a scathing attack on the Republicans, demanding that they "discard
                    all specious fallacies in regard to slavery" and sacrifice "all abstract theories
                    and barren creeds" upon "the altar of a common country." The Democrats
                    denounced abolitionist ministers who had "disgraced decency and outraged morality by their
                    infamous and hellish harangues to aid in the unholy and unchristian cause of bringing about
                    contention and strife." To force the seceders to remain in the Union, the report declared,
                    would be to subvert "the very spirit of liberty and of natural right." If the
                    federal government should make such an attempt at coercion, one hundred thousand men in Indiana
                    would oppose such "despotism" and would fly to the aid of the southerners
                    "to protect and preserve their rights and liberties" and "to keep the
                    fires of equal rights, justice and liberty burning." So passionate was the debate following
                    Heffren's report that the House finally resolved to expel any member who should offer or
                    accept a challenge to a duel.40
            
            
               
                  38 Cyrus M. Allen to Lincoln, January 25, 1861, Lincoln Papers.
               
                  39
                        Brevier Legislative Reports (1861), IV, 58–59, 141–42;
                        Indiana, Laws (1861), 188–89.
               
                  40
                        Brevier Legislative Reports (1861), IV, 142–49, 152–58,
                        160–62; Indianapolis Daily State Sentinel, February 7, 8, 9, 1861.
                        Heffren's caustic brilliance finally won him a challenge to a duel from Gideon C.
                        Moody, twenty-eight-
            
            
            Heffren's "constant war-fare on the Republicans" dismayed more temperate
                    Democrats, who, as Congressman-elect James A. Cravens put it, saw "no good to come of
                    constantly goading them."41 Gresham, who was alarmed both by his own
                    party's intransigence and by the minority report's violence, sought to use
                    Heffren's very extremism to attract moderate Democrats to his own concept of a middle
                    course. In a speech before the House he told his Democratic colleagues that their "maturer
                    judgment could not sanction" Heffren's excesses, and he cautioned them that the
                    "man that puts himself in the way of resisting the enforcement of the laws, puts himself
                    necessarily in the position of a rebel and a traitor." Playing upon their notions of
                    states' rights, which he shared to a considerable degree, he noted that it might be
                    justified to "resist coercion against States, as States" but added that the
                    punishment of rebels was "quite a different thing from war against a State." As
                    for compromise, he offered to "co-operate heartily" with Democrats but refused to
                    embrace the Crittenden amendments which "would be construed so as to carry slavery where
                    the people do not want it." He reminded Democrats that in 1860 they had sacrificed the
                    unity of their party rather than adopt the southern position that there must be positive federal
                    protection of slavery in the territories: "Would Democrats submit now to what they declared
                    at Charleston they never would?" He contended that a more equitable solution lay in the
                    application of Stephen A. Douglas' doctrine of popular sovereignty to a reinstatement of
                    the Missouri Compromise. Let the territories, all of which were "now free," be
                    divided by a line north of which "shall be free—South slave, subject to popular
                    will, without question or restraint." Such a plan, he argued, was more just than the
                    Crittenden mandate of slavery below 36† 30', which did "not recognize
                    the control of the majority in all 
                  year-old Republican from Jasper County. The two traveled to Kentucky with their seconds,
                            but once they had reached the field of honor, they could not agree on weapons and called the
                            contest off. Local officials, however, took a dim view of the affair, and the entire
                            party—principals and seconds—was indicted by a Kentucky grand jury.
                            Moody hired Gresham to defend him, and eventually all were acquitted. Back in the House,
                            believing that "they have already suffered enough," Gresham opposed
                            efforts to expel Moody and Heffren, and resolutions against them were dropped. Brevier Legislative Reports (1861), IV, 216, 228–29; Gresham to Mrs.
                            Gresham, February 18, 24, 1861, Gresham Papers (Manuscripts Division, Library of Congress);
                            Stampp, Indiana Politics, 62–63n; James Sutherland, Biographical Sketches of the Members of the Forty-first General Assembly of the
                                State of Indiana (Indianapolis, 1861), 140–41.
                  
                     41 James A. Cravens to William H. English, January 20, 1861, William
                            H. English Papers (Indiana Historical Society Library).
               
                     cases."42 Again,
                    Gresham's suggestions were hardly original, but they were unusual coming from the
                    Republican side of the aisle.
            The next day the Republican Indianapolis Journal ignored the compromise portion of
                    Gresham's speech and noted merely that he had spoken with "excellent effect
                    against the position of the secessionists." In the House the Republican majority continued
                    to block efforts to commit the state to compromise. By a strict party vote the House passed
                    unamended the Senate's Joint Resolution 7, which one Democrat described as
                    "neither cold nor hot, but lukewarm."43 Later, the Democrats
                    twice tried to put the House on record as favoring an extension of the Missouri Compromise line. The
                    first attempt, embodied in a resolution endorsing the so-called Border State Proposition, failed by
                    a vote of 43 to 47, with Gresham and six other Republicans, most from Ohio River counties, voting
                    with the Democrats.44 In the second attempt, Heffren himself moved to replace
                    his own minority report resolutions with the procompromise resolution in the original unanimous
                    report of the Committee of Thirteen. Again the Republicans prevailed by a vote of 36 to 53, with
                    Gresham and two other river county Republicans siding with the Democrats.45
            
            Like many other Americans, Gresham found that his mood fluctuated with every bit of news brought by
                    the telegraph. In mid-February the crisis in the South worsened. Texas voted to abandon the Union,
                    the seceding states organized the Confederacy, and Jefferson Davis assumed its presidency. With the
                    Democratic administration in Washington apparently standing idle, Gresham for one brief moment
                    thought the unthinkable—peace before Union. He wrote his wife:
            
               
                  42
                        Brevier Legislative Reports (1861), IV, 168–69.
               
                  43
                        Ibid., 260–61; Indianapolis Daily Journal,
                        February 5, 1861; Indiana, House Journal (1861), 553–55.
               
                  44 Indiana, House Journal (1861), 556. The Border State
                        Proposition, which grew out of a meeting of about seventy-five United States senators and
                        representatives from fourteen border slave and free states, included a resolution restoring the
                        Missouri Compromise line south of which neither Congress nor a territorial legislature could
                        abolish or interfere with slavery. McPherson, Political History,
                        73–74; Indianapolis Daily State Sentinel, February 2, 1861.
               
                  45 Indiana, House Journal (1861), 557–58; Brevier Legislative Reports (1861), IV, 262. On March 1 Gresham made a
                        successful effort to kill a bill introduced by Heffren which called for a statewide referendum
                        on the Crittenden plan and the Border State Proposition. While reiterating his devotion to
                        compromise, Gresham pointed out that the Washington Peace Conference had already rejected the
                        Crittenden proposals and warned that a call for a referendum "might bring shame to our
                        people." Indiana, House Journal (1861), 736–37; Brevier Legislative Reports (1861), IV, 321–22.
            
            
            
                    Our country is in a most deplorable condition …. It is now so far gone that I almost
                        despair of any settlement …. My opinion is that the sooner the North & South
                        have a peaceable separation the better—that is if the Border slave states are not
                        willing to remain in the Union. There are thousands of good & true Union men in Ky.
                        Tennessee Mo. Md. & Va. but I fear they will be overpowered. The Democrats have made the
                        Southern masses believe the Republicans are all Abolitionists and Negro thieves.46
               
                
            But by the first of March Gresham thought the "prospect for the Union grows brighter every
                        day."47 On February 27 the Washington Peace Conference had
                    completed its work and had sent to Congress a set of resolutions calling for a restoration of the
                    Missouri Compromise substantially as Gresham had been advocating.48 The next day
                    the United States House of Representatives had finally taken a step toward resolving the sectional
                    impasse by passing a proposed constitutional amendment forever denying Congress the power to abolish
                    slavery in the states. A few days later the Senate seconded this action which seemed to many
                    Americans the long-sought "harbinger of peace."49 And the
                    imminent assumption of the presidency by Lincoln, whom Gresham regarded as a "great and
                    good man," gave him new hope that "the old ship will weather the
                        storm."50
            
            On the last day of the session the Indiana General Assembly took one small step in favor of
                    compromise by passing a resolution urging Congress to call a convention to amend the Constitution.
                    Originally passed as a joint resolution, the measure was changed by the Republican majority to a
                    concurrent resolution so that it would not be published among the official acts of the legislature.
                    Chairman Bundy made the final report of the Committee of Thirteen which noted the proposal for a
                    convention but maintained that the General Assembly should not presume to prescribe the terms of any
                    amendments. Gresham regretted the committee's half-heartedness and moved to amend both the
                    resolution and Bundy's report to insert an endorsement of the peace conference's
                    resolutions. The House rejected both these efforts.51
            
            
               
                  46 Long, Civil War Day by Day, 33–41; Gresham
                        to Mrs. Gresham, February 24, 1861, Gresham Papers (Manuscripts Division, Library of Congress).
               
                  47 Gresham to Mrs. Gresham, March 1, 1861, ibid.
               
               
                  48 Robert Gray Gunderson, Old Gentlemen's
                            Convention: The Washington Peace Conference of 1861 (Madison, Wis., 1961),
                        89–91.
               
                  49 McPherson, Political History, 59–60; Long,
                            Civil War Day by Day, 42–43.
               
                  50 Gresham to Mrs. Gresham, March 1, 1861, Gresham Papers (Manuscripts
                        Division, Library of Congress).
               
                  51 Indiana, House Journal (1861), 1039–40,
                        1071–73; Brevier Legislative Reports (1861), IV, 373; Indianapolis
                            Daily Journal, March 12, 1861.
            
            
            The confidence Gresham placed in the feasibility of compromise was, of course, ill-founded, and from
                    a later vantage his efforts in the Indiana legislature seem inconsequential and not a little
                    foolhardy. Impelled by a detestation of disorder and by a regard for the well-being of his southern
                    Indiana constituents, he contemplated the separation of the sections with horror. He was, however,
                    far from blinded to the possibility that it would require armed conflict to maintain the Union, and
                    he worked as hard to insure Indiana's military preparedness as he did in behalf of
                    compromise.
            At the beginning of the legislative session Gresham had been appointed chairman of the House
                    Committee on Military Affairs.52 Precisely why so important an assignment was
                    given to a twenty-eight-year-old first-term legislator is difficult to say. He had become fairly
                    well known in statewide Republican circles; the party organ, the Indianapolis Journal, called him "one of the most promising and able young men in the
                        State."53 No doubt his residence in Harrison County influenced the
                    assignment, since concern for the state's defense focused on the long southern border. In
                    addition, Gresham could boast a degree of military knowledge and experience because he had served as
                    a captain of a local militia company at Corydon.54 Whatever the reason for his
                    appointment he brought to the position a conviction that, should compromise fail, Indiana must be on
                    a secure footing to defend itself and the North at large must be prepared to crush the
                    seceders' treason.55
            
            The main task before Gresham's committee was to revamp the state militia. In January, 1861,
                    the organization consisted of only a half dozen units, totaling fewer than five hundred men. The
                    whereabouts of the state's arms, uniforms, and equipment was unknown. For ten years the
                    state adjutant general had asked for an effective militia law without success, and now Republican
                    reorganization efforts met serious Democratic opposition. The militia had long been an honorific
                    organization, and a succession of Democratic governors had filled its offices 
                  
                     52 Indiana, House Journal (1861), 97.
                  
                     53 Indianapolis Daily Journal, February 5, 1861.
                  
                     54 Sketch of Gresham in Chicago Tribune, February
                            28, 1888.
                  
                     55 Early in the legislative session Gresham introduced a measure
                            authorizing the governor to rent quarters for a state arsenal and to have the current state
                            arms collected and refurbished. Indiana, House Journal (1861), 132. Rarely
                            missing an opportunity to advance what he considered the state's urgent military
                            needs, he tried on one occasion to have the revenues of a new dog-licensing tax diverted to
                            the military fund, but the effort failed. Brevier Legislative Reports
                            (1861), IV, 285.
               
                     with members of their own party, some of whom now served in the
                    legislature. These Democrats feared that any new legislation would destroy their control of the
                    militia, and their fears were confirmed when the Republican-dominated Judiciary Committee reported
                    that upon repeal of the existing law all officers under the old system would cease to exercise
                    command. Beyond considerations of office, however, Democrats were reluctant to approve anything
                    which looked toward "coercing" the South.56
            
            On January 25 Gresham introduced Bill No. 105: "A bill for the organization of the Indiana
                    Militia, prescribing duties of certain officers, providing for a military fund and its disbursement,
                    for punishing failures, refusals, and negligence in connection with the service, and for the repeal
                    of all existing laws having reference to said militia." The bill was extraordinarily long,
                    and one Democrat drew a laugh from the House with a resolution "that if the gentleman from
                    Harrison shall introduce another bill during the present session containing more than 40 pages, it
                    shall be indefinitely postponed." But levity could not mask the seriousness with which both
                    parties viewed the subject, albeit for different reasons, and neither would allow the measure to be
                    railroaded through. It was nearly two weeks before the House took it up. By that time the Democrats
                    had settled upon obstructionist tactics, offering amendments to strike out over fifty sections. They
                    claimed the bill would create a "military despotism" to which the people of
                    Indiana "never would submit" and vowed that it would never pass "in its
                    present shape." After its second reading the bill was referred to the Committee on Military
                        Affairs.57
            
            When Gresham reported his bill out of committee, the Democrats were repelled most by a provision for
                    the popular election of officers by the militia companies. Determined to defeat the measure, they
                    attempted to substitute an entirely new bill calling for the retention of the present generals and
                    regimental officers until September, 1861, at which time the units would hold elections. Presumably,
                    the current Democratic officers, who would have organized the units to their liking by that time,
                    would then be secure enough in their positions to 
                  
                     56 Joseph A. Parsons, Jr., "Indiana and the Call for
                            Volunteers, April, 1861," Indiana Magazine of History, LIV
                            (March, 1958), 1–2; Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton, I, 110;
                            Indiana, House Journal (1861), 205; Indianapolis Daily State
                                Sentinel, January 31, 1861.
                  
                     57 Indiana, House Journal (1861), 200,
                            311–12; Brevier Legislative Reports (1861), IV, 110,
                            173–74.
               
                    
                    
                  WALTER Q. GRESHAM c. 1852
               
                    
                  JUDGE WALTER Q. GRESHAM
                  Reproduced from Matilda Gresham, Life of Walter Quintin Gresham,
                                1832–1895 (2 vols., Chicago, 1919), I, II, frontispieces.
               
                     win election. The Republicans quickly voted down this
                    substitute, approved the committee's report, and moved to the third reading of
                    Gresham's bill. When a vote was imminent, the Democrats' only hope was to bolt the
                    chamber and thereby break the quorum of two thirds of the one hundred members. When the clerk began
                    to call the roll, all but six of the minority party scurried from the hall. During the call,
                    however, a few of the bolters wandered in and out, and Speaker Allen instructed the clerk to record
                    enough of them as present to make a quorum. As a result, the bill passed the House by a vote of 57
                    to 10. Fifty-seven Republicans voted in favor of the measure, and four Republicans and six Democrats
                    voted nay. Two Democrats were counted as present but refusing to vote. At the conclusion of the roll
                    call one incensed Democrat moved to change the bill's title to "An act making
                    provision for the complete rout of the Republican party at the next and all succeeding popular
                        elections."58
            
            Nevertheless, the Democrats had the final say. With less than a week remaining in the session the
                    legislature had yet to approve an appropriations bill. Moreover, the Republican majority had written
                    reapportionment bills which the Democrats regarded as attempts to gerrymander the legislative and
                    congressional districts. On the night that Gresham's militia bill passed the House,
                    Democrats from both houses caucused and resolved to stay away from the statehouse "if
                    necessary to prevent apportionment and military bills pending."59
                    Threatening to prevent a quorum and thereby to obstruct business until the end of the session, the
                    minority correctly perceived that the Republicans, as the party in power, would be unwilling to
                    accept the blame for the failure to provide appropriations to run the state. The Republicans
                    relented on both apportionment and the militia, and the General Assembly took no further action on
                        either.60 In the end the only defense measure enacted was a law directing
                    the governor to take possession of the state's arms and distribute them to counties where
                    they might be needed.61
            
            
               
                  58 Indiana, House Journal (1861), 630–41,
                        746, 768, 808, 823–48; Brevier Legislative Reports (1861), IV, 289,
                        326, 343–44, 347–48. The House Journal lists 57 voting
                        in favor of the bill; the Brevier Legislative Reports says 56 voted yea but
                        does not list the names.
               
                  59 Indiana, House Journal (1861), 808–21; Brevier Legislative Reports (1861), IV, 342, 345–48.
               
                  60
                        Brevier Legislative Reports (1861), IV, 350; Indianapolis Daily
                            Journal, March 8, 1861; Indianapolis Daily State Sentinel, March 8,
                        1861; Stampp, Indiana Politics, 66–67.
               
                  61 Indiana, Laws (1861), 129–30.
            
            
            Gresham's experience in the legislature did little to change the low regard for party
                    regularity that he had acquired in southern Indiana politics. He concluded that both the endorsement
                    of sectional compromise and military preparedness had been sacrificed to partisan politics. He had
                    journeyed to Indianapolis filled with anticipation for what he believed would be a gathering of
                    public servants eager to do all in their power to meet the national emergency. The country faced one
                    of those crises which were supposed to transform ordinary politicians into leaders. Yet in less than
                    a week he had concluded that the "great body" of his colleagues were
                    "perfect asses … actuated by no other desire than a fondness for
                        display."62 As the session wore on, this impression was confirmed.
                    The House conducted business at a snail's pace; with one week remaining in the session the
                    General Assembly had passed only eleven bills out of hundreds introduced.63
                    "Great dolts with no influence," he complained, consumed the House's time
                    playing to the ladies in the galleries, and the "small fry" droned on for hours
                    about inconsequential matters just to get their names into the records. He found the
                    "incessant noise and tumult" to be "almost intolerable." The
                    saddest thing of all was that "in point of talent" the Indiana legislature was
                    "said to be above the average."64 At the end of the session he
                    summed up his service as "an intolerable bore" and wrote his wife that he would
                    "straight way come home and try and stay there. I could not be induced to
                    come here and spend another winter." Mrs. Gresham had been unenthusiastic about her
                    husband's political career in the first place. Now, he told her, "I think you may
                    congratulate yourself upon my election to the Legislature, for it has pretty effectually disgusted
                    me with public life."65
            
            Events soon forced Gresham to break his promise, for the fall of Fort Sumter compelled Morton to call
                    the legislature back into special session. Gresham admitted that in the regular session he had been
                    "a sort of submissionist" because of his efforts to secure Indiana's
                    endorsement of compromise, but with the opening of hostilities he recognized that there were
                    "times when submission would not answer."66 The government
                    must 
                  
                     62 Gresham to Mrs. Gresham, January 7, 16, 1861, Gresham Papers
                            (Manuscripts Division, Library of Congress).
                  
                     63
                            Brevier Legislative Reports (1861), IV, 325.
                  
                     64 Gresham to Mrs. Gresham, January 30, February 3, March 6, 1861,
                            Gresham Papers (Manuscripts Division, Library of Congress).
                  
                     65 Gresham to Mrs. Gresham, March 1, 6, 1861, ibid.
                  
                  
                     66
                            Brevier Legislative Reports (special session, 1861), V, 66.
               
                     act swiftly to crush the secessionists'
                    "hellish design of breaking up the Union." Before Sumter he had looked to
                    compromise to maintain the Union and order; now he looked to war to restore them. But he resisted
                    casting the conflict in simply sectional terms of North against South. "It is all bosh and
                    nonsense to talk about the North making war on the South," he maintained. Southerners were
                    rebelling "against the laws and mak[ing] war on the government"; the proper
                    response was not to subjugate an entire section but to crush treason, restore law and order, and
                    teach the secessionists "that they cannot attack the government without suffering for their
                        rebellion."67 Gresham's tendency to view the rebellion
                    less as a sectional than as an individual crime would lead to a coolness toward Republican policy in
                    the later days of Reconstruction.68
            
            The special session of the General Assembly convened on April 24. Governor Morton urged the members
                    to "approach the contest, not as politicians, nor as ambitious partisans, but as
                    patriots," and Gresham was pleased to observe that "the Democrats, without a
                    single exception, are for the government & war."69 On the
                    opening day Democratic representatives joined the Republican majority in electing the House officers
                    unanimously, with Heffren nominating Speaker Allen for reelection. Arm in arm Heffren and Gresham
                    escorted Allen to the chair.70
            
            At the beginning of the session the House passed a resolution discouraging the introduction of any
                    legislation which was not of "special and immediate interest" to the state, and
                    Gresham repeatedly sought to dissuade his colleagues from burdening the House with matters
                    irrelevant to the national crisis.71 Believing that the legislature's
                    overriding concern was the defense of the state, he was determined to reverse the fate of his
                    militia bill in the regular session. Because Indianapolis was full of hastily organized military
                    companies, his Committee on Military Affairs was able to profit from the knowledge and opinions of
                    the state's best military men, some of whom had 
                  
                     67 Gresham to Mrs. Gresham, April 25, 28, 1861, Gresham Papers
                            (Manuscripts Division, Library of Congress).
                  
                     68 See, for example, Gresham to Thomas C. Slaughter, April 10, 1872,
                            March 3, 1877, ibid.; Gresham to John M. Harlan, January 22, 1876, John M.
                            Harlan Papers, ibid.; Gresham, Life of Walter Quintin
                            Gresham, II, 459–60.
                  
                     69 Indiana, House Journal (special session, 1861),
                            19–24; Brevier Legislative Reports (special session, 1861), V,
                            12–15; Gresham to Mrs. Gresham, April 25, 1861, Gresham Papers (Manuscripts
                            Division, Library of Congress).
                  
                     70 Indiana, House Journal (special session, 1861),
                            5–9; Brevier Legislative Reports (special session, 1861), V,
                            6–7.
                  
                     71
                            Brevier Legislative Reports (special session, 1861), V, 12, 15, 37.
               
                     seen action in the Mexican War. Drawing upon their advice and
                    his own reading, Gresham concluded that centralized authority was the key to military efficiency. He
                    dropped the elective principle and wrote an entirely new bill calling for the appointment of
                    officers by the governor.72
            
            Most of the ensuing debate on the new militia bill focused on this appointment provision. Facing the
                    prospect of a vastly expanded militia officered by Republican appointees, Democrats rushed to the
                    defense of the "elective franchise," a procedure which they had opposed in the
                    regular session but which they now lauded as the very "spirit of our civil
                    institutions." To lodge the appointment at the top of the hierarchy, they asserted,
                    "takes away the rights of freemen—saps the liberties of the people."73 Nevertheless, Heffren, who more than any other legislator had defeated
                    Gresham's first bill, was now his most potent ally. He and other Democrats had accepted
                    militia offices from Democratic governors, he told his comrades, and now that "we have a
                    Republican Governor, I am not going to object to his doing what I was willing a Democratic Governor
                    should do."74 Eventually an accommodation was reached permitting the
                    election of majors and limiting officers' commissions to four years. Three days after it
                    was was introduced the bill passed the House by a vote of 74 to 5.75 In the
                    upper chamber Senator Simeon K. Wolfe, a Democrat from Corydon, helped the Republicans squire the
                    measure to passage by a similar margin.76
            
            
               
                  72 Horace Bell to Otto Gresham, April 26, 27, 1897, Gresham Papers
                        (Manuscripts Division, Library of Congress); Gresham, Life of Walter Quintin
                            Gresham, I, 142–43; Indiana, House Journal (special
                        session, 1861), 60–61; Brevier Legislative Reports (special
                        session, 1861), V, 33.
               
                  73
                        Brevier Legislative Reports (special session, 1861), V, 57–59.
               
                  74
                        Ibid., 59–60.
               
                  75 For House action on Gresham's bill see Indiana, House Journal (special session, 1861), 90–94, 96–100; Brevier Legislative Reports (special session, 1861), V, 52, 57–61.
               
                  76
                        Brevier Legislative Reports (special session, 1861), V, 72, 80–83,
                        89–93, 100; Indiana, Senate Journal (special session, 1861),
                        82–83, 97, 103, 105–12, 115–16. In practice, the Indiana
                        Legion, as the militia was called, served during the war more as a conduit for troops bound for
                        the federal army than as a defender of the state. From the vantage of 1869 Indiana Adjutant
                        General William H. H. Terrell concluded that the "great drawback" of
                        Gresham's militia law was that it "did not compel but only
                            invited service." Enlistment varied with the perceived danger,
                        and few men in the central and northern portions of the state saw any need to join. In the
                        southern counties, which were subject to occasional raids like those of John Hunt Morgan in
                        1863, the Legion enjoyed a more thorough organization, but even there participation rose and
                        fell, "giving spasmodic evidence of vitality only when danger appeared."
                        Terrell overlooked the fact that in 1861 state conscription would have been a political 
            
            
            The militia bill was but one of several measures designed to shore up the state's defenses.
                    The Six Regiments Act provided that the numerous military companies gathered at Indianapolis be
                    enrolled as state troops and that it be left to the governor's discretion as to whether or
                    not they would be offered to the federal army. The legislature appropriated $500,000 for
                    the governor to purchase arms and another $1,100,000 for further military expenses. The
                    legislators further authorized the issuance of two million dollars' worth of bonds. In
                    addition, the General Assembly requested the governor to send five thousand arms to the river
                    counties and authorized county commissioners to make appropriations for home defense and for the
                    support of volunteers' families.77
            
            Gresham's concern for Indiana's security seemed almost an obsession. After the
                    passage of his militia bill and the Six Regiments Act he introduced yet another measure regarding
                    men under eighteen and over forty-five years of age who were not eligible for the regular militia.
                    These Home Guards were to be organized in cities, towns, and counties and were to receive arms from
                    the state arsenal. Gresham convinced the House of the need, and the bill passed by a large majority.
                    Many senators argued, however, that another organization would serve only to dilute the
                    effectiveness of and divert funds away from the regular militia. By a vote of 21 to 19 the Senate
                    killed the Home Guards bill.78
            
            In large measure the anxiety which Gresham and other Hoosiers felt was due to the uncertain status of
                    Kentucky. Gresham railed against that state's professed neutrality as "sheer
                    folly" and nothing more than a "quasi partnership with the Jeff
                    Davis concern."79 The Republicans in the House defeated a Democratic
                    movement to send a committee of five 
                  impossibility. With no way of knowing the nature of the war to come or where its battles
                            would be fought, Gresham and his colleagues believed the reorganized militia would perform
                            an important service in the defense of Indiana. William H. H. Terrell, Indiana
                                in the War of the Rebellion: Report of the Adjutant General (8 vols., Indianapolis,
                            1869; reprint, Vol. I, Indianapolis, 1960), 172–77; Stampp, Indiana
                                Politics, 80.
                  
                     77 Indiana, Laws (special session, 1861), 3, 5, 13,
                            16–20, 22, 97–98, 99; Indiana, House Journal
                            (special session, 1861), 68–70, 102–103, 107–16,
                            124–29; Brevier Legislative Reports (special session, 1861), V,
                            38, 67, 80; Terrell, Indiana in the War of the Rebellion, I,
                            14–17.
                  
                     78 Indiana, House Journal (special session, 1861),
                            175, 190, 195, 226–27; Indiana, Senate Journal (special
                            session, 1861), 178, 182, 187, 198–200; Brevier Legislative
                            Reports (special session, 1861), V, 116, 138, 164–65, 169, 182, 186,
                            196–99.
                  
                     79
                            Brevier Legislative Reports (special session, 1861), V, 66.
               
                     legislators to persuade the Kentucky legislature to remain in
                    the Union and particularly to urge the Kentuckians to prohibit Tennessee troops from passing through
                    the state to attack the North. Such a mission, Gresham declared, "would be credited only to
                    our fears. It would not look well, when war is made on the Federal Government, for us here to make
                    overtures of peace."80 But economic considerations complicated
                    relations between the two states. Many of Gresham's constituents traded with Kentuckians,
                    and he was reluctant to see that trade interrupted. In the early days of the special session he
                    succeeded in blocking a measure prohibiting commercial intercourse with Kentucky. Arguing for his
                    conception of the rebellion as an individual crime, he claimed that there were men in Kentucky as
                    loyal as men in Indiana. They could not be held responsible for the "extra-official acts of
                    their Governor." He supported a bill which made it treasonable to trade with
                    "enemies in open war or persons in rebellion" but which set no geographical limits
                    on trade. In the end, he argued, the question of commercial nonintercourse was moot so far as state
                    action was concerned since Treasury Secretary Salmon P. Chase had banned the shipment of provisions
                    to states actually in rebellion.81
            
            Discussion of the alleged lukewarmness toward the Union cause on the part of some of
                    Indiana's representatives in Congress threatened to revive the partisan wrangling of the
                    regular session, and Gresham exerted his influence to exclude such divisiveness. When Republicans
                    called for the resignation of any Hoosier congressman who felt "disinclined" to
                    support the war effort, he counseled against any "hasty action."82 The controversy centered on Democratic Senator Jesse D. Bright, who had retained his seat
                    in the United States Senate although since the election of 1860 he had allegedly taken up residence
                    at his farm in Kentucky. When Bright refused to answer the legislature's inquiry as to his
                    residence and his attitude toward the rebellion, the General Assembly sought to declare his seat
                    vacant. Gresham opposed this move as "ill-timed and unnecessary" as well as unfair
                    to the senator. Disavowing any "admiration 
                  
                     80
                            Ibid., 64–67, 110; Indiana, House Journal
                            (special session, 1861), 101, 162.
                  
                     81 Indiana, House Journal (special session, 1861),
                            57, 60, 64, 144–48; Brevier Legislative Reports (special
                            session, 1861), V, 31–33, 93–99, 132–33; Indiana, Laws (special session, 1861), 44–45.
                  
                     82
                            Brevier Legislative Reports (special session, 1861), V, 119–20;
                            Indiana, House Journal (special session, 1861), 186.
               
                     for him politically," he asked simple justice for
                    Bright against whom there had been no proof of wrongdoing. On Gresham's motion the recall
                    resolution was tabled.83
            
            While Gresham acted to smooth over differences between Republicans and Democrats, he grew
                    increasingly antagonistic toward the leadership of his own party, especially Governor Morton. The
                    legislative session marked the beginning of a hostility between the two men that lasted until
                    Morton's death in 1877.84 Gresham was one of a group of Republicans who
                    believed that the governor was using the crisis and its attendant military preparations to solidify
                    his domination of the Hoosier Republican party. These men thought that Morton was playing politics
                    with the cause of the Union and considered his attention to political and factional considerations
                    detrimental to the state's defenses and the well being of its soldiers.85 As a result, they sought to impose more legislative control over the executive's
                    handling of the emergency.
            On the opening day of the special session Gresham secured adoption of a resolution directing the
                    governor to provide for the accommodation of military companies in Indianapolis until otherwise
                    ordered by the General Assembly. After the Six Regiments Act outlined the procedure by which these
                    units 
                  
                     83 Indiana, House Journal (special session, 1861),
                            393; Indianapolis Daily Journal, June 3, 1861. In the end
                            Gresham's defense of Bright proved ill considered. In February, 1862, the United
                            States Senate expelled Bright largely because of a letter he had addressed to Jefferson
                            Davis as "President of the Confederation of States." Stampp, Indiana Politics, 97–98.
                  
                     84 During the Civil War Morton at first tried to block
                            Gresham's entrance into the Union Army and later vigorously opposed his
                            advancement. On one occasion, when the Indiana congressional delegation endorsed Gresham for
                            promotion to brigadier general, Morton wrote Lincoln that Gresham was "incompetent
                            & unworthy" and had "done nothing to deserve" promotion.
                            Morton to Lincoln, January 14, 1863, Lincoln Papers. For Gresham's difficulties
                            with Morton during the war see Calhoun, `"The Ragged Edge of
                            Anxiety,'" 65–71. The hostility between the two men persisted
                            in the postwar period. Gresham resented Morton's prescriptive domination of the
                            Indiana Republican party and thought his "impudence" was "only
                            equalled by his ambition." He bitterly opposed Morton's bid for the
                            Republican presidential nomination in 1876, arguing that Morton's election would
                            "encourage and even embolden the thieves in our party." Although Gresham
                            genuinely disagreed with Morton on such issues as Reconstruction policy, currency inflation,
                            and civil service reform, one observer was correct in ascribing at least part of his
                            opposition to a desire to "repay Morton." Gresham to Thomas C. Slaughter,
                            October 21, 1875, Gresham Papers (Manuscripts Division, Library of Congress); Gresham to
                            Benjamin H. Bristow, December 29, 1875, Benjamin H. Bristow Papers, ibid.;
                            New Albany Ledger-Standard, June 14, 1876; Calhoun, `"The Ragged
                            Edge of Anxiety,'" 122–25.
                  
                     85 Stampp, Indiana Politics, 82–86;
                            Sylvester, "Oliver P. Morton," 113–16; Gresham, Life of Walter Quintin Gresham, I, 143–44.
               
                     were to enter the state service, Morton's opponents
                    accused him of ignoring the legislature's dictates. Gresham charged that there was
                    "either gross ignorance or gross injustice" in the acceptance of the troops. Under
                    the terms of the legislation the companies were to be enrolled in the order in which they had first
                    offered their services and for a period not longer than twelve months. There was evidence, however,
                    that Morton was holding out the promise of quick enrollment to those men who would agree to sign up
                    for three years rather than one. Gresham argued that Morton had no right to enlist men for longer
                    than a year and that doing so was unfair to those companies who had spent money to organize and
                    journey to Indianapolis only to be "driven home again" because they refused to
                    submit to the governor's unauthorized conditions. Declaring that "the people ought
                    to know how it was done," Gresham called for a special investigation. A few weeks later a
                    select committee reported that there had been irregularities in the enrollment of troops but that
                    all complaining units had been mustered into the service to their satisfaction.86 Although the controversy subsided, Morton no doubt remembered Gresham's role in
                    forcing him to submit to the legislature's wishes.
            Gresham and his associates again locked horns with Morton on matters of supply. No sooner had the
                    legislators reached Indianapolis in late April than they began to hear rumors of the poor quality of
                    provisions supplied to the troops in the city. Morton had appointed as commissary general his
                    college roommate, Isaiah Mansur, who owned a meat-packing firm in Indianapolis. A legislative
                    investigation revealed that Mansur had adulterated the troops' coffee, filled pound
                    packages with only fourteen ounces, and provided meat of "inferior quality" from
                    his own packing house. The legislature demanded his dismissal, and Morton was forced to replace him
                    with a Republican state senator. The Republicans then went on to write legislation outlining in
                    detail the procedures for the procurement of supplies and setting up a legislative oversight
                    committee without whose approval no purchases could be made. Incensed by what he considered a
                    legislative encroachment, Morton tried to circumvent this auditing committee until finally its 
                  
                     86 Indiana, House Journal (special session, 1861),
                            10, 85, 104–107; Brevier Legislative Reports (special session,
                            1861), V, 80, 111, 165.
               
                     legality was affirmed by the state supreme court.87 In the matter of arms procurement Morton's critics were equally dissatisfied.
                    Republican George Frasier submitted a resolution directing the governor to tell the House what steps
                    he had taken to purchase arms. Gresham went even further, demanding that Morton furnish copies of
                    all his instructions to purchasing agents and their replies. But the Republican majority succeeded
                    in tabling these resolutions on the day before the session ended.88
            
            Morton's handling of military appointments further angered the small band of Republican
                    antagonists in the General Assembly. As chairman of the Military Affairs Committee, Gresham had
                    struggled hard to establish the principle that officers should be appointed by the governor. Within
                    weeks, however, he had concluded that Morton was turning this sound military practice to base
                    political purposes. To Gresham and his friends it appeared that Morton made appointments with the
                    primary aim of creating a personal political machine and that the bipartisanship he professed in the
                    abstract was in practice designed to draw about himself a coterie of men from both parties committed
                    to his own political fortunes.89 Among the officers and soldiers themselves,
                    observers noted "considerable grumbling … at the Governor charging him with
                        favoritism."90 As the special session drew to a close, matters
                    reached a head when Gresham and a few other House Republicans seized upon Morton's
                    conferrence of a military office upon Heffren as an excuse to register their disapproval of his
                    appointment practices in general. During the regular session Heffren had hinted that in the event of
                    conflict he might cast his lot with the South. After Sumter he had repudiated that position, and in
                    introducing a resolution condemning Heffren's appointment, Lucius Bingham, a
                    thirty-five-year-old first-term legislator 
                  
                     87 Indiana, House Journal (special session, 1861),
                            80, 116–22, 130, 242–43, 253–54, 267–69; Brevier Legislative Reports (special session, 1861), V, 41,
                            148–50, 156, 175–79, 190–92, 206–209; Indiana,
                                Laws (special session, 1861), 4, 85–87; Stampp, Indiana Politics, 84–85; James G. Jones to Morton, May 31,
                            1861, Governor Morton Correspondence (Archives Division, Indiana State Library); Branham v. Lange, 16 Indiana Reports 497 (1861).
                  
                     88 Indiana, House Journal (special session, 1861),
                            349–50, 387; Brevier Legislative Reports (special session,
                            1861), V, 246.
                  
                     89 Horace Bell to Otto Gresham, April 27, 1897, Gresham Papers
                            (Manuscripts Division, Library of Congress); Stampp, Indiana Politics,
                            82–84, 86; Gresham, Life of Walter Quintin Gresham, I,
                            143–44; Sylvester, "Oliver P. Morton," 114–16; Brevier Legislative Reports (special session, 1861), V, 243–46.
                  
                     90 Henry K. Wilson to Dr. Helms, May 27, 1861, Hamet Helms Papers
                            (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library).
               
                     from Jennings County, confessed that his purpose was not to
                    assail Heffren but to "censure the Governor" for a "want of care which
                    his public duty imposes." In the judgment of these Republican opponents Morton's
                    management of the state's military affairs had been marked by "inefficiency and
                    utter confusion." Such laxity, they asserted, was "entirely
                    unjustifiable," but the governor had paid "no kind of adequate attention"
                    to the legislature's prescriptions to bring order out of chaos. Few men in Indiana had had
                    any kind of military experience, but Bingham nevertheless castigated Morton for appointing officers
                    who had no military knowledge or experience and for ignoring all remonstrances against the
                        practice.91 The antiadministration Republicans could not have expected their
                    resolution to pass, but they did succeed in airing their criticism of Morton. Despite
                    Heffren's unpopularity with the Republicans, most of them stood by the governor and joined
                    with the Democrats in killing Bingham's resolution. Gresham, Bingham, and four other
                    Republicans voted against the appointment.92
            
            The legislature adjourned on June 3, having taken important first steps outlining the
                    state's role in the war for the Union. Despite the success of his militia bill and the
                    substantial influence he had achieved, Gresham left Indianapolis with the same distaste for politics
                    he had felt at the close of the regular session. "I have found out a little more of the
                    insincerity of men during my stay here," he wrote his wife after the House had adjourned.
                    "Selfishness is the ruling trait in too many of both sexes." In later years he
                    seldom referred to his single term in the General Assembly. In 1886 he told Indianapolis
                    businessman-historian William H. English, who was compiling a biographical directory of Hoosier
                    legislators: "I do not think I could give you much information in connection with this
                    service which would be of special interest to the public."93
            
            
               
                  91
                        Brevier Legislative Reports (special session, 1861), V, 243–46;
                        Indianapolis Daily State Sentinel, February 7, 8, 9, 1861; Sutherland, Biographical Sketches, 82–83.
               
                  92 Indiana, House Journal (special session, 1861),
                        348–49. Mrs. Gresham gives this account of the Heffren appointment controversy:
                        "Governor Morton claimed that it was my husband who instigated Bingham to introduce
                        this resolution and make the attack. My husband replied that he knew nothing of the resolution
                        being introduced, as he was absent from the House at the time; `but,' he said, `if I
                        had been there, I would have supported it by speech and vote.'" In fact, the
                        legislature's records show that Gresham was present and registered his approval of the
                        resolution. Gresham, Life of Walter Quintin Gresham, I, 143–44;
                        Indiana, House Journal (special session, 1861), 348–49.
               
                  93 Gresham to Mrs. Gresham, June 2, 1861, Gresham Papers (Manuscripts
                        Division, Library of Congress); Gresham to English, July 23, 1886, English Legislator Collection
                        (Indiana Historical Society Library).
            
            
            Clearly Gresham's independence in the 1861 Indiana House foreshadowed the rejection of party
                    discipline which marked his later political career. In the regular session he was one of a handful
                    of Republicans who were willing, for the sake of compromise, to abandon the Chicago platform and
                    permit the extension of slavery below the old Missouri Compromise line. In the special session,
                    while the majority of Republicans more or less passively followed Governor Morton's
                    dictates, Gresham and a few others resisted what they perceived to be Morton's attempt to
                    become undisputed leader of the Republican party and to transform the Hoosier war effort into a
                    vehicle for his own ambition.
            Gresham's wife later wrote that after the special session ended "all the friendly
                    relations that had ever existed between Walter Q. Gresham and the Governor" ended with it.
                    Afterward, Gresham remained an unremitting foe of Morton and of his successor as state Republican
                    leader, Benjamin Harrison. Refusing to follow men whom he considered less worthy than himself, he
                    stood on the outside of the state party's ruling circle, and his influence was more often
                    that of a spoiler than a leader. Aside from personal animosities, however, he was often at odds with
                    the party over matters of policy, frequently favoring the Democrats' Jeffersonian tradition
                    of localism and laissez faire over the Republican tendency toward activism and centralization. Upon
                    his death one close friend correctly observed: "He did not believe in the immaculate
                    conception of a party platform" or "in the infallibility of a party caucus or a
                    political boss."94
            
            Perhaps the most enduring impression Gresham carried away from his first experience in public office
                    was that his temperament was somehow ill suited for politics. His term in the Indiana General
                    Assembly also deepened his conviction that politics was a fruitless enterprise hardly worth the
                    sacrifice 
                  
                     94 Gresham, Life of Walter Quintin Gresham, I, 144;
                                Proceedings of the Meeting of the Bench and Bar, Indianapolis, May 31,
                                1895, in Memory of Walter Q. Gresham, 11. When disagreement with Republican tariff
                            policy prompted Gresham to announce his preference for Grover Cleveland over Benjamin
                            Harrison in 1892, one Hoosier Republican observed that he had "at last torn off the
                            mask and gone into the Democratic party where he should have been years ago." James
                            A. Wildman to Elijah W. Halford, October 5, 1892, Benjamin Harrison Papers (Manuscript
                            Division, Library of Congress). For Gresham's postwar political career see Calhoun,
                            `"The Ragged Edge of Anxiety,'" chapters 2–8.
               
                     of the comforts of private life.95 Even
                    "the most successful politicians," he once wrote, "are constantly on the
                    ragged edge of anxiety."96 Even so, he never completely lost his
                    ambition, and throughout his life a yearning for power and recognition did battle with his longing
                    for tranquility and made of his career, as one historian has called it, "a study in
                        frustration."97
            
            
               
                  95 Gresham to Mrs. Gresham, May 31, June 2, 1861, Gresham Papers
                        (Manuscripts Division, Library of Congress).
               
                  96 Gresham to Elijah B. Martindale, February 15, 1884, ibid.
               
               
                  97 H. Wayne Morgan, From Hayes to McKinley: National Party
                            Politics, 1877–1896 (Syracuse, N. Y., 1969), 440.
            
         
         
         
            A Rural Black Settlement in St. Joseph County, Indiana, before 1900
            
                    Frederick A. Karst
                    ⋆
                
            Late in the summer of 1834 Samuel Huggart, a Negro who had been born in Virginia and had resided in
                    Ohio for several years, arrived at the United States land office in La Porte, Indiana, to buy a
                    tract of virgin land in St. Joseph County.1 Although Indian title to most of the
                    land in northern Indiana had been removed by 1834, the main body of Indians had yet to depart the
                    state, and settlement in the area was just beginning.2 Huggart was a member of a
                    pioneer family that was to attain prominence in the county and form a nucleus for a small Negro
                    settlement in Union Township northwest of Lakeville. The settlement disappeared in the 1890s, and
                    its existence was lost sight of until recently rediscovered through conversations with descendants
                    of pioneers and confirmed by census data and other records.
            Traditional black history in St. Joseph County refers only to a handful of itinerant black visitors
                    and household servants who reached the county in the 1830s but did not stay. According to these
                    accounts, the earliest known Negro settler, a horse doctor, arrived near the end of that decade; the
                    first documented purchase of land by a black in South Bend, the county seat and principal city, did
                    not take place until 1849; and not 
                  
                     ⋆ Frederick A. Karst is an editorial writer and the travel
                            editor for the South Bend Tribune, South Bend, Indiana.
                  
                     1 "La Porte Cash Certificate Number 2986," Records
                            of La Porte Cash Entries, Records of th Bureau of Land Management, Department of the
                            Interior, Record Group 49 (National Archives, Washington); Deed Record Book V, pp.
                            621–22, St. Joseph County Recorder's Office, County-City Building, South
                            Bend, Indiana; obituary of Andrew Huggart, South Bend Si. Joseph Valley Weekly
                                Register, October 12, 1881.
                  
                     2 John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From
                                Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., New York, 1954), I,
                            212–13; Logan Esarey, A History of Indiana: From Its Exploration to
                                1850 (3rd ed., 2 vols., Fort Wayne, 1924), I, 272, 374, 377–85; see also
                            Bert Anson, The Miami Indians (Norman, 1970), 177–212.
               
                    
                    
                  LOCATION OF BLACK SETTLEMENT, UNION TOWNSHIP, ST. JOSEPH COUNTY
                  Map prepared by Frederick A. Karst.
               
                     until 1858 did any black settler arrive who was to erect a
                    building and leave a permanent imprint.3 However, investigation in county
                    records and in manuscript federal census schedules, as well as conversations with older residents of
                    St. Joseph County, reveals the existence of the Huggart family in Union Township prior to the 1850s.
                    During the 1860s and 1870s additional families arrived to form a small rural enclave of blacks east
                    of the Potato Creek State Recreation Area. The settlement continued to grow steadily almost until
                    the onset of its disintegration in the early 1890s.4
            
            The black community, populated chiefly by light-skinned Negroes of southern origin, reached its
                    maximum size about 1880 when twenty-eight "mulattoes" were counted in the United
                    States census.5 Curiously, although no evidence exists to show it was anything
                    more than coincidence, the settlement was a mile from a sawmill at Olive Branch operated by the
                    county's foremost abolitionist, Solomon W. Palmer.6 The area settled by
                    the blacks was heavily wooded and more hilly than most land of the county.
            
               
                  3 See, for example, Martha Merrill, "St. Joseph County's
                        Black Pioneers: A Survey," The Old Courthouse News, III (Fall, 1969),
                        [3–13]; Buford F. Gordon, "The Negro in South Bend: A Social Study"
                        (South Bend, 1922), [5–13]. Charles C. Chapman & Co., pub., History of St. Joseph County, Indiana … (Chicago, 1880) contains helpful
                        information about the Huggarts but fails to identify their race.
               
                  4 U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, population schedules for St. Joseph County,
                        Indiana (National Archives Microfilm Publication No. 432, roll 171), p. 144; U.S., Eighth
                        Census, 1860, ibid., (National Archives Microfilm Publication No. 653, roll
                        295), p. 120; U.S., Ninth Census, 1870, ibid., (National Archives Microfilm
                        Publication No. 593, roll 360), pp. 31–32; U.S., Tenth Census, 1880, ibid., (National Archives Microfilm Publication No. T-9, roll 309), vol. XXX, pp.
                        8–9, 14.
               
                  5 U.S., Tenth Census, 1880, population schedules for St. Joseph County,
                        Indiana (National Archives Publication No. T-9, roll 309), vol. XXX, pp. 8–9, 14.
               
                  6 Solomon W. Palmer had bought the sawmill on January 28, 1861. Deed
                        Record Book AB, pp. 425–26, County Recorder's Office, County-City Building,
                        South Bend. Esse B. Dakin, who wrote about the Underground Railroad in the St. Joseph County
                        area, claimed that Palmer frequently noticed "fugitives dodging about in the
                        underbrush" near the mill and once helped three escaping slaves to reach safety in
                        Michigan. Writing late in the nineteenth century, she also claimed that Palmer had been an
                        admirer of John Brown and had exchanged letters with him. Palmer had also been one of the
                        parties in the famous South Bend fugitive slave case. Esse B. Dakin, "The Underground
                        Railroad in St. Joseph County," comp. by Helen Hibberd Windle (South Bend, 1939), 9. A
                        copy of this work is in the South Bend Public Library and is based on a paper written and read
                        before the Northern Indiana Historical Society in 1899. For the South Bend fugitive slave case
                        see Emma Lou Thornbrough, The Negro in Indiana: A Study of a Minority (Indiana
                            Historical Collections, Vol. XXXVII; Indianapolis, 1957), 112–14; and
                        Chapman, History of St. Joseph County, 618–26.
            
            
            Who and what sort of people were these black settlers on the northern Indiana frontier? What can be
                    said of race relations among the nineteenth-century pioneers in St. Joseph County? Was the
                    settlement a historical curiosity or does it have some significance for black history in Indiana?
                    These are some of the questions which need to be answered from the meager records and from the
                    recollections of a few persons who have knowledge of the black community from their parents. The
                    task is made more difficult by the fact that the black families who resided in Union Township have
                    died out or their descendants dispersed.
            The settlement began with Samuel Huggart, who applied for a patent for eighty acres of land at the La
                    Porte Land Office on September 11, 1834.7 Then thirty or thirty-one years old,
                    Huggart had traveled from Montgomery County, Ohio, where he had settled when his family moved
                        north.8 He paid $100.00 or $1.25 an acre for his land,
                    described as the east half of the northwest quarter of section 29, township 36, north of range 2
                    east; and the patent was issued March 20, 1837, with the approval of President Martin Van Buren.9
            
            Huggart's antecedents in Virginia had apparently taken their name from an early white family
                    that settled on the Big Calfpasture River there. The white Huggarts owned plantations in the
                    vicinity of Deerfield, Augusta County, Virginia. The family was founded in that area by Thomas
                    Huggart, whose brother James bequeathed some "negros" to his wife Agness in his
                    will, probated February 19, 1767. Thus, this family definitely 
                  
                     7 "La Porte Cash Certificate Number 2986," Records
                            of La Porte Cash Entries, Record Group 49; Deed Record Book V, pp. 621–22, County
                            Recorder's Office, County-City Building, South Bend. There are variations in the
                            spelling of the surname. The early spellings generally are "Huggart,"
                            although later members of the family used "Huggard." The La Porte Land
                            Office functioned from 1833 to 1839, at which time it was moved to Winamac. Barnhart and
                            Carmony, Indiana, I, 288.
                  
                     8 The figure for Huggart's age is based upon information on
                            his gravestone in the Porter Cemetery, St. Joseph County. The cemetery, now surrounded by
                            the Potato Creek State Recreation Area, is the burial place for members of the black
                            settlement.
                  
                     9 Huggart paid the minimum price for the minimum amount of land which
                            could be purchased as established by the federal land law of 1820. Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, I, 226. The entire black settlement was confined to one section
                            of land, a square mile, now bounded on the north by Osborne Road, on the south by Indiana
                            Highway 4, on the east by Mulberry Road, and on the west by Oak Road, the latter being the
                            eastern limit of the state recreation area. A railroad track, the New Jersey, Indiana,
                            & Illinois, was laid through the section before the opening of the line in 1905. The
                            patent giving the location of Huggart's land is recorded in the National Archives
                            and in the St. Joseph County Recorder's Office. See notes 1 and 7.
               
                     did own slaves, probably including the forebears of the black
                    pioneers who made their way to northern Indiana.10 By 1810 Moses Huggart,
                    Samuel's father, was listed in the United States census as the head of a household
                    consisting of seven free nonwhite persons in Rockbridge County, Virginia.11
            
            At least several years passed after Samuel obtained his land patent before he actually settled in
                    Indiana. He was not listed in the state until the 1850 census, in which he was recorded as residing
                    in the same household as his brother Andrew, who became the most prominent of the black pioneers.
                    Andrew was reported to have arrived in St. Joseph County in the fall of 1848,12
                    and Samuel could have come at the same time. By 1852 Samuel was serving on a committee of the
                    Sumption Prairie Baptist Church which was making plans for a new place of worship.13 His land patent was certified by the General Land Office in Washington in 1853, and in 1858
                    he deeded half of his interest in the farm to Andrew.14 With Samuel's
                    death at the age of sixty-eight on December 21, 1872, Andrew obtained sole ownership of the farm.15
            
            Andrew Huggart, described in an obituary as the first black person to seek public office in St.
                    Joseph County,16 was 
                  
                     10 George W. Diehl, genealogist for the Rockbridge County, Virginia,
                            Historical Society, to Frederick A. Karst, June 26, 1975. Diehl states that James
                            Huggart's will, written February 11, 1767, is in Will Book 4, p. 30, Staunton,
                            Augusta County, Virginia.
                  
                     11 U.S., Third Census, 1810, population schedules for Rockbridge
                            County, Virginia (National Archives Microfilm Publication No. 252, roll 70), p. 395.
                  
                     12 U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, population schedules for St. Joseph
                            County, Indiana, p. 144; South Bend St. Joseph Valley Weekly Register,
                            October 12, 1881.
                  
                     13 Chapman, History of St. Joseph County, 698.
                  
                     14 Deed Record Book V, pp. 621–22, County
                            Recorder's Office, County-City Building, South Bend. The certification perhaps was
                            required to show evidence of Samuel's ownership since he did not settle on the land
                            immediately and may not have had the patent in his possession. The commissioner of the
                            General Land Office certified it was a "true and literal exemplification."
                  
                     15 Gravestone in Porter Cemetery. Andrew obtained sole ownership of
                            the farm through a succession of quit claim deeds filed by Samuel's other heirs who
                            resided in Ohio and Iowa. Deed Record Book 55, p. 142, County Recorder's Office,
                            County-City Building, South Bend; Deed Record Book 57, pp. 90, 142, ibid.
                  
                  
                     16 South Bend Tribune, October 1, 1881. An extensive
                            search has failed to determine what office was involved. Andrew Huggart almost certainly was
                            not a nominee for any county post. He may merely have "run for office" as
                            constable or some other township position in a township caucus. The Huggarts probably were
                            Republican in politics, as evidenced by the attention given to Andrew's death in
                            the Republican press. Andrew's son Samuel won one dollar in gold in a South Bend
                                St. Joseph Valley Register subscription contest in 1880. The Register was a strong Republican voice. South Bend St. Joseph
                                Valley Register, November 3, 1880.
               
                     born in Virginia in 1816. As a young man he learned the
                    shoemaker's trade. At the age of twenty he moved to Dayton and later to Miami County, Ohio.
                    In 1839 Andrew married Jane Clark, a native of Amherst County, Virginia, which adjoins Rockbridge
                    County along the crest of the Blue Ridge. Her paternal grandfather was said to have been a fifer in
                    the Revolutionary War.17 The couple's first three
                    children—Wesley, Mary, and James—were born in Ohio, and the remaining
                    two—Sarah and Samuel—were born in Indiana.18
            
            Andrew prospered at farming in the Hoosier State and in 1863, with his brother Samuel, purchased an
                    additional eighty acres of land adjoining the original Huggart tract. Wesley bought forty acres from
                    his parents and uncle in 1865, and James bought a similar-sized farm from Andrew and Jane eight
                    years later.19 Although his principal livelihood was farming, Andrew
                    occasionally worked in the winter at his original trade, repairing shoes for his neighbors. Having
                    joined the Baptist church in Lancaster, Ohio, he, too, became a member of the church at Sumption
                    Prairie, three miles northwest of the Huggart farm.20 The esteem in which he was
                    held by his neighbors was reflected in his selection as superintendent of a union Sunday school at
                    Olive Branch—a position he held for many years.21 The Huggart
                    children also attended a largely white school at Olive Branch.22
            
            
               
                  17 Chapman, History of St. Joseph County, 957. The Clark
                        surname may have derived from a white family which played an important role in Amherst
                        County's history. Jane Clark's family could have been granted its freedom by
                        the white Clarks—possibly in return for service in the war—and thus
                        followed the common practice of taking the same name as their former owners. George W. Diehl to
                        Frederick A. Karst, June 26, 1975.
               
                  18 Chapman, History of St. Joseph County, 957. U.S.,
                        Seventh Census, 1850, population schedules for St. Joseph County, Indiana, p. 144; U.S., Eighth
                        Census, 1860, ibid., p. 120.
               
                  19 Deed Record Book AG, p. 188, County Recorder's Office,
                        County-City Building, South Bend; Deed Record Book 34, p. 303, ibid.; and Deed
                        Record Book 52, p. 214, ibid.
               
               
                  20 Chapman, History of St. Joseph County, 957. The site
                        of the church, which disappeared long ago, is marked by remnants of its cemetery, now on the
                        Floyd Downhour farm, 63068 Pine Road, South Bend.
               
                  21 South Bend St. Joseph Valley Weekly Register, October
                        12, 1881. The area in St. Joseph County known as Olive Branch was named for a United Brethren
                        church which has long been located there, although the church originated immediately north of
                        Lakeville. Andrew's and Jane's children later became active in this church.
                        Interviews with Lydia Mae Easterday, November, 1975.
               
                  22 U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, population schedules for St. Joseph County,
                        Indiana, p. 144; interviews with Lydia Mae Easterday, November, 1975, and Charles Bowers,
                        November 10, 1975. The last school building at Olive Branch, constructed in June, 1890, now
                        serves as a shed on a farm near its original
            
            
            In addition to church activities and school attendance something of the Huggarts' lifestyle
                    can be inferred from the building that was probably the farmhouse erected by the family after they
                    settled in St. Joseph County in 1848.23 When built by the Huggarts, it is
                    probable that the house had four large rooms, two on the first and two on the second floor, plus a
                    cellar and attic. A corner of the ground-floor room may have been partitioned off as a kitchen. The
                    barn was beside a long lane leading into the farm, and there was also a smokehouse among the
                    original buildings. Another Huggart house lay farther from the road along the same lane.24 The second house was on the farm of Wesley or James. All of the improvements
                    on the original eighty acres were on the east half of the farm, which possibly contained still
                    another house described as "four acres & appurtenances" and occupied by
                    Andrew's and Jane's daughter Sarah25
            
            The most widely known of the black settlers after the Huggarts was Benjamin Bass, who purchased 120
                    acres adjacent to the Huggart property in 1860.26 Bass, born in 1801 in
                    Guilford, North Carolina, had first settled in Terre Haute, Indiana, before coming to St. Joseph
                        County.27 He bought an 
                  location. School attendance for black children was permitted but not required in pre-Civil
                            War Indiana. Although a few white schools allowed blacks to attend, most did not, and
                            separate black schools were few in number. In 1869 the Indiana General Assembly made
                            official provision for the education of black children and made the property of black as
                            well as white owners subject to the school tax. Thornbrough, Negro in
                            Indiana, 160–82, 323–24. See also Indiana, Laws (special session,
                            1869), 41.
                  
                     23 The current owners of the building, Mr. and Mrs. Martin E. Wagner,
                            23598 Osborne Road, have built a new home nearby and use the old farmhouse for grain
                            storage. When the Wagners installed central heating in the house after buying the farm in
                            1965, bulges in the floor were found to have been caused by stumps left from the woods and
                            protected by the house built over them. Interview with Mrs. Martin E. Wagner, November,
                            1975.
                  
                     24 Interview with Anna Anderson Graf, November 14, 1975. Mrs. Graf was
                            one and one half years old when her parents bought the farm from Andrew Huggart's
                            heirs. Her parents also sold lots in South Bend to relatives of the black pioneers. Deed
                            Record Book 93, pp. 492, 555, County Recorder's Office, County-City Building, South
                            Bend.
                  
                     25 Will Book 5, Box 12, pp. 120–22, County Clerk's
                            Office, St. Joseph County Courthouse, South Bend.
                  
                     26 Deed Record Book AB, p. 190, County Recorder's Office,
                            County-City Building, South Bend. Although Article XIII of Indiana's Constitution
                            of 1851 prohibited further black immigration into the state, the law was apparently not
                            systematically enforced. Thornbrough, Negro in Indiana, 65–73.
                  
                     27 Obituary in South Bend Tribune, February 12,
                            1891. The surname "Bass" frequently appeared in lists of free Negroes in
                            both North Carolina and in black settlements in Indiana. The largest black settlements in
                            the western part of Indiana in the early nineteenth century were in Vigo County.
                            Thornbrough, Negro in Indiana, 33, 51.
               
                    
                    
                  RECENT PHOTOGRAPH OF LOG HOUSE BUILT BY HARDY MANUAL
                  Courtesy Frederick A. Karst
                additional forty acres in Union Township in 1861, and he also acquired land elsewhere in
                    St. Joseph County and in Cass County, Michigan. Although his first wife, Dila, is buried in the
                    Porter Cemetery, it is not clear how long he lived in Union Township, where he never was counted in
                    a census. He disposed of much of his land shortly after buying it, including parcels he sold to two
                    other blacks, Noah Boone, in 1860, and Hardy Manual, in 1861.28
            
            
               
                  28 Deed Record Book AA, p. 566, County Recorder's Office,
                        County-City Building, South Bend; Deed Record Book AB, p. 414, ibid.; Deed
                        Record Book AC, p. 21, ibid.; Deed Record Book 34, p. 359, 376, ibid. Will of Benjamin Bass, Will Book 6, pp. 439–43, County
                        Clerk's Office, St. Joseph County Courthouse. Manual had been a carpenter in South Bend
                        before moving to Union Township at about the age of thirty. He built a log house on a high point
                        on one of the hills where it remains on the farm of Mr. and Mrs. Evan Easterday, 65551 Mulberry
                        Road. In recent years it has been used as the evaporator house for a maple syrup camp. It may be
                        the only recognizable log building of early construction still in use in St. Joseph County.
                        Manual served as a trustee of the Olive Branch church in 1880, and his second wife was born a
                        Bass. Chapman, History of St. Joseph County, 952; St. Joseph County Marriage
                        Records, Book 11, p. 351, County Clerk's Office, St. Joseph County Courthouse;
                        gravestone in
            
            
            
               SECTIONS 28 AND 29, TOWNSHIP 36, RANGE 2 EAST UNION TOWNSHIP, ST. JOSEPH COUNTY
               Map prepared by Frederick A. Karst.
            
            
            Most of the black settlers in Union Township, like Bass, derived from North Carolina, the birthplace
                    of Bass' wife, Dila; Boone's wife, Zipporah, and Manual.29 The
                    Huggarts were exceptions. Another exception was black landowner Farrow Powell, who came to South
                    Bend in 1858 from South Carolina. Powell purchased land adjoining the settlement although he did not
                    live in Union Township himself. He bought his first parcel of property in the township in 1861, and
                    the following year he bought a second piece of acreage from Palmer.30
            
            Life for the blacks in Union Township was apparently typical for the pioneer period in Indiana.
                    Following the custom of the times, they probably shared threshing, butchering, and other farm work
                    with their neighbors, most of whom were white. They frequently took meals at the homes of these
                    neighbors whom they entertained in turn at their homes.31 The blacks'
                    style of farming in all likelihood included the cultivation of general crops and raising of
                    livestock, which practice was common in St. Joseph County during the mid-nineteenth century. The
                    Huggart farms, at least, also included two apple orchards.32 While frontier life
                    was harsh, it did include some amenities. The personal property of Dila Bass, for example, included
                    a bedstead, featherbed, pillows and bolster, a drop-leaf table, and a rocker chair.33
            
            By 1880, when the black settlement was at its peak,34 some of the residents had
                    already moved to South Bend. Benjamin 
                  Porter Cemetery. The Manual and Bass families shared the same lot in the cemetery. Boone
                            and Manual each bought forty acres from Bass in 1861 and another twenty acres in 1876,
                            although in the latter case not directly from Bass. Deed Record Book AB, pp. 199, 516,
                            County Recorder's Office, County-City Building, South Bend; Deed Record Book 34,
                            pp. 359, 376, ibid.; Deed Record Book 56, pp. 344, 505, 517–18,
                                ibid.; Deed Record Book 64, p. 505, ibid.; Deed
                            Record Book 73, p. 433, ibid.
                  
                  
                     29 U.S., Tenth Census, 1880, population schedules for St. Joseph
                            County, Indiana, pp. 8–9, 14.
                  
                     30 Deed Record Book AD, p. 344, County Recorder's Office,
                            County-City Building, South Bend. Powell became well known in South Bend, where some of his
                            descendants still reside.
                  
                     31 Interviews with Lydia Mae Easterday, November, 1975, and Charles
                            Bowers, November 10, 1975. These friendships continued long after the Huggarts and other
                            black settlers moved to South Bend. Several persons recall being taken as children to visit
                            them at their homes in the city.
                  
                     32 Interview with Charles Bowers, November 10, 1975.
                  
                     33 Will of Benjamin Bass, Will Book 6, Box 20, pp. 439–43,
                            County Clerk's Office, St. Joseph County Courthouse.
                  
                     34 The twenty-eight "mulattoes" counted in the 1880
                            United States Census were in six households headed by (1) Samuel Huggart (nephew of the
                            original Samuel), (2) Wesley Huggart, (3) Efferson Manuel, (4) Andrew Huggart, (5) Noah
                            Boone, and (6) Hardy Manual. The other residents were: (1) Rosella, Samuel's wife;
                            (2) Addie, Wesley's wife; their children, Andrew, Lottie, Frederick, and Ora; and
                            James Gilder, single and a laborer, born in New York, his
               
                    
                    
                  GRAVESTONE OF ANDREW AND SAMUEL HUGGART PORTER CEMETERY
                  Courtesy Frederick A. Karst.
               
                     Bass was retired, and James Huggart had found work as a
                        teamster.35 An aging Andrew Huggart was suffering from a protracted ailment
                    diagnosed as "dropsy of the heart,"36 and he died on Friday,
                    September 30, 1881.37 With his death the blacks began moving to South Bend at a
                    quickened pace, and the end of the settlement was near.38
            
            Huggart's will divided the remaining portion of his farm between his son, Samuel; his
                    daughter, Sarah Manuel, and his grandson, Lorenzo Boon, subject to occupancy by his wife for the
                    remainder of her life and to the exception that Sarah Manuel was given the right to continue to
                    occupy the four acres on which she resided.39 Jane, Andrew's wife, died
                    on January 
                  father having been born in New York and mother in England; (3) Sarah, Efferson's
                            wife (daughter of Andrew and Jane Huggart) and their children, Sylvester and James; (4) Jane
                            Huggart; (5) Zipporah Boone and their children, James, Melvin, Abigail, Rachel, Curtis,
                            Melvina, Wyatt, and a six-month-old son; (6) Jeanette Manual and Robert, an adopted son born
                            in North Carolina. U.S., Tenth Census, 1880, population schedules for St. Joseph County,
                            Indiana, vol. XXX, pp. 8–9, 14. The occurrence of the names
                            "Manuel" and "Manual," "Boon" and
                            "Boone" could indicate a relationship between the families although none
                            has been established. An 1880 St. Joseph County directory placed property values for Andrew
                            Huggart, eighty acres, at $2,030; Hardy Manual, sixty acres, $1,350;
                            and Noah Boone, sixty acres, $1,200. G. F. Alward, comp. and pub., St. Joseph County Directory for 1880, embracing a complete alphabetically arranged list
                                of the tax payers of the city of South Bend and the various Towns and Townships in the
                                County (South Bend, 1880), 33–35.
                  
                     35 Timothy G. Turner, ed. and pub., Turner's
                                Directory of the Inhabitants, Institutions and Manufactories of the city of South Bend,
                                Indiana (South Bend, 1880), 39, 90.
                  
                     36 Obituary in South Bend Tribune, October 1, 1881.
                            Huggart's condition would at the present time probably be diagnosed as congestive
                            heart failure.
                  
                     37 St. Joseph County newspapers paid tribute to Huggart: "He
                            was a good man, beloved and respected by all his neighbors, and had many friends in this
                            city." South Bend St. Joseph County Register, October 12, 1881.
                            "He was one of the most industrious and conscientious men we have ever met and so
                            thoroughly honorable that it was a pleasure to know him and be his friend." South
                            Bend Tribune, October 1, 1881. These words presumably are those of Alfred
                            B. Miller, the Tribune's first editor. Older residents of Union
                            Township still echo such sentiments about the Huggarts. The South Bend Evening
                                Register, October 1, 1881, also carried details of Andrew's death and
                            funeral.
                  
                     38 Manual and his wife, Jeanette, sold out in 1885 to George Feagler,
                            whose granddaughter now lives on the farm. Noah and Zipporah Boone sold in 1888 and James
                            Huggart in 1887. Wesley moved to South Bend about 1890. Deed Record Book 73, p. 437, County
                            Recorder's Office, County-City Building, South Bend; Deed Record Book 78, p. 322,
                                ibid.; Deed Record Book 76, p. 20, ibid. The index to deeds in the St.
                            Joseph County recorder's office lacks a proper record of Wesley's sale of
                            his farm.
                  
                     39 The will was dated October 23, 1875, and a codicil September 8,
                            1881, three weeks before Andrew's death. Will of Andrew Huggart, Will Book 5, Box
                            12, pp. 120–22, County Clerk's Office, St. Joseph County Courthouse. The
                            will did not mention Wesley or James, to whom Andrew had previously sold farmland.
               
                    
                    
                  SAMUEL HUGGARD, SON OF ANDREW AND JANE HUGGART, HIS WIFE ROSELLA AND SON CLARENCE c. 1890
                  Courtesy Charles Bowers.
               
                    
                    
                  HOME OF SAMUEL HUGGARD, SON OF ANDREW AND JANE HUGGART
                  Courtesy Mrs. Evan Easterday.
               
                     28, 1890, and on September 23, 1893, the Huggart heirs sold the
                    original eighty-acre farm to Lars and Nicoline Andreasen.40 Among those signing
                    the deed was the younger Samuel, whom Andrew had intended to remain on his farm and work it, which
                    he did for a few years. When the last of the Huggarts left Union Township, their friends and
                    neighbors held a sad but festive farewell gathering in their honor, in character with the life they
                    had shared as pioneers.41
            
            St. Joseph County's black settlement in Union Township was seemingly typical of other black
                    communities in pioneer Indiana. The fact that it was rural and that it apparently preceded permanent
                    urban settlement in the county followed the general pattern in the state.42 Its
                    inhabitants were natives or descendants of persons whose origins were in Virginia or the Carolinas,
                    although several made intermediate stops on the way to Indiana. The inhabitants, so far as is known,
                    were free before the Civil War. Family ties seem to have been strong, and religious practice played
                    a significant role in their lives. The black residents of Union Township apparently experienced very
                    little racial discrimination. Respectability may have been a factor in the degree of acceptance that
                    they achieved and in their influence on the larger community. The practical advantages of
                    cooperation among pioneer neighbors may have been another. Perhaps a third was the small size of the
                    settlement, which posed no economic threat to whites and thus allowed residents to be judged as
                    individuals rather than by stereotypes.43 Despite the seeming advantages of
                    rural life, however, members of the black settlement were drawn to South Bend during the last decade
                    of the nineteenth century, and this, too, was typical of black communities following the Civil
                        War.44
            
            Indeed, it is this typicality which makes the black community in Union Township, St. Joseph County,
                    significant in Indiana history. It was small; it was comparatively short lived; 
                  
                     40 Gravestone in Porter Cemetery. Jane's will divided her
                            belongings between Wesley and James. Will Book 6, Box 19, pp. 292–93, County
                            Clerk's Office, St. Joseph County Courthouse. Deed Record Book 93, p. 523, County
                            Recorder's Office, County-City Building, South Bend.
                  
                     41 Interview with Charles Bowers. The friendship of the black settlers
                            and their neighbors apparently did not extend to intermarriage.
                  
                     42 Thornbrough, Negro in Indiana, 133.
                  
                     43 Serious discrimination, according to one black writer, did not
                            exist in South Bend before World War I, and the black population was small in the same
                            period. `Gordon, "Negro in South Bend," [17].
                  
                     44 Thornbrough, Negro in Indiana, 206.
               
                     its most prominent individuals were not well known outside the
                    county. Its pattern of existence follows that attributed to black—and, in large measure,
                    to white—rural communities of the period.45
            
            
               
                  45 It could also be noted that the settlement's leading figure,
                        Andrew Huggart, was highly regarded by his contemporaries outside the black enclave. The same
                        might be said of Benjamin Bass. The extent to which they were accepted might also be considered
                        significant.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Wilderness Calling: The Hardeman Family in the American Westward Movement,
                        1750–1900. By Nicholas Perkins Hardeman. (Knoxville: The University of Tennessee
                    Press, 1977. Pp. xiv, 357. Maps, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $14.95.)
            
               Wilderness Calling deals with the frontier experience of Thomas Hardeman and his
                    descendants, which experience the author believes "was, to an extraordinary degree, a
                    microcosm of the country's westerning impulse … " (p. 289). Born in
                    1750, Thomas grew up in the backcountry of Virginia, hunted in the Cumberland Basin, and
                    participated in the American Revolution prior to moving his family to central Tennessee in 1785 or
                    1786. The new residence became a staging area, although a temporary one, for a remarkable amount of
                    subsequent relocations by the patriarch and his ten sons and five daughters. Indeed, the Hardeman
                    family migrated to nearly every new frontier and often figured prominently in numerous events
                    related to American expansion. Three sons and a son-in-law served with Andrew Jackson in the War of
                    1812; other family members later moved to central Missouri and then entered the Santa Fe trade.
                    Still others migrated to Texas, participated in that area's revolution against Mexico, and
                    contributed to the formation of the Texas Republic. The family's habitual wanderings did
                    not diminish with the third generation as later Hardemans and their relatives moved to Oregon and
                    California or served in the military at various western locations until well after the Civil War.
            The author, a direct descendant of Thomas Hardeman, utilizes his training as a historian very
                    effectively. This book is not antiquarianism or genealogy: it is something much more than that.
                    Author Hardeman's discussions on land, settlement patterns, economic development, politics
                    and state-making, marketing systems, and other matters provide an informative background to his
                    narrative. He also deserves praise for his extensive research. The bibliography indicates that
                    family records were widely scattered and often difficult to obtain. In addition, he uses his
                    abundant findings judiciously. Family legends, for example, were employed in constructing the
                    narrative only if they could be verified through written records. In the final chapter the Hardeman
                    family's experiences are compared with the ideas expressed in Frederick Jackson
                    Turner's famous essay on the American frontier. The author's thoughtful
                    observations, especially his comments on the importance of the 
                    frontier family as an environmental unit, are perhaps the most illuminating portion of the book and
                    serve as a valuable palliative to earlier scholarship in this field.
            A few weaknesses detract from the high overall quality of this study. Hardeman seems overly prone to
                    associate members of the family with the more famous and glamorous figures of their times. He
                    sometimes burdens the reader with trivia, and in a few instances he adopts a dramatic writing style
                    that seems unwarranted. These problems, however, are annoyances rather than significant flaws.
            In general, this is a fascinating study which might well inspire other frontier historians to adopt a
                    similar approach. The prosographical technique has been of value to historians of other fields.
                    Studying a family over several generations can not only provide fresh insights but may also be a
                    means for attracting a wider readership. Hardeman's book achieves both goals admirably.
            
                    Purdue University, West Lafayette
                
            Donald L. Parman
         
         
            
               Little Kingdoms: The Counties of Kentucky, 1850–1891. By Robert M.
                    Ireland. (Lexington: The University Press of Kentucky, 1977. Pp. ix, 184. Notes, essay on sources,
                    index. $11.50.)
            This small volume continues Robert M. Ireland's investigation of the counties of Kentucky
                    through the period of the commonwealth's third constitution. During this period county
                    government became elective for the first time, and the functions exercised by the traditional
                    cooptative county courts were partially assumed by an elected county judge. But the counties
                    remained the unit of government closest to the daily affairs of most Kentuckians. County officials
                    successfully resisted most efforts by state or federal authorities to trim their autonomy, and they
                    bore responsibility, Ireland argues, for much of the darker side of Kentucky's public life:
                    localism, lawlessness, and the financial debility and mismanagement of most public services.
            Ireland's method of analysis is impressionistic, proceeding from a review of the
                    multiplication of counties and their constitutional status through discussions of county officials,
                    election practices, the Civil War, law enforcement (or nonenforcement), court day as a social and
                    economic institution, transportation policy, and finances. He makes no attempt to analyze voting
                    behavior, the social characteristics of office holders, or 
                    other quantifiable topics favored by the "new local history"; nor, except for
                    concentrating on the Bluegrass in his discussion of court-day practices, does he analyze regional
                    variations in the character and activities of county government. The most serious defect of the book
                    is that is has no map.
            It is clear from Ireland's discussion that the period under study was one of transition for
                    Kentucky's counties and that neither popular sovereignty nor the Civil War nor the coming
                    of the railroads shook up these little kingdoms to the degree one would have thought possible. It is
                    also clear, however, that as the nineteenth century drew to a close, county governments were on the
                    threshold of momentous changes. It is to be hoped that Ireland will pursue his research and report
                    on those changes in a third volume.
            
                    West Virginia University, Morgantown
                
            John Alexander Williams
         
         
            
               Kentucky: Decades of Discord, 1865–1900. By Hambleton Tapp and James
                    C. Klotter. (Frankfort: The Kentucky Historical Society, 1977. Pp. xvi, 552. Illustrations, maps,
                    appendixes, notes, bibliographical essay, index. $17.50.)
            On a sunny January morning in 1900 a rifle shot cracked across Kentucky's old capitol
                    grounds, and Governor William Goebel slumped dying to the pavement. His assassination culminated
                    thirty-five years of political discord, most of which is ably presented in this well-written and
                    aptly named book. Indeed, the old capitol building now houses the state historical society, and the
                    authors of this volume work there—Hambleton Tapp as state historian and James C. Klotter
                    as editor of the society's Register.
            
            Kentucky's history during the post-Civil War decades has a fictional quality about it that
                    makes one wonder why it took so long to develop fully such interesting material. The authors,
                    however, identify these decades as an "historical void," and their purpose in
                    writing this volume is to present the "first full treatment of the 1865–1900
                    period" (p. xiii). In their book, the second of a four-volume series, they have achieved
                    their purpose.
            What is to be thought of a state which remained in the Union yet "joined" the
                    Confederacy after the war was over, thus missing the fruits of victory; the mountaineers of which
                    fought such savage feuds that a civil war nearly resulted with neighboring West Virginia; that
                    watched legislature after legislature  serve vested interests
                    and seldom aim toward any but short term goals; which had a treasurer—"Honest
                    Dick Tate"—who successfully absconded with the state's funds in 1888;
                    and finally, which was periodically disrupted by Regulators, the Ku Klux Klan, nightriders, and the
                    bloody duels of prominent citizens? It is a sad story, yet perversely interesting in its violence
                    and exposition of human frailties.
            Some Kentucky leaders sensed the state's plight, but none were able to remedy it. Governor
                    Luke Blackburn stated in 1883 that Kentucky had resources that "no other State in the Union
                    has, and yet we find her lingering behind every other State … " (p. 215). A
                    major reason for this lack of development (if one first discounts politics as the
                    major reason) was the inept educational system. Although similar to Indiana in population, Kentucky
                    during the last half of the nineteenth century spent about $2,300,000 annually for
                    schools as compared to Indiana's $9,008,000. A Hoosier illiteracy rate of 7.5
                    percent, contrasted to 30 percent in the Bluegrass State, stands as proof of what money can buy in
                    education (p. 197). Significantly, the authors reveal that Kentucky was "the leader among
                    the border states in its violent opposition to the Freedmen's Bureau schools. In a two-year
                    period to 1868 ten schools were burned and another blown up" (p. 204). Emancipation had
                    unleashed racial fears and may also be held responsible for the state's political capture
                    by ex-Confederate politicians.
            Over seventy pictures and maps embellish the book, but color should have been used in some of them,
                    especially the paintings of Frank Duveneck and Paul Sawyier. The colorful jacket heralds the subject
                    perfectly. The authors can take pride in each of the eighteen chapters, nor will another
                    comprehensive study of this era be needed. Almost any reader will find much of interest here, but
                    the volume is particularly recommended to readers and libraries in Kentucky, Indiana, and other Ohio
                    Valley states.
            
                    University of Dayton, Dayton
                
            Frank F. Mathias
         
         
            
               Tennessee at the Crossroads: The State Debt Controversy, 1870–1883.
                    By Robert B. Jones. (Knoxville: The University of Tennessee Press, 1977. Pp. xii, 192. Table, maps,
                    notes, works cited, index. $10.95.)
            Writing in 1951, C. Vann Woodward, in his Origins of the New South,
                    1877–1913, called attention to the importance of southern state debts to the
                    political and economic origins of the  New South. In Tennessee at the Crossroads Robert B. Jones borrows Woodward's
                    "forked road" analogy to describe the economic alternatives available to
                    Tennesseans in the 1870s and 1880s. The right fork led to an economic alignment with the industrial
                    East; the left fork led to an economic alliance with the agrarian West. So important was this
                    decision, concludes Jones, that it placed Tennesseans at a vital crossroads. When they decided
                    ultimately to take the left fork, they rejected the economic tenets of the New South in favor of
                    traditional Jack-sonian values.
            In the three decades before the Civil War, Tennessee, like many other states, borrowed large sums of
                    money to fund internal improvements. The physical destruction of the war dramatically altered the state's ability to repay its debts. When the Republican
                    administrations of the Reconstruction period enlarged these obligations, the debt controversy
                    emerged as the foremost issue in Tennessee politics. The Democrats' return to power in 1870
                    launched an intraparty battle which raged until a compromise settlement was reached in 1883. This
                    compromise reduced substantially the outstanding indebtedness.
            In the intervening years the Tennessee Democracy was divided into two groups: the "state
                    credit" or high-tax wing and the "low tax" or reductionist faction. The
                    "state credit" element—dedicated to the full payment of all bonded
                    debts—controlled the party. The high taxers represented Tennessee's business
                    interests and the state's urban population. With many influential ex-Whigs among its ranks,
                    the "state credit" faction courted northern industrialists to invest money in
                    their state. Good credit, argued these Tennesseans, was essential if northern dollars were to spur
                    economic growth and diversification. Anything less than dollar-for-dollar payment of the state debt
                    would seal Tennessee's economic fate beyond the fold of the New South.
            Although numerically inferior, the "low tax" Democrats were powerful enough to
                    thwart repeatedly a high-tax settlement. Representatives of the "low tax" faction
                    were from the agricultural counties of Middle and West Tennessee. Farmers in these sections suffered
                    the most from the Panic of 1873. The reductionists favored a massive scaling of the debt which, they
                    asserted, had been contracted illegally under Republican misrule. Low taxers feared that full
                    payment of the state debt would impoverish the average Tennessean. For them, writes Jones,
                    "The cost of the New South was too high; … only urban capitalists and business
                    interests would share in its boons" (p. viii).
            
            Jones narrates the history of the Tennessee debt controversy in uncluttered prose. He carefully mined
                    the state's newspapers, but his research in manuscripts unearthed fewer riches. His book
                    raises salient questions which are only partially answered. How did Tennessee's
                    "low tax" faction compare with Virginia's Readjusters and repudiators in
                    other states? How does Jones square his "left fork" conclusion with
                    Woodward's argument that in the 1880s "the right-forkers contrived to keep the
                    South fairly faithful to the Eastern alignment" (Origins of the New
                    South, p. 50)? Surprisingly, Jones relegates mention of his break with Woodward to a mere
                    footnote (p. 169n). Not until southern debt policy as a whole is examined will the winding road to
                    the New South be understood.
            
                    Louis A. Warren Lincoln Library and Museum, Fort Wayne
                
            John David Smith
         
         
            
               Senator Lenroot of Wisconsin: A Political Biography, 1900–1929. By
                    Herbert F. Margulies. (Columbia: University of Missouri Press, 1977. Pp. x, 432. Notes,
                    bibliography, index. $21.00.)
            Herbert F. Margulies' biography of Irvine L. Lenroot glances at the senator's life
                    from beginning to end, but the focus is on Lenroot's political career as a Wisconsin state
                    assemblyman and as a representative and senator in Congress. During his early political life Lenroot
                    was known as a progressive insurgent. He was a La Follette man; he worked for passage of the primary
                    election law, conservation measures, railroad taxation based on physical valuation, and agricultural
                    credits legislation; he sympathized with the purposes of dry and antigambling bills; he supported
                    efforts to limit the powers of Speaker Joseph Cannon; and he voted against the final version of the
                    Payne-Aldrich Tariff. By the late 1920s, however, Lenroot was considered a party regular. The
                    change, Margulies argues, was less in Lenroot than in circumstances. The senator had always viewed
                    politics as the art of the possible, and he was generally consistent in his role as a practical
                    legislator and a moderate progressive. He directed his efforts toward achieving compromise, harmony,
                    and government by consensus, which he thought possible because of his faith in the informed will of
                    the people. However, like many others of this period, he was partisan; the Republican party, in his
                    view, was a vehicle of progress, and he would not desert it for some new and untried coalition.
            
            The search for harmony in politics sometimes brought results, but at other times a satisfactory
                    consensus could not be achieved. Even in the areas of failure (such as support for the St. Lawrence
                    Seaway project and United States membership in the League of Nations and participation in the World
                    Court—with appropriate reservations), Margulies feels that Lenroot made significant
                    contributions. In all, Margulies believes Lenroot was more important than is generally recognized.
                    Much of the senator's most significant work was behind the scenes, and "the course
                    of compromise led to the unspectacular and often unnoticed middle of the road" (p. viii).
                    Lenroot deserves to be remembered as more than the man who might have been nominated for
                    vice-president at the 1920 Republican National Convention. (The fact that he was not so nominated,
                    Margulies makes clear, came out of his own action—or inaction—at the time, and
                    the result was one which Lenroot did not regret.)
            Margulies' work is based on extensive research in the documents and unpublished sources. The
                    author is straightforward in his presentation and is careful to affirm no more than his evidence
                    allows. What speculation appears is clearly indicated by a "perhaps" or a
                    "may have been." His conclusions generally support recent interpretations,
                    particularly those concerning the League of Nations battle and the election of 1920. This study of a
                    moderate progressive from a state often considered radical during the years from 1900 to 1929
                    provides valuable insights into Republican progressivism and into the issues many Americans saw as
                    vital to the nation's well-being in the early twentieth century.
            
                    William Woods College, Fulton, Mo.
                
            Walden S. Freeman
         
         
            Rainey of Illinois: A Political Biography, 1903–34. By Robert A.
                    Waller. (Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 1977. Pp. xii, 260. Notes, maps, bibliography, index.
                    $12.50.)
            Rainey of Illinois is a good, solid, old-fashioned political biography that
                    performs a valuable task in rescuing its subject from undeserved obscurity and elevating him to his
                    proper status as "legislative marshal of the New Deal" (p. 181). Bryanite in the
                    1890s, progressive in the Roosevelt-Wilson era, majority leader and severest critic of New Era
                    Republicanism, and speaker of the House during the First Hundred Days, Rainey was, according to
                    Robert A. Waller, the personification of the  evolution of
                    reformism within the Democratic party. Despite some difficulties in relating Rainey's
                    efforts to the broader reform currents of his age, Waller generally succeeds in his goal of
                    presenting his subject as "an important proving ground for the continuity yet
                    transitoriness of legislative focuses from the turn of the century through the early New
                    Deal" (p. x).
            Waller is clearly at his best in discussing the "nuts and bolts" of electoral
                    politics and the legislative process. He does an outstanding job of placing Rainey within the
                    tangled web of Illinois politics and of explaining the dynamics of his electoral strategy. By the
                    same token, Waller skillfully identifies the conditions, techniques, and abilities which enabled a
                    congressman from a rural district in southwestern Illinois to become a power in national politics
                    and to capture the third most important office in the federal government. No less craftsman-like are
                    his discussions of Rainey's important role in many of the great legislative battles of the
                    first third of the century, ranging from such local issues as the Illinois Waterway to the keystone
                    measures of the New Freedom and the New Deal. The author easily succeeds in demonstrating
                    history's neglect of one who "made a conscious decision to build a career of
                    professional legislative service in the House of Representatives" (p. 51).
            Waller is considerably less successful in dealing with more abstract questions of motivation and
                    interpretation. Although noting in several places that Rainey consistently supported urban-oriented
                    labor and welfare legislation while representing a rural district, the author never satisfactorily
                    explains why the Illinoisian did so or why his constituents permitted the aberration. His
                    discussions of the various forces, both personal and impersonal, that determined Rainey's
                    position on major reform issues are generally too brief and general to provide much insight. While
                    noting provocatively that his subject's "progressivism" fails to fit
                    neatly into any of the prevailing superstructures, such as the status revolution, urban liberalism,
                    the triumph of conservatism, or the fulfillment of Populism, Waller never really attempts to develop
                    a different formulation or to discuss the possible implications of such a finding. Even so, Waller
                    has provided a highly worthwhile service, both in saluting the memory of the "Sage of
                    Walnut Hill" and in demonstrating to fellow historians that the traditional political
                    biography can still enrich historical knowledge in important ways.
            
                    University of Wisconsin-Parkside
                
            John D. Buenker
         
         
         
            
               The Ethnic Frontier: Essays in the History of Group Survival in Chicago and the
                        Midwest. Edited by Melvin G. Holli and Peter d'A. Jones. (Grand Rapids: William B.
                    Eerdmans Publishing Company, 1977. Pp. 422. Notes, illustrations, maps, tables, index. Clothbound,
                    $11.95; paperbound, $7.95.)
            
               The Ethnic Frontier is a collection of essays that attempts to "seek an
                    ethnic history for its own sake, a richly detailed and informing portrait, warts and all, of various
                    ethnic communities, their values, social structures, inner dynamics, and everyday
                    lifestyles" (p. 11). The results fall short of this goal, but the volume nonetheless is a
                    fine addition to the recent scholarship on a vital part of American history.
            In section I Jacqueline Peterson and Melvin G. Holli describe how the social constraints and economic
                    power of Yankee migrants destroyed the multiracial, mixed-blood community of frontier Chicago and
                    French seigneuralism in Detroit. Peterson could be more concise, especially by placing less emphasis
                    on biographical sketches, but both essays are informative. Hugo Learning pursues a similar theme in
                    his treatment of the Ben Ismael tribe in Illinois and Indiana; he demonstrates the willingness of
                    white Americans to employ measures that are often condemned by these same people when used by other
                    nations. In 1907 Indiana passed the first compulsory sterilization law in the world against the
                    mixed-blood people of Ben Ismael. Learning overdraws his point when he attributes the genesis of
                    Nazi racial practices to the Indiana statutes, but his emphasis on eugenics as a "race
                    weapon" is well placed. Victor Greene completes section I with interesting, albeit limited,
                    role portraits of ethnic leaders in Chicago, relating their success to an ability to ease the
                    transitional experience of their immigrant constituencies.
            The theme of section II is survival in urban Chicago during the late nineteenth and early twentieth
                    centuries. Edward Kantowicz believes that the Polish community maintained cultural unity at the
                    expense of political action that might have provided more opportunities for Polish-American
                    citizens. Charles Branham points out that black Chicagoans achieved political representation but not
                    power because of white politicians and a black acceptance of "traditional"
                    American society. Branham emphasizes the middle-class nature of the successful black politician and
                    criticizes him for not seeking radical alternatives. The author somewhat de-emphasizes race as a
                    mitigating factor, a questionable assumption. Louise A$nTo Nuevo Kerr  illuminates the difficulty that Mexican Chicagoans discover in trying
                    to represent a population in flux, especially since World War II. Edward Mazur's essay on
                    Jewish Chicago describes a community that is able to overcome its intracultural conflicts and unite
                    against a power structure by becoming part of it.
            Section III is a comment by Arnold Hirsch on race and housing in Chicago. He indicates conclusively
                    that white Chicago was all too willing to use violence against attempted integration whether it was
                    low-housing or singular residential penetration. White immigrants did not countenance black
                    neighbors as a part of their American dream.
            The strength of this book is its focus on Chicago, and one conclusion seems to be shared by the
                    authors. The "city that works" works better for some than for others. However, no
                    ethnic community failed to respond to the issues pertinent to its needs. Most did not achieve the
                    deserved success, but none abdicated their responsibility to try.
            
                    Indiana University Northwest, Gary
                
            Carl Allsup
         
         
            
               Andrew Jackson and the Course of American Empire, 1767–1821. By
                    Robert V. Remini. (New York: Harper & Row, Publishers, 1977. Pp. xix, 502. Maps,
                    illustrations, notes, index. $15.00.)
            It is a pleasure to review a biography of such solid worth as this first volume of a new study of
                    Andrew Jackson. Jackson has long been in need of a new major scholarly biography, and Remini has all
                    the credentials necessary for the task of writing one. His earlier work has established him as a
                    leading Jacksonian scholar, and the promise of that work is fulfilled in this book.
            Remini is a narrative historian who allows his subject's character and purposes to develop
                    gradually in the course of his well-told story. The Jackson who emerges from these pages is a
                    complex and not particularly likeable man. He had outstanding strengths, but they were marred by
                    equally dramatic weaknesses. Remini reveals both with discrimination and balance. Most important for
                    Jackson's success were his driving ambition, his willpower, his ability to overcome
                    adversity, his ardent nationalism, and his skill as a politician. Remini characterizes him as a
                    "fierce, indomitable man" (p. 379). To his other attributes, Remini insists, must
                    be added Jackson's luck. While he "was a man of considerable ability, ambition,
                    and connections," the author writes, "yet there is much to be said in  explaining his subsequent fame as a soldier and politician to just
                    plain luck" (p. 124). From the vagaries of Tennessee politics to the battle of New Orleans,
                    Remini recognizes chance as a factor in the general's success.
            Jackson appears at his worst in his quarrels, in his hatreds, in his ruthlessness, and in his pride.
                    His quarrels, Re-mini aptly remarks, "diminished him" (p. 186). He responded badly
                    to criticism and hated with a passion. What Remini terms his "mean-spirited
                    streak" (p. 378) was all too evident when Jackson encountered political or personal
                    critics. Yet, for all his weaknesses, he was a powerful and, at times, inspiring figure. He won
                    ardent support, as well as creating intense opposition.
            The overriding theme of the latter part of this volume is Jackson's pervasive influence on
                    American expansion. The general had a compelling desire for American control of the gulf region and
                    was willing to attack all obstacles to expel the Spanish and the Indians from that area. Remini
                    considers both the victory over the Creeks and the battle of New Orleans in the context of
                    expansion; "more than anyone else," he writes, "Andrew Jackson determined
                    the course of American expansion. He was, in fact, the greatest expansionist of them all"
                    (p. 389). Remini goes so far as to say that "the physical shape of the United States today
                    looks pretty much like it does largely because of the intentions and efforts of Andrew
                    Jackson" (p. 398). Jackson was certainly a fervent expansionist, but one can question
                    whether his absence would have decisively changed the course of American expansion.
            This is an excellent biography, and readers can look forward with pleasant anticipation to the second
                    volume.
            
                    University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
                
            Reginald Horsman
         
         
            
               To The Webster-Ashburton Treaty: A Study in Anglo-American Relations,
                        1783–1843. By Howard Jones. (Chapel Hill: The University of North Carolina
                    Press, 1977. Pp. xx, 251. Maps, illustrations, appendix, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $15.95.)
            A number of exhaustively researched and important monographs on Anglo-American relations have been
                    published during the past several decades. Howard Jones' concise study fills one of the
                    remaining gaps in this field. In his work Jones has established some specific points of interest.
                    Secretary of State James Madison erred in his instructions to Rufus King prior to the
                    King-Hawkesbury negotiations in 1803. France did not reject  the
                    five-nation Holy Alliance of 1841 against the slave trade because of the influence of Lewis Cass.
                    Lord Ashburton found the Oswald map in the British Museum following the negotiations of 1842. The
                    author also contends convincingly that American politics blocked the boundary settlement suggested
                    by the king of the Netherlands in 1831. He observes astutely that New Yorkers used states-rights
                    doctrine in venting their anglophobia during the McLeod case, while states-rights President John
                    Tyler took a different view of the national interest. Jones' sensible evaluation of the
                    diverse interests involved in the Creole affair also is impressive.
            Readers will measure a number of Jones' interpretations against those of Samuel Flagg Bemis.
                    Jones sides with Bemis against Frederick Merk in criticizing Albert Gallatin for not using John
                    Jay's papers or searching in the British Museum for maps that Britain had used in
                    1782–1783. He differs with Bemis, however, on whether Ashburton paid Daniel Webster some
                    $pD2,991. Jones finds no evidence that Webster received any such money at this time. On
                    the other hand, Bemis brings out more clearly than Jones that Lord Aberdeen's instructions
                    to Ashburton provided that Britain might compensate Maine. Jones errs, too, on the amount of the
                    final United States payment (p. 133), while Bemis has the figure correct.
            Jones also provides a very helpful picture of the battle of the maps. Bemis, who believed that the
                    Oswald map proved the American claim, neglects to mention that it was dated October, 1782, and was
                    just a preliminary proposal. And the Aranda map—also accepted by Bemis—was
                    detached from any papers that could prove its validity. Jones further defends Webster from
                    Bemis' charge that the secretary used the Sparks map against his own country. He explains
                    that Webster did not then know that it, too, only showed a proposed line. Jones clearly has the
                    better of these arguments. He might, however, have mentioned that Bemis moderated his views in the
                    last edition of his textbook, where he still asserted that Britain had won a victory but, like
                    Jones, recognized the importance of Webster's actions in preventing a possible tragic
                    outcome.
            There are few such errors in the book. Jones does neglect the political factors in the failure of the
                    Monroe-Pinkney mission. He also repeats too often his theme of the danger of war. The lengthy
                    preface is tiresome. Several pages in the first chapter likewise needed rewriting, and later there
                    are some confusing passages about the Mitchell map (pp. 104, 106).  Otherwise the book reads easily. Scholars will soon regard it as the
                    authoritative study of British-Canadian-American relations in the 1830s and 1840s.
            
                    University of Oregon, Eugene
                
            Paul S. Holbo
         
         
            
               The New Madrid Earthquakes of 1811–1812. By James Penick, Jr.
                    (Columbia: University of Missouri Press, 1976. Pp. 181. Illustrations, notes, maps, tables, essay on
                    sources, index. $10.00.)
            The last decade has witnessed an immense popular fascination with natural and human catastrophes as
                    they are depicted in literature and the cinema. Exploiting this trend, historians have also begun to
                    explore men's reactions to former disasters. Students of the West have few such events of
                    greater interest than the dramatic series of earthquakes centered near New Madrid, Missouri, in late
                    1811 and early 1812. The destructive shocks, felt as far away as the Atlantic coast, not only
                    leveled that frontier community but also dramatically altered many regional landforms and river
                    courses. Although the West was still sparsely settled, it contained sufficient eyewitnesses to
                    assure legends, folktales, and scientific inquiries that reflected the senses of wonder, terror, and
                    curiosity that the "shakes" evoked.
            Penick offers a lively account of these topics in a lengthy article that his publishers have expanded
                    to book length through the use of wide margins and an eclectic collection of maps and early prints.
                    The treatment is episodic, ranging from the central story of human crisis response to such
                    peripheral topics as the history of the early settlement of New Madrid. Although the
                    earthquakes' epicenter lay in northeastern Arkansas, the valley of the Mississippi River is
                    emphasized as a result of the disproportionate damage and death that occurred under its steep
                    bluffs.
            The author is at his best when analyzing the complex relationship between fact and folklore. Penick,
                    in particular, offers a delightful treatment of the erroneous belief that the Mississippi ran for a
                    time upstream. His work, however, is less successful in relating the shocks to many of the varied
                    cultural responses of the era. The effect upon the southern Indian tribes appears in fascinating
                    detail. Yet contemporary scientific studies are lightly touched upon, and the impassioned religious
                    responses of fundamentalist westerners are largely ignored. Most of the oversights probably result
                    from Penick's reliance  upon newspapers and travel
                    accounts, which stressed the immediate secular responses of the West. Such comments notwithstanding,
                    the volume deserves attention as an entertaining popular account of man's responses to the
                    unexpected.
            
                    Butler University, Indianapolis
                
            George W. Geib
         
         
            
               Shiloh–in Hell before Night. By James Lee McDonough. (Knoxville: The
                    University of Tennessee Press, 1977. Pp. xii, 260. Illustrations, notes, maps, bibliography, index.
                    Clothbound, $9.95; paperbound, $5.00.)
            James L. McDonough, a Civil War historian, has produced perhaps the first scholarly work on Shiloh. A
                    book on the battle written by journalist Wiley Sword appeared just as McDonough's was being
                    accepted for publication. Fortunately, there is room in the field for both. Sword's work,
                        Shiloh: Bloody April, is longer, more detailed, and more in the traditional
                    school than McDonough's. Shiloh-in Hell before Night has just over two
                    hundred pages of text plus a helpful organization chart at the end. Mercifully, it is not only
                    footnoted, but the notes also appear at the bottom of the page. It is well illustrated and has
                    twelve maps—not enough, but more than are usually found in the average monograph of this
                    nature.
            McDonough raises several significant points concerning the battle of Shiloh and the Civil War in the
                    West. He investigates the Confederate commander, Albert Sidney Johnston, and, refuting traditional
                    scholarship, finds him lacking. Johnston's military experience was limited; in fact, he
                    owed his high position to his friendship with Jefferson Davis. McDonough feels that Johnston never
                    grasped the strategic importance of crucial points such as Forts Henry and Donelson, a neglect which
                    resulted in their loss in February, 1862, and with them Kentucky and Tennessee. Even the brilliant
                    strategic maneuver that almost resulted in overwhelming victory at Shiloh is not credited to
                    Johnston but to his aggressive second-in-command, General P. G. T. Beauregard.
            McDonough also argues that the defeat of the southern army at Shiloh did not result from
                    Johnston's untimely death on the battlefield, as so many writers have maintained, but from
                    blundering on the part of the Confederate field commanders. Indeed, to McDonough, the battle was
                    lost when Johnston's generals disregarded the tactical plan to roll back the Union
                    army's flank from the Tennessee River (a plan Johnston never firmly understood or
                    clarified) and made a series  of uncoordinated, piecemeal,
                    frontal attacks against nearly impregnable positions. The author does not hold with the usual theory
                    that Beauregard withdrew his army just as the Confederates were on the verge of total victory. By
                    that time, Ulysses S. Grant was stabilizing his shortened lines and was receiving reinforcements.
            McDonough makes these points quite convincingly, even though he may seem a bit hard on Johnston, who
                    had not yet had time to mature into a theater commander. It was, after all, only April, 1862.
                    Johnston had not, however, demonstrated any competence in handling large bodies of troops, and it is
                    not certain that he would have developed into a great commander had he lived. McDonough is quite
                    right that the battle was lost through faulty tactics rather than from Johnston's death or
                    premature withdrawal. The Confederate strength was not significantly greater than that of the Union,
                    and because of the poorly executed southern attack the northern army was given time to recover from
                    the initial surprise and allowed to hold the river bank to land reinforcements.
            The author's last point concerns the importance of Shiloh. He believes that it was the
                    crucial battle in the western theater. It is true that if Johnston had won at Shiloh, the
                    North's offensive down the Tennessee River would have been delayed, perhaps even
                    permanently stalled, and Grant's and William T. Sherman's careers would have been
                    ruined. That is not to say, however, that the South did not have other opportunities to win the war.
                    In the West alone, Chickamauga, Chattanooga, and especially Vicksburg were battles at least as
                    important as Shiloh.
            None of the above criticisms detract a great deal from the value of McDonough's work. It is
                    a short, accurate, and fascinating account of one of the crucial battles of the American Civil War.
                    McDonough has produced a needed scholarly work in the field of military history.
            
                    Indiana Historical Society, Indianapolis
                
            Raymond L. Shoemaker
         
         
            
               Jefferson Davis. By Clement Eaton. (New York: The Free Press, 1977. Pp. xii,
                    334. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical note, index. $12.95.)
            "Jefferson Davis, pride of Mississippi, First President of the Confederate States
                    … you are the South in word, Deed, thought and temper," wrote poet Stephen
                    Vincent Benet in 
                    John Brown's Body. The tragedy of Davis was a microcosm of the tragedy of
                    his region's slave society. Born in 1808 in Kentucky, he moved with his family to
                    Mississippi where, on land given him by his wealthy brother Joseph, he became a paternalistic cotton
                    planter. A graduate of West Point, Davis commanded the First Mississippi Rifles in the Mexican War
                    and distinguished himself at the battle of Buena Vista. Entering the United States Senate in 1847 as
                    an uncompromising states-rights Democrat, he resigned to make an unsuccessful race for governor of
                    Mississippi in 1851, served as secretary of war in the Franklin Pierce administration, and then
                    returned to the Senate in 1857. He supported secession after Abraham Lincoln's election in
                    1860.
            As Confederate president, Davis has been the subject of much controversy among historians, and the
                    weight of scholarly opinion is at present against him. The late David Potter suggested that if the
                    Union and the Confederacy had exchanged presidents with one another, the Confederacy might have won
                    its independence. Davis has been faulted for his endless feuds with military and civilian leaders,
                    his sensitivity to criticism and refusal to admit mistakes, his inability to communicate with the
                    people of the Confederacy, and the mishandling of his duties as commander-in-chief.
            Clement Eaton, professor emeritus of history at the University of Kentucky, does not seriously
                    dispute these conclusions, although he believes that critical scholars have not adequately taken
                    into consideration the tremendous difficulties that faced Davis. "Was Jefferson Davis the
                    best available man for president of the Confederacy?" he asks and answers
                    yes, quoting General Josiah Gorgas' remark: "I have cherished and long ago
                    expressed my conviction that the President is not endowed with military genius, but who
                        could have done better? (Eaton's italics)" (pp. 250, 268). So much for
                    the South's vaunted political leadership.
            Eaton suggests that the key to the riddle of Davis' self-defeating personality "may
                    well have been an invincible pride—far beyond that of ordinary
                    individuals—that was closely associated in his mind with the notion of honor"
                    (p. 273); but he admits that the "Sphinx of the Confederacy" remains an enigma.
                    Without writing a psychoanalytical study, Eaton might have shown a greater willingness to probe his
                    subject's private life. Davis' postwar years, when he became a martyr and defender
                    of the Lost Cause until his death in 1889, deserve fuller treatment than the six pages Eaton gives
                    to them.
            
            To date there has been no satisfactory life of Davis. The best of a rather poor lot is Hudson
                    Strode's laudatory three-volume work, Jefferson Davis, completed in 1964.
                    Eaton's book, based on a lifetime of research on the Old South and the Confederacy, is superior to any of its predecessors; but it is still not the definitive
                    biography of this puzzling figure who presided over the South's experiment in rebellion.
            
                    The University of Texas at Austin
                
            Norman D. Brown
         
         
            
               Another Part of the Twenties. By Paul A. Carter. (New York: Columbia University
                    Press, 1977. Pp. xiii, 229. Sources, index. $9.95.)
            Tin Lizzies, raccoon coats, flaming youth, and something called "normalcy" are all
                    part of the colorful, simplistic set of images reminiscent of the 1920s, one of the least understood
                    decades in American history. Paul A. Carter's scholarship, however, strives to go beyond
                    these stereotypical interpretations by depicting that "broad continuum of
                    Americans" who neither flapped nor flamed but "whose stories have never properly
                    been read into the record." Since Carter offers his conclusions "in addition to,
                    not as a replacement of" more familiar portraits (p. x), he omits such well-worn subjects
                    as the Ku Klux Klan or Charles Lindbergh. As a result, the reader encounters a series of perceptive
                    essays analyzing the unconventional, be it the Women's Organization for National
                    Prohibition Reform or Albert Einstein and the "democratizing" of science.
            Carter's first chapter is his most provocative, encompassing as it does an unlikely
                    combination of subjects (August Derleth, Ray Bradbury, Sinclair Lewis, and George McGovern) while
                    exploring the ballyhooed "revolt against the village." Carter contends that
                    scholars have exaggerated the significance of the "watershed" census of 1920, when
                    a statistically urban nation supposedly replaced agrarian America. Challenging the
                    government's misleadingly liberal definition of "urban" (2,500 people or
                    more), the author argues that historians have ignored the persistence of rural values and loyalties,
                    which endured even in McGovern's radicalism of the 1920s. Though relying on some admittedly
                    problematical sources—the reminiscences of three authors and one politician several years
                    later—Carter concludes that if an "end of American innocence" came
                    before the 1920s, "some Americans seem never to have gotten the message" (p. 17).
            
            Carter enhances his interpretations of the 1920s with chapters on the peace movement and on women.
                    His aims are both to question previous assumptions and to present new information. In
                    "Ancestral Voices Prophesying War," Carter juxtaposes the views of Colonel George
                    Patton and pacifists to illuminate the serious, though frequently forgotten, antiwar activism of the
                    1920s. The author's assessment of Gertrude Ederle and Wyoming's Nellie Tayloe
                    Ross, first woman governor in the United States, adds to the data bank, although the overall
                    presentation on women is sketchy, impressionistic, and at times not entirely convincing. For
                    example, Anne Morrow Lindbergh's ability to service, navigate, and copilot her
                    husband's aircraft without raising male eyebrows may simply suggest the traditional
                    acceptance of wife as helpmate rather than a "breakthrough" for women (p. xi).
            Throughout Another Part of the Twenties Carter constructs his history with grace
                    and wit, writing of "the killjoy and the Kiwanian" (p. 54) or of
                    "redemption-by-highway" (p. 10) to capture the 1920s' love of
                    associations and automobiles. More important, Carter's rare ability to relate the 1920s to
                    the 1970s makes his work of interest to scholars investigating both decades. For the most part he
                    relies on printed primary and secondary sources, though some of his most persuasive evidence arises
                    from his recent correspondence with subjects such as Bradbury and Derleth. Although lacking
                    footnotes, the book contains a thoughtful bibliographic essay.
            In sum, Carter's unconventional treatment of the 1920s confirms Henry May's
                    contention that this decade, unlike most others, is fated to be evaluated anew every few years.
                    Carter succeeds mainly in proving what the 1920s were not: simply prosperous and carefree.
                    Unfortunately, he refrains from offering a more integrative, all-encompassing thesis, arguing that
                    "history as it is made is always more untidy than what gets written down" (p. 15).
                    As a result, Another Part of the Twenties will not supplant other interpretations
                    but will serve as a skeptical and stimulating supplement to earlier studies.
            
                    Earlham College, Richmond, Ind.
                
            Alice Almond Shrock
         
         
         
            
               The Hapgoods: Three Earnest Brothers. By Michael D. Marcaccio. (Charlottesville:
                    University Press of Virginia, 1977. Pp. xii, 259. Illustrations, notes, selected bibliography,
                    index. $15.00.)
            Norman, Hutchins, and William Hapgood were observers of, and to some extent participants in, many
                    facets of American life from the late 1880s to the 1940s. Active in concerns ranging from journalism
                    to industrial management, they achieved consistant first-rank significance in none of these. Norman
                    Hapgood's major contributions were as a rather gentle muckraking journalist at Collier's and later as a Wilsonian spokesman at Harper's
                        Weekly. Hutchins was primarily a cultural figure, author of books on turn-of-the-century
                    society. William, the youngest, was a businessman who established a canning company run by his own
                    employees.
            Profiling three such diverse lives in a relatively short book would be a challenge for anyone, and
                    there seems little justification for trying to place all three men in the framework of one essay.
                    Each has his own points of interest, and they rarely coincide. Hutchins' intellectual and
                    emotional life, Norman's journalistic career, and William's cooperative firm
                    illuminate very different parts of American life in these years. Separate articles would have served
                    each man more fairly and less confusingly.
            Unfortunately, this volume further compounds its problems with structural and editorial shortcomings.
                    It is poorly organized, shuttling from one brother to another and often leaving the reader confused
                    as to who is under discussion. While clearly an intellectual biography, the book includes snatches
                    of the brothers' personal lives inserted in an apparently random manner. Hutchins'
                    wife is suddenly mentioned on page fifty-five although nothing has previously been said about her
                    meeting with Hutchins or their courtship and marriage. Two flaws probably result from the
                    book's origins as a doctoral dissertation. The volume is filled with exhaustive and
                    unnecessary detail, as when the year-by-year vicissitudes of the canning industry are described. The
                    work also consistently assumes too much knowledge on the part of the reader, for example, when a
                    long list of Norman's associates on Collier's is given with no
                    identification of the individuals (p. 79). More judicious editorial pruning would have resulted in a
                    much better product.
            
                    Eleutherian Mills Historical Library, Greenville, Del.
                
            Peter H. Curtis
         
         
         
            
               The Federal Writers' Project: A Study in Government Patronage of the
                    Arts. By Monty Noam Penkower. (Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 1977. Pp. ix, 266. Notes,
                    bibliography, index. $11.95.)
            The Federal Writers' Project was one of the New Deal's most innovative, ambitious,
                    and controversial experiments. Not surprisingly, much has been written about it. Most works,
                    however, tend to focus on particular subjects, personalities, or locales; comprehensive, scholarly
                    studies are few. Monty Noam Penkower's impressive contribution to the literature on the
                    project is, therefore, most welcome.
            In a very readable narrative Penkower traces the evolution of the Federal Writers' Project
                    from its birth in the minds of a few individuals in the summer of 1933 to its demise ten years
                    later. The story, as Penkower relates it, approaches the heroic. The fact that no precedent for such
                    a program existed was only one of the many obstacles that had to be overcome. Unlike the other
                    federal arts projects—music, theater, and art—the Federal Writers'
                    Project was not geared specifically to aid the professional. Indeed, the great bulk of those
                    employed in the program lacked writing talent. In addition, writers did not perform immediately
                    before the public, and this often led to charges of "boondoggling." The greatest
                    danger encountered by the project, however, was the constant threat of censorship, particularly
                    after the publication of the controversial Massachusetts guide in the summer of 1937. Penkower
                    details how the Federal Writers' Project successfully dealt with these and other
                    difficulties to fulfill its raison d'etre, the American Guide Series.
            The American Guide Series, according to Penkower, was a balanced, candid, and judicious account of a
                    people and a land "rediscovered in all of their diversity" (p. 115). It was this
                    critical approach, argues Penkower, that distinguished the Federal Writers' Project from
                    other manifestations of "cultural nationalism" of the period. And for all its
                    administrative, staffing, and other problems, the project produced a series of guidebooks that on
                    the whole won high praise for literary and historical competence. The state guides, concludes
                    Penkower, "proved to be one of the most enduring products of WPA" (p. 135).
            In addition to extensive research into the written record, Penkower interviewed more than sixty
                    participants in the Federal Writers' Project. These personal accounts add a valuable
                    dimension to his study, but too often Penkower seems uncritical 
                    in his acceptance of their accuracy. Without indication of supporting evidence, Penkower frequently
                    states as fact rather than opinion claims made by participants whose objectivity seems questionable.
                    In some instances these claims appear so exaggerated as to arouse suspicion immediately, as when he
                    asserts: "Faced with a lax and inefficient director, as well as boondoggling and cynical
                    ex-newspapermen, Rebecca Pitts wrote nearly all the essays for the Indiana Guide" (p. 91).
                    Penkower's sole source for this information is Rebecca Pitts. To be sure, Pitts contributed
                    significantly to the Indiana Guide; but as the Indiana files clearly indicate, the completed volume
                    was the collective work of many talented individuals, only a small number of whom were listed in the
                    preface.
            Penkower provides an excellent bibliography and index, but his shortcut approach to footnoting is
                    injudicious. Rather than number and treat each citation separately, Penkower groups all references
                    in a paragraph into one footnote. Such a practice is acceptable only when it is clear to which
                    source a statement or quotation refers. This is not always the case in Penkower's text.
            The few flaws in this work do not detract significantly from its overall excellence. Penkower has
                    produced a well-written, carefully documented, and comprehensive account of the Federal
                    Writers' Project. It is the finest general work yet to appear on the subject.
            
                    Indiana State University, Terre Haute
                
            Robert K. O'Neill
         
         
            
               Experiment in Liberty: The Ideal of Freedom in the Experience of the Disciples of
                        Christ. By Ronald E. Osborn. (St. Louis: The Bethany Press, 1978. Pp. 144. Notes, index.
                    $5.95.)
            Three Forrest F. Reed Lectures for 1976 constitute a lively historical digest of Christian Church
                    (Disciples of Christ) data reflecting the American religious experience. Ronald E. Osborn, at one
                    time on the faculty of Butler University School of Religion (now Christian Theological Seminary,
                    Indianapolis), considers religious liberty both as the Disciples of Christ's contribution
                    to as well as its identifying characteristic in American history.
            According to Osborn, the American frontier experience liberated the Calvinist theologians from the
                    old doctrine of strict predestination and Presbyterian stewardship. His first essay thus reflects
                    the coincidental development of the Disciples of Christ at the time of the Revolution when royal
                    absolutism was  also being displaced by the democratic republic.
                    Besides citing Thomas Campbell and Walter Scott, Osborn gives a credible illustration to his thesis
                    in the fields of politics and art by referring to such individuals as Lyndon Baines Johnson and
                    Vachal Lindsay. Without consigning the Disciples of Christ to nineteenth century Romanticism, Osborn
                    deals in his second essay with the liberating efforts of the church in evangelical preaching and
                    education. The education of preachers shows the true freedom that the church sought in academia as
                    well as in the effort to educate the congregations religiously from the pulpit. The final section
                    brilliantly analyzes the Disciples of Christ as a contemporary movement. The old anticlericalism,
                    anticreedalism, and anti-ecclesiasticism is put in thematic perspective. Osborn concludes that when,
                    in the broader ecumenical movement, the One Church emerges the Disciples of Christ will be seen as
                    principal proponents of the freedom of the children of God.
            Unlike run-of-the-mill bicentennial productions, Experiment in Liberty is
                    unaffected and unpretentious. Its comprehensive reflection on broad historical sources makes it a
                    valuable contribution to American religious thought in general and (because of Butler
                    University's history) to Indiana history in particular. It is well documented.
            
                    Archives, Diocese of Lafayette, Lafayette, Ind.
                
            Anthony J. Prosen
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Constitution Making in Indiana: A Source Book of Constitutional Documents with
                        Historical Introduction and Critical Notes. Volume II, 1851–1916; volume II, 1916–1930. By Charles
                    Kettleborough. Indiana Historical Collections, Volumes II and XVII. Reprints.
                    (Indianapolis: Indiana Historical Bureau, 1975, 1977. Pp. xv, 693; xix, 411. Notes, appendixes,
                    indexes. $7.50 each.) In 1916 the Indiana Historical Bureau published a two-volume
                    history of constitution making in Indiana for the one hundred years from 1816 to 1916. Prepared by
                    Charles Kettleborough, the books contained documents and critical commentary "designed to
                    illustrate and interpret the constitutional growth and development of the State of Indiana from the
                    beginnings of its institutional history to the present [1916] … " (I, vii). In
                    1930 the author added a third volume to the set, covering the years 1916 to 1930. Although these
                    reference works have long been out of print, contain errors of various kinds, and are not
                    comprehensive, they are still the standard sources on constitutional development in the Hoosier
                    State. In 1971 the Indiana Historical Bureau reprinted volume I, which contains an excellent,
                    complete introduction to Indiana constitutional history and documents which range from those
                    pertaining to the cession of the Northwest Territory to the Constitution of 1851. In 1975 the
                    reprint of volume II appeared. This book consists of documents relating to the amendment of the
                    Constitution of 1851, the party platforms of 1916, and an appendix giving election returns on
                    amendatory or revisional questions from 1821 to 1914. An attempt was made by the editors of the
                    reprint edition to correct the numerous errors found in the original volume. Volume III (volume XVII
                    of the Indiana Historical Collections), reprinted in 1977, continues to 1930 the
                    subject of amendments to the Constitution of 1851 and also includes two party platforms of 1916
                    which were omitted from volume II. The Indiana Historical Bureau cannot be too highly commended for
                    reissuing these three invaluable sources. Also commendatory is the plan to provide, in multiple
                    volumes, an update of Indiana's constitutional history to the present. Lorna
                        Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, Bloomington.
            
            
               Indiana Politics during the Civil War By Kenneth M. Stampp. (Indianapolis: Indiana
                    Historical Bureau, 1949; reprinted, Bloomington: Indiana University Press, in association with the
                    Indiana Historical Bureau, 1978. Pp. xix, 300. Notes, bibliography, index. $12.50.)
                    Although the history of Indiana during the Civil War era has been written and rewritten, interpreted
                         and reinterpreted in the almost thirty years since the
                    appearance of Indiana Politics during the Civil War, Stampp's work
                    remains the only book-length study devoted exclusively to Hoosier politics during the years 1860 to
                    1865. When the book was first published in 1949, reviews were generally favorable, although many
                    historians—then and since—have disagreed with a number of the
                    author's conclusions and interpretations. In a most interesting and discerning preface to
                    this reprint edition of his book, Stampp himself reviews his original work. He is correct when he
                    states: "the purely factual side of my account has held up reasonably well" (p.
                    x). And although, as he perceptively notes, "intervening decades seem to have changed the
                    past as well as the present," even his earlier perspective of economic determinism
                    "explains a great deal and … is by no means altogether out of date" (p.
                    ix). Stampp would revise somewhat, he says, his original interpretations of the peace Democrats were
                    he rewriting the book today; he would utilize the new social science methodology of the quantitative
                    historians; and he would "put heavy stress on the racist dimension of
                    Copperheadism" (p. xiv). Such changes would be made "not because of new evidence
                    that was unavailable in the 1930s. What has changed is not the evidence but the world in which I
                    live—and, as a result, my conception of what is important" (p. xiii). Whether or
                    not historians agree with Stampp's original view of Indiana during the Civil War or with
                    the new interpretations he suggests in his preface—and many will not—Indiana Politics during the Civil War remains a basic work. The author's
                    preface to the 1978 reprint edition adds to its value. The Indiana University Press and the Indiana
                    Historical Bureau are to be thanked for making this long-out-of-print volume available once again.
                        Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, Bloomington.
            
            
               How to Find Your Family Roots. By Timothy Field Beard, with Denise Demong. (New
                    York: McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1977. Pp. xv, 1007. Illustrations, index. $24.95.)
                    Although this massive book contains the usual information and advice for genealogists, it will be
                    most used as a reference tool. Extensive uncritical bibliographies based on the holdings of the New
                    York Public Library include many items buried in periodicals or otherwise not well known. The
                    directory of libraries and archives of the world will inspire many letters from genealogists to
                    ancestral homelands in Europe, Africa, Asia, and Latin America. One caveat: the brief index and
                    amorphous arrangement  of the lists require the reader to search
                    diligently for all bits of desired information. Rick J. Ashton, The Public Library of
                        Fort Wayne and Allen County.
            
            
               Parade Ground Soldiers: Military Uniforms and Headdress, 1837–1910. By
                    Phillip Langellier. (Madison: The State Historical Society of Wisconsin, 1978. Pp. 136.
                    Illustrations, notes, appendixes. Paperbound, $5.00.) Langellier traces the development
                    of Wisconsin militia uniforms from the homespun clothes worn when frontiersmen first assembled
                    through the gaudy, impractical outfits with which many units entered the Civil War. State uniforms
                    after the war largely followed United States army regulations until complete standardization was
                    reached in 1912. The State Historical Society of Wisconsin has presented a well-illustrated study
                    utilizing the nineteenth-century uniforms in its collection. This book is a good companion piece to
                    the Smithsonian Institute's series on regular army clothing. Roger G. Miller,
                        Indiana University, Bloomington.
            
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
