
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 45, Issue 4, pages 327-456. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:45+issue:4+year:1949&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            From Country Town to Industrial City The Urban Pattern in 
                        Indianapolis
                    
            
            Frederick D. Kershner, Jr.*
            
            Sixteen years ago Arthur M. Schlesinger in his study of the rise of the city called attention to the
                    absence of "adequate social histories of particular cities," inferring that an
                    evaluation of the historical role of the city as a socializing influence must await a time when
                    these should appear.1 It is the purpose of this paper to trace the impact of the
                    urbanization process upon one such particular city, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Prime objects of consideration are changes in the relation of city and surrounding
                    countryside, alterations in the city's social structure, and the development of cultural
                    maturity. The chronological limits are 1865 and 1914, since in between lies the period crucial to
                    the transformation of 
                        Indianapolis
                     from town to city.
            Underlying the pattern of discussion are three questions of general importance for the urbanization
                    movement as a whole. First, does the course of urban change in smaller cities conform to the larger
                    national pattern? Second, does this change reflect an independent or a satellite role in the
                    development of such lesser centers? Finally, was the basic relationship of industrial city and
                    agrarian state one of friendliness or of hostility?
            Prior to the coming of the Civil War, 
                        Indianapolis
                     presented only the conventional aspects of a moderately flourishing 
                  
                     * Frederick D. Kershner, Jr., is a member of the history
                            department at 
                                Ohio
                             University, 
                        Athens, Ohio
                     . This paper was read at the session
                            on "The Urbanization of the Mississipi Valley" at the forty-second annual
                            meeting of the Mississippi Valrey Historical Association at 
                        Madison, Wisconsin
                     , on April 14, 1949.
                  
                     1
                            The Rise of the Citg, 1878–1898 (
                                New York
                            , 1933), 448.
               
                     country town. Its very origin was primarily the result of
                    politics, not of economic forces. In 1821 the legislature had designated an unsettled location in
                    the center of the state as the site of the future capital and dubbed it "
                        Indianapolis
                    ." Since the spot was far removed from any break in transportation, the town
                    which clustered around the state house lacked an economic basis for existence until the coming of
                    the railroads in 1847. The Civil War, however, converted 
                        Indianapolis
                     into a thriving commercial center, consumed with ambitious dreams of following in the
                    footsteps of 
                        San Francisco
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    . By 1914 it had reached metropolitan status and boasted a quarter of a million
                    inhabitants.
            This rapid growth was the product not of steady increase but of waves of intense activity followed by
                    periods of relative stagnancy. The first wave or boom occurred between 1860 and 1873 when the city,
                    profiting by pork packing and the railroad net which it had lately subsidized at great cost to the
                    municipal credit, threw off the commercial shackles of "the 
                        Cincinnati
                     blood-suckers" and tripled its population.2 The panic of
                    1873, however, struck the speculation-crazed city a blow from which it did not recover for fifteen
                    years.
            Despite the depression of 1893–1896 the second and greatest surge of business activity and
                    growth occurred between 1888 and 1900, resulting from the development of the north central Indiana
                    natural gas fields. When the failure of the gas supply became obvious after 1900 and local
                    industries were compelled to convert to Indiana soft coal, an inevitable decline occurred, eased but
                    not halted by the development of a great 
                        Indianapolis
                    -centered interurban network and the rise of a local automobile industry.
            
               
                  2 W. R Holloway, 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            : A Historical Sketch of the Railroad City, a Chronicle of its Social,
                            Municipal, CommerCial and Manufacturing Progress (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1870), 107. Although well over a score of histories of 
                            Indianapolis
                         have been written, the most useful are listed below in order of publication:
                        Ignatius Brown, History of 
                                Indianapolis
                             from 1818, in Logan's 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Directory, 1868/69 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1863); Holloway, Indiampolis (see above); Berry R.
                        Sulgrove, History of 
                                Indianupolis
                             and 
                                Marion County
                            , Indiana (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1884); Jacob Piatt Dunn, 
                     
                                Greater Indianapolis
                            : the History, the Industries, the Institutions, and the People of a City of
                            Homes (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1910; Kate Milner Rabb and William Herschell (eds.), An Account of 
                                Indianapolis
                             and 
                                Marion County
                            
                  , in Logan Esarey, History of Indiana From its Exploration to
                            1922 (4 vols., 
                     Dayton, Ohio
                  , 1924), vols. III-IV; Jeannette C.
                        Nolan, Hoosier City, the Stow of 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                   (
                            New York
                        , 1943).
            
            
            As country trading town shaded into industrial city, the character and composition of the population
                    altered accordingly. The so-called "native stock" in 1860 drew heavily from
                    southern origins, but after the Civil War it shifted its sources to the east and north. By 1900 the
                    "Kentuckians," once the dominant group, were being referred to as a small and
                    undesirable element by the new "native stock" whose forebears came from 
                        New England
                     or the Middle Atlantic states.3
            
            Unlike the cities of the Eastern seaboard, where city growth preceded the coming of the
                    "new" immigration, in 
                        Indianapolis
                     the Germans and the Irish began arriving well before the Civil War put an end to the
                    city's stagnancy. In the trading town of 1860, the foreign born were at least twenty per
                    cent of the total population; by 1910 they totaled less than nine per cent.4
                    This somewhat surprising trend should not be allowed to obscure the extremely important role played
                    in the city's development by the Germans and Irish in particular, and the French, Jews, and
                    Scandinavians to a lesser degree. The Germans, culturally the most advanced, dominated the musical
                    life of the city while providing a heavy percentage of workers in the skilled trades and
                    professions. The Irish, at first restricted to the role of common laborers, steadily worked their
                    way upward in business and politics; today the city's mayor and its most spectacular
                    entrepreneur can trace their origins back to the Irish community which centered on the
                    "South Side."
            The declining percentage of foreign born is best explained by the failure of the southern and eastern
                    European peoples to present themselves in large numbers. Although nationally they far exceeded all
                    other incoming groups after 1900, Slavic and Italian immigrants were never numerous in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Even by 1940 the principal foreign element was still the Germans, outnumbering the
                    largest Slavic group nearly four to one.
            
               
                  3
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, Journal, January 12, 1902; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, News, December 2, 1922; 
                            New England
                         Society of 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Reunion and Annual Banquet, 1893 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1893), 7, 28.
               
                  4 Unfortunately statistics for 
                            Indianapolis
                        's ethnic composition are not included in the Eighth Census; the town was
                        too small. Probably the percentage of foreign born was hiher in 1860 than in 1870, when it
                        totaled twenty-two per cent. See Ninth Census of the United States:
                        Compendium, 543; Thirteenth Census of the United States: Population, II,
                        546.
            
            
            The Negro community, well established since the 1870's, had by the turn of the century
                    surpassed the foreign born in numbers. To this early origin it probably owed the unusual degree of
                    racial cohesiveness and economic prosperity which it exhibited. By 1910, 
                        Indianapolis
                     boasted a Negro population sufficiently advanced culturally to publish three weekly
                    newspapers each of which lasted forty years or more, and, outside of the Southern and border states,
                    exceeded in size only by 
                  New York, Chicago, Philadelphia
               , and 
                        Pittsburgh
                    .5
            
            The urban impact remorselessly shattered the old market town way of life, revised its institutions
                    and replaced its culture. As Booth Tarkington put it, "That small city, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     where I was born, exists no more than 
                        Carthage
                     existed after the Romans had driven ploughs over the ground where it had stood.
                    Progress swept all the old life away."6
            
            Certainly it swept away the old local government. From 1860 to 1890 the city vainly attempted to
                    adapt a system of town government based upon a minimum of expense, personnel and services to a
                    population numbering high in the tens of thousands. But what had worked well enough in a small
                    community where officials were known to all and individual efforts did no great injury to neighbors,
                    now led to an orgy of corruption and irresponsibility. In 1890 the same business leaders who had
                    ushered in the new era of natural gas revolted against the paralyzing presence of the decrepit city
                    government. Through the medium of the Commercial Club, specially organized for the purpose, a new
                    city charter was prepared and adopted which expanded the powers of government many-fold and
                    completely reordered its structure. The result was a golden age in which a powerful mayor working
                    through newly created executive boards paved the streets, forced the electrification of public
                    lighting and transportation, modernized police and fire departments, created an effective park and
                    playground system, elevated grade crossings, and made a serious beginning at sanitation and slum
                    clearance.
            Why this sudden reform, with leadership from the baronets of business, one asks? Yet the explanation
                    is simple 
                  
                     5 United States Bureau of the Census, Negro Population,
                                1790–1915 (Washington, 1918), 93. The newspapers referred to are the Freeman, the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, and the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            World.
                  
                     6 Autobiographical statement by Booth Tarkington in Stanley J. Kunitz
                            and Howard Haycraft (eds.), Twentieth Century Authors (
                                New York
                            , 1942), 1384.
               
                     enough—the same ideas of corporate organization
                    which had proved so successful in the economic sphere were now being extended to the political. In
                    the final analysis municipal corporations did not seem greatly different from business corporations.
                    Government was regarded more and more as a mere matter of management; fifteen years later that same
                    Commercial Club sponsored an investigation of city manager government, approved it, and ultimately
                    secured a city manager law. There were, of course, complicating features. As city expenditures rose
                    from $80,172 in 1860 to $5,869,400 in 1908, increasing seventy fold while the
                    population grew only thirteen fold, the agencies wielding this huge power began to create as well as
                    execute policy, to the dismay of many erstwhile "reformers."7
            
            The urban impact upon the surrounding agricultural community was no less devastating. Only by the
                    middle of the Civil War did the population of 
                        Indianapolis
                     equal and then pass the number of farm dwellers in 
                        Marion County
                    . Thereafter the county assumed a critical and mildly superior air toward the city, an
                    attitude sustained by the tendency of town officials to pass responsibility to parallel county
                    agencies and by such practices as the rental of the courthouse basement for city offices.8 Meanwhile the city was subtly undermining agricultural independence. In 1870
                    the big money crops in 
                        Marion County
                    , second richest in the state, were potatoes, corn, wheat, and livestock; by 1910
                    dairying and truck garden products had completely replaced them. Farms had become smaller, more
                    numerous and more valuable, tenancy was on the increase, but the value of all farm production now
                    surpassed that of any other county. Significantly, papers given by 
                        Marion County
                     members of the Indiana Horticultural Society no longer criticized the way things were
                    being done in 
                        Indianapolis
                     as in the 1870's and 1880's; now they suggested ways in which the
                    country might better itself by copying new city ideas.9
            
            
               
                  7 Holloway, 
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                        , 138; United States Bureau of the Census, special Reports: Statistics of
                            Cities Having a Population of Over 80,000: 1908 (Washington, 1910), 110.
               
                  8 In 1907 plans for a. cit hall were belatedly set in motion. See Durn,
                            Greater Indianapolis, I, 431–432.
               
                  9 For example, in 1868 the city was refgrred to as "the rolific
                        parent of the vices that curse society …," while in 1912 all comments were
                        highly favorable. Indiana Horticultural Society, Transactions, 1868, p. 42;
                        Indians Horticultural Society, Proceedings, 1912.
            
            
            While the farmer found himself serving the city instead of being served by it, inside 
                        Indianapolis
                     the basic social institutions were receiving a thorough revamping. The family,
                    declining in size and steadily loosing its traditional social functions, gave serious alarm to
                    churchmen of all faiths who pointed accusingly at the factories and commercialized amusements seldom
                    found in the old agrarian town. Less vocal elements, however, probably sympathized in secret with
                    May Wright Sewall when she averred publicly that "overproduction in a family" was
                    not a civic virtue.10
            
            The same pattern of religious change which was unfolding all over urban America appeared in the
                    Hoosier capital, but hesitantly and incompletely. In 1890, Protestant denominations were alarmed to
                    find Roman Catholicism outnumbering any single one of them; yet Protestant churches continued their
                    steady withdrawal toward the suburbs, begun twenty years earlier. Large and successful revivals in
                    the 1870's and 1880's proved only that the religious interest of pre-war town
                    living died hard, for by the 1890's formerly successful evangelists completely failed to
                    attract crowds. Church membership totals remained high, although some observers pointed out that
                    eighty per cent of the average 1900 congregation were women.11 More and more the
                    churches abandoned an active role in the political arena, retreating to the safety of non-political
                    charity and social work carried on in the rapidly growing slums of the poorer quarters.
            Though the church might denounce the trend, as it did, commercialized amusements and sports steadily
                    crowded out home and family as centers of recreational activity. The Sunday School decayed beneath
                    the competition of the Sunday newspaper; baseball drew both godly and ungodly from churches and
                    homes. In the commercial town of the 1860's the theater, exhibitions of various sorts, and
                    outdoor participant sports had delighted young and old; thirty years later all had yielded ground to
                    the inroads of spectator sports, semipublic dances, billiards and pool. After 1900 the mechanization
                    of amusements introduced a third phase in city recreation as crowds thronged to dime movies and
                    watched the various assorted machines in which men now raced with one another.
            
               
                  10
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, News, May 21, 1903.
               
                  11
                        Ibid., February 11, 1899.
            
            
            The structure of social classes likewise took new shape in urban air. Labor began to grow and assert
                    itself as industry increased. Less obvious, but equally far-reaching was the shift of the upper
                    class from an economic base of landed property to one of cash and paper, and loud were the moans of
                    the older genteel aristocracy as the nouveaux riches elbowed their way to the apex of the social
                    structure. With ever larger hordes of human beings thronging the city acres, wealthy and poor began
                    to live more separate lives. By the end of the century young Hoosier aristocrats found an Ivy League
                    college education topped off by a European tour a social necessity.12
            
            No social institution of 
                        Indianapolis
                     life was more altered by urban development than education. Although under rural
                    leadership a nominally free public school system had indeed been founded, not only was it pitifully
                    abbreviated, inadequate, and poorly administered, but it was not compulsory. Consistently the city
                    fought for educational reforms which rural legislators just as consistently resisted. Nevertheless
                    urban education steadily expanded its offerings with high schools, night schools, domestic,
                    vocational, and musical training; presently the countryside itself adopted these changes. Higher
                    education was represented by Butler University and an assortment of medical and legal schools, while
                    in 1871 the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Public Library commenced a career of steady expansion. By 1900 the city had erected a
                    pyramid of education which served ninety-five per cent of the community and was termed the best
                    school system in the nation by such prominent educators as Joseph M. Rice and Andrew W. Edson. Here,
                    beyond a doubt, city led country into paths whose righteousness few dared question.13
            
            Carl Bridenbaugh, by conclusively demonstrating in his Cities in the Wilderness
                    that all of our present day urban problems possess antecedent roots in the colonial towns, has made
                    it impossible to term such urban problems new. If then the urbanization of 
                        Indianapolis
                     actually created no new problems, it so intensified and altered the old ones that
                    citizens 
                  
                     12 This transformation is brilliantly depicted in the novels of Booth
                            Tarkington, especially The Magnificent Ambersons.
                  
                     13 Andrew W. Edson, "
                                Indianapolis
                             School Work," in Journal of Education (
                                Boston
                            , 1875–), LXXI, (April 7, 1910), 373–374; Joseph M. Rice,
                            "The Public Schools of 
                                St. Louis
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," in Forum (103 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1886–1940), XIV (November, 1892), 429–444.
               
                     failed to recognize them as familiar. Thus, not only did the
                    amount of poverty soar with the increasing population, but the utter depths of wretchedness achieved
                    by slum-dwelling paupers shocked the givers of neighborly benevolence to the marrow of their bones.
                    Under the persuasion of such enlightened leaders as Oscar C. McCulloch, Congregationalist minister
                    and later president of the National Conference of Charities and Corrections, the hit-or-miss
                    charities of the town era were centralized and consolidated into a Charity Organization Society. The
                    result was a scientific study of the causes of poverty out of which evolved a system of social
                    settlements and case work, and the direct aid of government was enlisted for the orphaned poor.
            Likewise urban expansion aggravated transportation problems to an undreamed of extent. The huge
                    volume of city traffic crushed the graveled streets of the central district into a powder, forcing
                    the building of hard surface pavements and sidewalks, and eventually the creation of a traffic
                    squad. Since hard-surfacing was hugely expensive, the city was forced to protect its investment by
                    restricting the destructive excavations of private individuals in the city streets, and utilities
                    thereby became an overwhelming public concern. To keep the city growing, rapid transit, powered by
                    both electricity and gasoline, was given the blessing of urban agencies.
            Urban defense, from a co-operative, neighborly affair, became a major professionalized concern.
                    Defense against fire led to a trained fire department, a city-wide system of pressure water mains to
                    provide firemen with the sinews of war, and the passage of stringent fire laws governing building
                    construction. Defense against crime progressed less certainly. The police force, perennially
                    corrupted by politics, was tardy in adopting mechanical transport, warning devices and such
                    scientific techniques as the Bertillon system. When the passage of a curfew law and the institution
                    of all night street lighting did little to check juvenile delinquency, the local bar in 1902
                    developed one of the earliest juvenile court systems in the country with a staff of volunteer
                    probation investigators which produced effective results.14
            
            
               
                  14 "The 
                            Indianapolis
                         Curfew Law," Indiana School Journal (45 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1856–1900), XLIII (February, 1898), 108–109; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, News, September 23, 1899, August 19, 1902; Act of March
                        10, 1903, 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Ordinances and Charters, 1904; Helen Worthington Rogers, "The
                        Probation System of the Juvenile Court of 
                            Indianapolis
                        ," in National Conference of Charities and Corrections
            
            
            But of all urban problems none directly affected the lives of so many city dwellers as that of public
                    health. With a small and relatively diffused population the town of 1860 was able to ignore such
                    matters as disposal of waste, water supply, and contagious disease, and did ignore them with few
                    exceptions. But with the industrial city the mere pressure of heavy concentrated numbers changed
                    things; waste was so enormously increased that it contaminated not only the rivers but the entire
                    subsurface sources of the city's well water supply. The congestion of population also
                    raised the possibility that disease might race through the crowded slum dwellers as disastrously as
                    fire could sweep their wooden homes, Municipal hospitals commenced operation after the Civil War,
                    but the Board of Health was shooting in the dark until the local acceptance of the germ theory of
                    disease in 1886, clearly marked when the prominent and hostile Dr. Joseph W. Marsee announced before
                    the 
                        Marion County
                     Medical Society, in a conversion as complete and sudden as that of Paul on the road to
                    Damascus, that now at last he too believed in "microbes."15
            
            With the germ theory once accepted, city facilities for research began to give urban physicians an
                    immense advantage over their rural brethren. Moreover, the fear of germs furnished a powerful spur
                    to water purification, sewage disposal, sanitation and compulsory quarantines, at length
                    institutionalized by the creation of a City Sanitarian in 1895.16
            
            Although less universally felt by the masses, the catalytic effect of city growth upon cultural
                    activity was of notable importance. The local pattern of cultural emphasis was much like that of the
                    nation with literature, art, music, and architecture attracting attention in that order. In all
                    fields activity was strongest when prosperity was greatest. Thus the good times in
                    1866–1873 produced the first large-scale literary and artistic movements in the
                    city's history, providing a basis for the remarkable cultural achievements during the 
                  
                     Proceedings, 1904, p. 369–379; James A. Collins,
                            "Humanizing a Court," in the Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1905–), XLI (1945), 363–374.
                  
                     15 Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , I, 550–552; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Journal, October 10, 1898.
                  
                     16 The new city charter granted by the legislature on March 6, 1891,
                            authorized this position, but it was not filled until 1895.
               
                     boom years of 1890–1910. In this period James
                    Whitcomb Riley, Booth Tarkington, and Meredith Nicholson in literature, William Merritt Chase and
                    the "Hoosier Group" in art, and Janet Scudder in sculpture achieved national
                    recognition. The May Music Festivals developed into an 
                        Indianapolis
                     Symphony Orchestra and the Public Library building of Paul Phillipe Cret was acclaimed
                    the outstanding example of classical architecture in America by no less an authority than Ralph
                    Adams Cram.17 The cultural outpost of 1860 had been thoroughly transformed by
                    the wealth, leisure, and patronage of the expanding city.
            The urban milieu not only produced a marked development of the arts but also led to the subtle
                    modification of many traditional ideas and attitudes. Most obvious were the alterations in the older
                    concept of individualism. The successful functioning of the city so evidently demanded a high degree
                    of co-operation and social responsibility that the prevailing individualistic ideology of frontier
                    living was continually breached in the observance. Sometimes lip service was denied it as well. The
                    humanitarian reformer, Oscar McCulloch, declared that the individualistic living which had made
                    possible the achievements of the nineteenth century lacked friendship, love, and community feeling
                    and must be modified to meet social needs.18 Many were losing their earlier fear
                    of the bogey word "paternalism," for, as was pointed out, the entire street
                    paving, sanitation, park and playground movement rested upon the assumption that individual
                    responsibility for such activities was submerged in a larger civic consciousness.19
            
            From the social record of an "average city" like 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in contrast to such paramount centers as 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    , certain suggestions for the student of urbanization emerge.
            
               
                  17 Quoted in The Indiana Federation of Art Clubs, Art Guide
                            to Indiana (
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana, 1931), 13. See also articles by Martha F. Bellinger, "Music in
                        Indianaolis, 1821–1900," and "Music in 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1900–1944, in the Indiana Magazine of History, XLI,
                        345–364. and XLII (1946), 47–65.
               
                  18 Oscar G. McCulloch, The Open Door (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1892), 53–56.
               
                  19 J. B. Elam in 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Yearbook of Charities, 1888–1889, p. 29.
            
            
            Did the "average city" lag far behind the great metropolitan centers in the
                    development of urban characteristics? Can generalizations based upon 
                  New York, Boston
               , or 
                        Chicago
                     be considered valid for the nation-wide phenomenon of urbanization? The record of 
                        Indianapolis
                     would indicate that in social, political, and economic areas the lag was of little
                    importance or did not exist at all; but the cultural lag was clearly discernible. If one may accept
                    the development of a semi-municipal art school or gallery, a symphony orchestra and a free public
                    library as proper measuring sticks of cultural maturity, then 
                        Indianapolis
                     lagged as much as thirty years behind the urban leaders.
            Where did the "average city" get its urban ideas? In the case of 
                        Indianapolis
                     new ideas came not primarily from neighbors like 
                  Cincinnati, Chicago
               , or 
                        St. Louis
                    , but from all the cities of urban America. Especially after 1890 did horizons broaden.
                    Observers were dispatched at municipal expense to examine innovations firsthand wherever they might
                    appear. 
                        Indianapolis
                     considered herself a star in the urban firmament, and true cosmopolitan pride would no
                    longer permit a slavish adherence to the example of any single city or region.
            Finally, the manner in which 
                        Indianapolis
                     functioned to preserve rather than destroy state integrity is most suggestive. In 1860,
                    Indiana alone among her neighbors lacked a great urban development—
                        Ohio
                     had 
                  Cincinnati, Kentucky
                had 
                  Louisville, Illinois
                had 
                        Chicago
                    , and 
                  Michigan, Detroit
               . The state was so torn between the economic and
                    cultural pulls of these urban centers that the fabric of state loyalty seemed seriously threatened.
                    Thus the rise of a domestic industrial focus in the exact center of the state—far away
                    from any natural break in transportation, be it noted—received a great deal of unexpected
                    support. Farmer criticism was strangely mild, the state government proved remarkably receptive to
                    city requests and the unworthy squabbling between state and municipal governments so generally found
                    elsewhere is not here encountered. That 
                        Indianapolis
                     was also the state capital may provide a partial answer, but the deviation is best
                    explained as the product of a realization that a large Hoosier city furnished the best guarantee for
                    the continued existence of a Hoosier individuality. Certainly it proved so. Greater 
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     provided a central bulwark of cultural defense for all Hoosierdom which has functioned
                    powerfully from the closing decades of the last century until the present moment.
         
         
         
            Graphic Mechanisms of Communication in Native North America
            Kenneth Croft*
            
            From the evidence at our command, we can distinguish the following types of writing in the world: (1)
                    picture-writing, (2) ideographic word-writing, (3) syllable-writing, (4) alphabetic writing, whether
                    traditional or devised by linguists. Somewhat different distinctions have been suggested by others. 
                        Bloomfield
                     divides writing systems into three main types: picture-writing, word-writing, and
                    alphabetic writing.1 Pedersen classifies the Old World systems of writing in
                    four groups: pre-alphabetic schemes including (1) word- and syllable-script, (2) syllable-script,
                    and alphabetical schemes including (3) the Semitic alphabet (a syllable-script) and (4) the Greek
                    alphabet (vowel- and consonant-script).2 Diringer sets up four main classes of
                    "true" writing: pictography or picture-writing, ideographic writing, transitional
                    scripts, and phonetic writing (syllabic and alphabetic).3
            
            It is often asserted that the beginnings of writing probably lie in pictorial art, such as the
                    drawings and paintings left by the ancient cave dwellers of the Old World. The earliest linguistic
                    monuments still extant contain elements having pictographic appearance. But the pictures became so
                    conventionalized in the course of time that in modern writing it is impossible to connect symbols
                    with the objects they originally depicted.4
            
            
               
                  * Kenneth Croft is a graduate student in linguistics and
                        anthropology at Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana. At present he is in 
                            Mexico
                         City on a Rockefeller Foundation Fellowship making a study of the language of the
                        Aztec Indians, including their own writing.
               
                  1 Leonard Bloomfield, "Linguistics and Reading," Elementary English Review (
                            Detroit
                        , 1924–), XIX (1942), 125–130.
               
                  2 Holger Pedersen, Linguistic Science in the Nineteenth
                            Centurg (
                            Cambridge
                        , 1931), 142.
               
                  3 David Diringer, The Alphabet, a Key to the History of
                            Mankind (
                            New York
                        , 1948), 31–37.
               
                        
                     4 The Chinese since the second millennium B. C. have practiced a system
                            of word-writing. Each word is represented by a conventional character, and the word order is
                            the same as in speech. Chinese characters, constituting ideographic word-writing, give no
                            indication of the pronunciation that the words receive.
                        Two ancient systems of writing were mixtures of word-symbols and syllable-symbols. Cuneiform
                            writing is attested as early as 4000 B. C. and was employed extensively in the Near East by
                            the second millennium B. C. It consisted of triangular or wedge-shaped characters which seem
                            to have developed from pictorial representations.
                    
            
            
            
               Fig. 1 Ojibwa Mnemonic. After Mallery.
            
            
               Fig. 2 Eskimo Mnemonic. After Orehard.
            
            
               Fig. 3 Gen. Mackenzie Defeats the Cheyenne. After Mellery.
            
            
               Fig. 4 Ojibwa Deer Hunt. After Hoffman.
            
            
               Fig. 5 Chippewa Notice of Visit. After School craft.
            
            
               Fig. 6 Micmao Warning Notice. After Mallery.
            
            
               Fig. 7 Sioux Peace Offering. After Schoolcraft.
            
            
               Fig. 8 Ojibwa Social Missive. After Hoffman.
            
            
               Fig. 9 Potition to the President. After Schoolcraft.
            
            
               Fig. 10 Cuauhtitlan.
            
            
               Fig. 11 Cuauhanehuao.
            
            
               Fig. 12 Goatzinoo.
            
            
               Fig. 13 Xilotepec.
            
            
               Fig. 14 Tepeyacao.
            
            
            The type of writing with the greatest geographical distribution in aboriginal America was pictography
                    or picture-writing: graphic symbols which are not correlated with linguistic forms. The pictured
                    elements—people, dwellings, birds, mammals, reptiles, insects, swastikas, circles,
                    etc—were drawn either with an emphasis on arbitrarily selected detail or without detail,
                    as mere approximations or general outlines. Each system had its own methods of conventionalization.
            The American aborigines pictured objects and events on organic and inorganic materials. The practice
                    of using animal skins for writing surfaces was characteristic of the tribes in the Plains and the
                    Eastern Woodlands; the latter employed bark and wood probably just as extensively. Instances of
                    intra-tribal and inter-tribal communication by means of pictured messages have been reported among
                    the Indians around the Great Lakes region.5
            
            Of all pictographs existing today the most widespread are the figures made by carving, pecking, and
                    painting on stone—petroglyphs. These seem to occur most abundantly in the Great Basin
                    region of the United States. Although a large part of the pictures are recognizable, it is possible
                    to interpret only a small minority of them.6
            
            Pictographs can be classified as: (1) mnemonics, (2) records, (3)
                        notices, (4) missives, and (5) uninterpreted
                    
                  
                            Hieroglyphic writing, the extant records of which are of similar antiquity, was also
                                conventionalized but retained realistic pictographic symbols. Both cuneiform, used by
                                the Sumerians and Assyrians, and Egyptian hieroglyphics contained word-characters
                                denoting actual objects and syllable-characters indicating phonetic syllables. In the
                                syllabic hieroglyphs the characters represented only the consonantal elements, as is
                                also the case in early Semitic.
                            Western Semitic writing, employed by the peoples of Canaan with inscriptional evidence
                                dating from about 1400 B. C., was purely syllabic and probably an extension of the
                                Egyptian system. A given sign designated a consonant alone or all the syllables which
                                consisted of that particular consonant in combination with any vowel. As in hieroglyphic
                                writing, the vowels were left for the reader to supply.
                            The syllabic characters of the Semitic orthography were borrowed by the Greeks and
                                adapted by them to an alphabetic form of writing. In this system both vowels and
                                consonants were indicated, and from it our own alphabet is derived. Cf. E. H. Sturtevant, Introduction to Linguistic Science (
                                    New Haven
                                , 1947), 19–29.
                        
                  
                     5 Garrick Mallery, Picture-writing of the American
                                Indians, in U. S. Bureau of American Ethnology Annual Report
                            (Washington, 1881–), X (1893) pp. 3–822; H. R. Schoolcraft, Information respecting the History, Condition and Prospects of the Indian
                                Tribes of the United States (5 vols., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1853–1856).
                  
                     6 J. H. Steward, Petroglyphs of the United States,
                            in Smithsonian Institution Annual Report (Washington, 1849–),
                            1936, pp. 406–425.
               
                    
                    forms.7 Mnemonics, records, and uninterpreted forms differ
                    from notices and missives in that they are generally intelligible to only those who made them. The
                    figures in mnemonics remind the writer of particular objects or words equated to the objects in his
                    language. While largely extensions of mnen-onics, records serve to recall complete actions or
                    significant events in their entirety. Both notices and missives are intended to solicit cooperation
                    or interaction between individuals or groups of individuals. Notices disseminate information in
                    general and are more or less permanent, whereas missives, having transitory importance with a sense
                    of urgency, are designed to accomplish a specific objective with a specific person or people. The
                    bulk of pictographs fall into the fifth category—uninterpreted forms: the determination
                    of their function and reason for existence is no longer possible, and the interpretations assigned
                    to them, if any, are wholly conjectural.
            
               Mnemonics are memory aids. Pictured mnemonics constitute relatively ambiguous
                    partial reports: a single symbol may memorandize a word or an entire phrase or even an idea. Figures
                    incised on birch bark by means of a piece of bone or a nail furnished the Mide'wiwin or
                    Grand Medicine Society of the Ojibwa8 and other Central Algonquian tribes9 with mnemonics for recalling texts of ceremonial chants in initiation rites
                    and in the preparation of medicines. The characters, generally drawn to be read from left to right,
                    marked the order of the stanzas and at the same time were equated to words in the text. Part of a
                    bark mnemonic used by an Ojibwa Mide is reproduced in Figure 1. Following is an English rendition of
                    the text as given by Mallery:10
            
            
               The stars.
               The wolf that runs. 
                     
                                
                           7 We distinish these from extra-graphic mechanisms, namely sign
                                    "language, smoke signals, notched sticks, knotted cords, and wamum belts,
                                    which have some functions in common with pictographs but all outside the scope of
                                    this paer.
                                Native American pidographs Enown to exist number into thousands. Only a few examples
                                    from each category can be described and discussed within the limits of this
                                uauer.
                            
                     
                        8 W. J. Hoffman, The Mide'wiwin
                                    ‘Grand Medicine Society’ of the Ojibwa, in U. S. Bureau
                                of American Ethnology Annual Report, VII (1891) pp.
                                149–300.
                     
                        9 D. A. Cadzow, "Bark Records of Bungi Midkwin
                                Society," Indian Notes (
                                    New York
                                . 1924–1930). III (1926). 123–134.
                     
                        10 Mallery, Picture-writing of the American
                                Indians, in U. S. Bureau of American Ethnology Annual Report, X,
                                243–245.
                  
               
               
               See me what I have; what I have.
               See what I am about to do.
               The house of the beaver.
               I, who made a noise.
               My hair is white.
               The house of the otter.
               Hear me, you, to whom I am talking.
               I am walking on the hard sand beach.
               I am about to depart; I will liken myself to a bear.
                
               I am about to speak to the sky.
               My arrow point is of iron, and about to kill a male bear.
               I am holding my pail.
               I am raising a rock.
               I stand by the tree.
               I stoop as I walk.
            
            Shamans of the Cuna tribe in Panama used pictographic memoranda for incantations in ceremonies
                    connected with treating patients, collecting medicinal herbs, burying the dead, and initiating
                    younger shamans. The characters were produced in color on paper obtained from the whites and had a
                    boustrophic arrangement.11
            
            The Walam Olum or "red score" of the 
                        Delaware
                     consisted of a series of pictographs designed to memorandize certain chants dealing
                    with the creation, the deluge, and migration.12
            
            A present-day mnemonic is shown in Figure 2. An Eskimo, in charge of an outlying post at
                    Chookfoktolik, Alaska, made the drawings with a lead pencil on a piece of wrapping paper listing
                    supplies needed to replenish his stock. These memoranda served to remind the carrier of the kind of
                    goods wanted when he went to Bethel, Alaska, about 75 miles away, but he had to trust his memory for
                    the quantity and quality.13 The decipherable items are:
            
               4. Nyak
               5. Stand lamp for coal-oil
               6. Window-glass panes
               7. Can of coal-oil
               8. Cooking-pot
               9. Camp axe
               12. Sheath knife
               13. Tea-kettle
               14. Cotton twine
               15. Bell
               16. File
               18. Dog chain 
                     
                        11 Erland Nordenskiöld, Picture-writing
                                    and other Documents by Néle (Göteborg, 1928),
                                13–22.
                     
                        12 D. G. Brinton, The Lenâpé
                                    and their Legends (
                                    Philadelphia
                                , 1885).
                     
                        13 W. C. Orchard, "Present-day Pictography," Indian Notes, I (1924), 70–73.
                  
               
               
               20. Pipe
               21. Comb
               22. Ground-squirrel skin
               23. Glove
               24. Shirt
               26. Bolt of calico
               27. Bolt of standard drilling
               28. Other cloth
               29. Same
               30. Shears
               31. Coil of line
               33. Spoon
               34. Bag of tobacco
               36. Shoe
               37. Bolt of gingham
               38. Cooking-pan
               41. Pail of lard
            
            Tribal records—forays, battles, hunts, and other notable events
                    affecting the tribe—were sometimes set down pictographically. Several Plains and
                    Woodlands tribes had a chronological system called the winter count, in which each year was recorded
                    by a figure denoting an event occurring that year.14 The sides of tepees,
                    buffalo robes, and pieces of buckskin provided surfaces for the pictures. Lone Dog, a Yankton
                    Dakota, painted figures in red and black on his buffalo robe.15 According to his
                    count, eight short vertical lines joined by a long stroke below indicated that eight Dakota warriors
                    were slain. The figure of an elk pierced by an arrow and blood flowing from the wound signified a
                    successful hunt, in which a large number of the animals were killed.
            A tepee with cloven hoof prints in front of it indicated that buffalo were so plentiful that year,
                    their tracks came close to the camp area. An outbreak of measles was denoted by a rough outline of a
                    blotched head and body. The figures had a spiral arrangement, beginning in a center and continually
                    receding from it. Lone Dog's count covered a seventy-year period, starting with the winter
                    of 1800–1801.16
            
            Battiste Good, a Brule Dakota, also devised a chronological record attributed from the year 901 to
                    1880. Single pictures represented varying periods of time between 901 and 1.700 based on tribal
                    traditions, but starting with the latter date, yearly accounts were maintained in substantially the
                    same fashion as Lone Dog's calendar. Good, who lived only in the 19th century, gathered his
                    material for years from the old people of the tribe and placed the events in chronological order.
                    Other winter counts have been reported among the 
                  
                     14 A Dakota year covered part of two of our years, since their
                            temporal unit was reckoned from one snow season to the next.
                  
                     15 Mallery, Picture-writing of the American Indians,
                            in U. S. Bureau of American Ethnology Annual Report, X, 266.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., 273–287.
               
                     Oglala Dakota, particularly those of American-Horse and
                        Cloud-Shield.17
            
            Mooney describes five calendrical tables made by the Kiowa.18 They follow the
                    same general pattern as those of the Dakota. But one, instead of being an annual record, pictures an
                    event for each month or moon.
            American-Horse's winter count gives a pictorial representation of how the Oglala helped
                    General Mackenzie defeat the Cheyenne (Figure 3).19 The Indian wearing the
                    ornamental headdress was the first to enter the Cheyenne encampment, figured by the tepees in a
                    circle. The man wearing a hat and holding up three fingers is General Mackenzie, who headed the
                    party. The other hatted individual is General Crook. The stars shown above them designate their rank
                    in the army.
            Individuals of some Plains tribes used picture-writing to record their hunting and war deeds which
                    entitled them to certain posts of honor. Such were a large number of the drawings on buffalo robes,
                    on the sides of tepees and even the decorations on clothing and horses. The Blackfoot, for example,
                    recorded such feats as taking weapons from the enemy, successful scouting expeditions, stealing
                    horses from an enemy camp, and saving the lives of their companions.20
            
            The famous Sioux chief, Sitting Bull, credited with 63 coups in 1870, made a pictographic record
                    around that time representing the feats which entitled him to special distinction. The original
                    drawings appear to be lost, but copies have been deposited in the Smithsonian Institution together
                    with two other pictographic "autobiographies" of the warrior. All three records
                    consist of sketches on paper and colored by water-color paints or red and blue pencils.21
            
            An Ojibwa deer hunt record on birch bark is given in Figure 4. The two lines below the figures
                    represent a river. Reading from right to left, the figures denote: the hunter's 
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., 269, 287–289.
                  
                     18 James Mooney, Calendar History of the Kiowa, in
                            U. S. Bureau of American Ethnology Annual Report, XVII (1898),
                            129–445.
                  
                     19 Mallery, Picture-writing of the Amercan Indians,
                            in U. S. Bureau of American Ethnology Annual Report, X, 553.
                  
                     20 Walter McClintock, Painted Tipic and Picture-writing
                                of the Blackfoot Indians, in Southwest Museum Leaflets (
                                Los Angeles
                            , 1935–), no. 6 (1936).
                  
                     21 M. W. Stirling, Three Pictographic Autobiographies of
                                Sitting Bull, in Smithsonian Institution Miscellaneous
                            Collections (1862–), vol. 97, no. 5 (1938).
               
                     lodges, situated on the river bank; a deer; a widening of the
                    river; two more deer; a canoe containing the hunter and a burning pine torch.22
                    (Apparently the hunt was made at night).
            Mallery reports instances of Abnaki store-keepers keeping books by means of pictographs.23 This was observed after the Abnakis had been in contact with white men for
                    considerable time, and they had already learned to use metallic specie. In one record of accounts, a
                    T-shaped character designated a balance scale, and was synonymous with pound. Cents were shown by
                    x's and dollars by x's. Transactions were represented by picturing the customers
                    according to their Indian names and the articles purchased or exchanged. This appears to be a case
                    of stimulus diffusion.
            Pictographic notices were necessarily public. They functioned to inform or warn any
                    beholder of departure, direction, visit, danger, and topographical features. In 1820, Schoolcraft
                    observed his Chippewa guides preparing a notice of visit and direction.24. They
                    erected a pole, leaning it in the direction the party was going. Then they fastened the birch bark
                    picture reproduced in Figure 5 to it. The row of eight soldiers with bayonets on one side and a fire
                    on the other side denote that the soldiers had slept apart from the rest. The row of figures
                    directly below represent the following: the commander with a drawn sword in his hand; the secretary,
                    a book in his hand; the geologist, hammer in hand; and his three attachés; and last, the
                    guides holding spears. All except the guides are shown wearing hats. The two fires at the bottom
                    signify that the officers and guides had separate messes. The prairie hen and tortoise indicate that
                    these had been killed and had formed part of the mess.
            A notice made by Micmac scouts while at war with the Malecite is given in Figure 6. It appeared on a
                    glazed tree surface to warn the rest of the tribe that some Malecite had been seen in canoes on the
                    lake going toward the outlet and 
                  
                     22 W. J. Hoffman, "Pictography and Shamanistic Rites of the
                            Ojibwa," American Anthropologist (Washington, 1888–),
                            I (1888), 209–229.
                  
                     23 Mallery, Picture-writing of the American Indians,
                            in U. S. Bureau of American Ethnology Annual Report, X, 259.
                  
                     24 Schoolcraft, Information respecting the History,
                                Condition and Prospects of the Indian Tribes of the United States, I,
                            336–337.
               
                     possibly down the river. Mallery states that the geographical
                    features are very accurate.25
            
            
               Missives are primitive notes of a social, religious, or diplomatic nature.
                    Schoolcraft encountered the birch bark communication reproduced in Figure 7, which is a peace
                    offering prepared by the Sioux and delivered to the Chippewa.26 The fort with
                    the flag and eagle over it denotes that the missive originated at the cantonment on the St.
                    Peter's River. Colonel Leavenworth, under whose authority the mission of peace had been
                    sent, is pictured below the fort with Chapoke, the leading Sioux chief. The figures on the right
                    represent other Sioux leaders favoring permanent peace.
            Figure 8 is a communication sent by an Ojibwa girl of the Bear totem to a man of the Mudpuppy totem
                    requesting him to call at her lodge.27 The writer has two companions who, like
                    herself, are Christians, as denoted by the three crosses. The lodges occupied by the girls are
                    located near a large lake and a road. There is a trail leading from the road to the lodges.
            One of several petitions sent by the Chippewa to the President of the United States and recorded by
                    Schoolcraft is shown in Figure 9.28 No. 1, the totem chief and head of the
                    party, belongs to the Crane totem. The lines connecting the eyes of the other totemic animals with
                    that of the chief's symbolizes union of views. Similarly, the lines connecting the hearts
                    signify unity of feeling and purpose. Nos. 2, 3, and 4 are warriors of the Marten totem. No. 5 is
                    from the Bear totem, and No, 6 from the Manfish totem. The line drawn forward from the
                    chief's eye denotes (according to Schoolcraft) the course of his journey. The long parallel
                    lines, No. 10, represent Lake Superior and the small parallel lines, No. 9, a path leading to some
                    central point on its southern shore.
            Probably the largest number of pictographs, particularly those produced on stone, bone, and shell,
                    are uninterpreted forms. Mallery commented toward the end of the 
                  
                     25 Mallery, Picture-writing of the Anterican
                            Indians, in U. S. Bureau of American Ethnology Annual Report, X, 341.
                  
                     26 Schoolcraft, Information respecting the History,
                                Condition and Prospects of the Indian Tribes of the United States, I, 338.
                  
                     27 Hoffman, "Pictography and Shamanistic Rites of the
                            Ojibwa," American Anthropoligist, I, 223–224.
                  
                     28 Schoolcraft, Information respecting the History,
                                Condition and Prospects of the Indian Tribes of the United States, I,
                            416–417.
               
                     last century that a thorough knowledge of the customs,
                    costumes, ornaments, tribal designations, histories, and religion of the American Indians might lead
                    to the interpretation of more pictographs than were then understood. Without such knowledge, the
                    only accurate interpretations had to be derived directly from the aboriginal pictographers
                    responsible for their existence.29 Today anything but conjectural
                    interpretations is virtually impossible. These pictographs may, however, serve one useful purpose at
                    least: to show the extent of diffusion of particular cultural traits. For example, Steward points to
                    the trophy heads in petroglyphs of the upper 
                        Colorado
                    
               30 as an indication that headhunting apparently reached as far as
                    northern 
                        Utah
                    .31
            
            As far as we know, the Indians north of Mexico never employed signs with phonetic value. Only the
                    Aztecs and Mayas of Middle America seem to have brought graphic symbols into direct connection with
                    the sounds of their languages. The consensus among the scholars who have been working in these
                    epigraphic fields is that both systems contain some phonetic elements. In one instance, these
                    writing systems have been designated "ikonomatic"32 and in
                    another "embryonic."33 Both cultures had paper made from the
                    bark of trees, the agave leaf, and the palm leaf.34
            
            Aztec writing, in its most advanced stage, was largely pictographic,35 recording
                    activities and events by drawing and coloring of representative persons and objects. However,
                    phonetic elements were employed in symbolizing the names of persons and places in the manner of a
                        rebus.36 Graphic representations of names were integrated by realistic 
                  
                     29 Mallery, Picture-writing of the American Indians,
                            in U. S. Bureau of American Ethnology Annual Report, X, 771.
                  
                     30 Steward, Petroglyphs of the United States, in
                            Smithsonian Institution Annual Report, 1936, plates 3, 5.
                  
                     31 Steward, "American Culture History in the Light of South
                            America," Southwestern Journal of Anthropology (Sante Fe, N. M.,
                            1945–). III (1947), 85–107.
                  
                     32 D. G. Brinton, Essays of an Americanist (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1890), 277.
                  
                     33 R. C. E. Long, "Maya and Mexican Writing," Maya Research (3 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1934–1936), II (1935), 24–32.
                  
                     34 V. W. Von Hagen, The Aztec and Maya Papermakers, (
                                New York
                            , 1943).
                  
                     35 Long, "Maya and Mexican Writing," Maya Research, 11, 24–32.
                  
                     36 A rebus is a phrase represented by pictures; the words equated to
                            them in a given language are entirely or nearly homophonous with the pictured
                        elements.
               
                     drawings of picturable objects representing one or more
                    phonetic syllables; that is, two or more signs could be combined to yield a name in terms of their
                    sound value only. There was no special disposition of the phonetic parts: they might be arranged so
                    as to be read from right to left or from left to right, from below upwards or from above downwards;
                    or one phonetic element might be placed within another.
            The place names Cuauhtitlan, Cuauhnahuac, Coatzinco, Xilotepec, and Tepeyacac (Figures 10–14) from Peñafiel37
                    demonstrate the use of phonetic signs. The first two names meaning ‘near (or in) the
                    forest’ are composed of the elements cuauh- (root of the word cuahuitl ‘tree, forest’) and the suffixes -tlan and -nahuac, both meaning ‘in, at, near.’ Both
                    pictures (Figures 10 and 11) show a tree; but -tlan is expressed as two rows of
                    teeth because of its phonetic similarity to tlantli, meaning
                    ‘tooth.’ And -nahuac is expressed as a mouth opening with a
                    little tongue in front of it, which is the usual sign for speech: nuahuatl
                    ‘distinct speech.’ Coat-zinco means ‘small
                    Coatlan’ and Coatlan itself means ‘place where there are
                    snakes.’ In accordance with this, the picture (Figure 12) contains a snake, but the
                    ending -tzinco ‘small’ is shown by the lower half of a
                    man's body almost in profile, for tzintli means ‘the lower
                    back part.’ Xilotepec signifies ‘place of the
                    maize’ and is represented correspondingly by a figure, which is the sign for mountain
                        (tepetl) and by two ears of maize (xilotl) with the large
                    tassels dependant (Figure 13). Tepeyacac means ‘on the mountain
                    summit.’ It is composed of the word tepetl
                    ‘mountain’ and yacatli ‘nose’ and is
                    accordingly expressed by the sign for mountain with a nose upon it (Figure 14). The endings -c and -co which occur in all but the first example are locative
                    suffixes and thus are not specifically referred to in the writing.
            The composition of geographical and personal names in the codices38 and fragments
                    follow definite patterns which are described in detail by Peñafiel39
                    and Orozco y Berra.40
            
            
               
                  37 Antonio Peñafiel, Nombres
                            Geográficos de México (Mexico, 1885).
               
                  38 Manuscripts in the original writing of the natives. A large collection
                        of these was published in Kingsborough, Antiquities of Mexico (9 vols., 
                            London
                        , 1831–1848).
               
                  39 Peñafiel, Nombres Geográficos de
                            México,, 19–36.
               
                  40 Manuel Orozco y Berra, Historia Antigua y de la Conquista
                            de México (4 vols., Mexico, 1880).
            
            
            Examples of a pictographic nature found in Aztec writing include footprints denoting travel or
                    movement, a shield and club for war, a bundled corpse for death, and a human figure with the ribs
                    showing prominently indicating famine.41
            
            Whorf contends that although no instances of a typical speech sentence have been found in extant
                    records of Aztec writing, the stock of conventionalized signs and the techniques of combination are
                    sufficient to allow the recording of extended texts in the 1anguage.42
            
            Pre-Conquest Aztec codices were mainly hieratic, containing mostly records of native religious
                    ceremonies, of tributes, and of historical events. Post-Conquest manuscripts dealt with history and
                    matters of the Roman Catholic religion.
            The Maya graphic system contains symbols which in every-day terms could be said to resemble esoteric
                    costume jewelry. There are square characters with rounded corners, oval-shaped characters, and
                    rhomboids, produced on stone, wood, stucco, bone, shell, metal, plaster, pottery, and fiber
                        paper.43 They were designated "calculiform" notations by
                    some of the early writers because of their likeness to pebbles cut in two.44 The
                    term hieroglyphic is appropriate in that the figures are sacred writings:45 this
                    together with a pictographic appearance they have in common with Egyptian hieroglyphics; the styles,
                    however, are entirely different.
            Inasmuch as the extant documents46 and inscriptions47 remain
                    largely uninterpreted, we have only the reports of the early missionaries with regard to the subject
                    matter set down by means of the Maya glyphs. According to one author, their histories, order of
                    sacrifices, and calendars were written in their "books."48 By
                    the testimony of another author, the 
                  
                     41 G. C. Vaillant, Aztecs of Mexico (
                                New York
                            , 1941), 207.
                  
                     42 B. L. Whorf, "Maya Writing and its Decipherment,"
                                Maya Research, 11, 367–382.
                  
                     43 S. G. Morley, An Introduction to the study of the Maya
                                Hieroglyphs, in U. S. Bureau of American Ethnology Bulletin
                            (1887–), LVII (1915), pp. 1–284.
                  
                     44 Brinton, Essays of an Americanist, 243.
                  
                     45 They were written and understood only by the native priests and a
                            few others.
                  
                     46 Codex Tro-Cortesianus, Codex Peresianus, and the Dresden Codex.
                  
                     47 The better known sites are at Copan, Palenque, Quirigua, Chichen
                            Itza, and Peten.
                  
                     48Alonso Ponce, Relación Breve y Verdadera de
                                Algunas Cosas de las Muchas que Sucedieron … en las
                                Provincias de la Nueva España (Madrid, 1588?).
               
                     Mayas wrote "their ancient matters and their
                        sciences."49 The students of Maya glyphs, since the appearance of
                    Bishop de Landa's alphabet50 in 1864, have generally been of the
                    opinion that the writing system contains both ideographic and phonetic characters.51 The extent of phoneticism has been argued variously. Forstemann, Schellhas, and Seler have
                    held that the glyphs are almost, if not completely, ideographic. The French scholars, Brasseur de
                    Bourbourg, de Rosny, and Charencey have worked on the assumption that they were predominantly
                    phonetic, and some of the early American investigators, such as Thomas, Cresson, and Le Plongeon,
                    have taken a similar stand.
            Landa's alphabet, published by the Abbe Brasseur, proved a disappointment. What appeared to
                    be a Maya Rosetta stone in the form of a complete phonetic alphabet, was no key to the script at
                    all. Charencey, Brasseur de Bourbourg, and de Rosny met with only negative results. Valentini
                    condemned the alphabet as a "Spanish fabrication." Brinton stated that the Landa
                    alphabet proved some degree of phoneticism and that the glyphs are probably ideographic and
                    phonetic, operating the same way as in Aztec writing. Bowditch also subscribed to this statement. Le
                    Plongeon, Thomas, and Cresson contended that by extending the alphabet beyond 27 characters, a key
                    had been found. Morley and Spinden cling to the assumption of the ideographic principle, but at the
                    same time, are hopeful with regard to the phonetic side.
            As Morley points out, all advances so far have been made mainly along chronologic-calendric lines.52 Through the efforts of Förstemann, Goodman, Maudslay, Thomas,
                    Bowditch, and many others, almost all the symbols dealing with numeration, astronomy, and
                    chronology, about one-third of the total, 
                  
                     49 Bishop Diego de Landa, Relación de las
                                Cosas de Yucat´n (
                                Paris
                            , 1864).
                  
                     50 Devised in 1565, by obtaining 27 written characters equated to
                            Spanish speech sounds from a native proficient in the graphic system.
                  
                     51 The material in this and the following paragraph, treating the
                            early attempts to decipher the Maa glyphs comes largely from Tozzer's introduction
                            to Whorf, The Phonetic Value of Certain Characters in Maya Writing, in
                            Peabody Museum Papers (1888–), vol. XIII no. 2 (1933). An
                            excellent bibliography is to be found at the end of his paper. References from this source
                            will not be repeated below.
                  
                     52 Morley, "Maya Epigraphy," in The
                                Maya and their Neighbors (
                                New York
                            , 1940), 139–149.
               
                     have been deciphered.53 The remaining
                    undeciphered glyphs still constitute a controversial issue: the question of phoneti-cism remains
                    open with divided opinions. And an additional question has arisen as to whether the glyphs are
                    simply a cluster of ideographic signs devoid of any grammatical relationships, or a graphic system
                    recording actual speech utterances.54 Among the recent investigators, Whorf
                    asserts that "the essential principle … lay in the use of a complicated
                    syllabary with numerous polyphones and homophones … and with certain approximations to
                    alphabeticism where the inherent vowel of the syllabic sign was not employed or was reinforced or
                    varied by the addition of another sign; ideographic signs were also much used, both to designate
                    words and as redundant explanatory signs …."55 Long56 and Beyer, on the other hand, hold the view that the glyphs are almost
                    entirely mnemonic signs, non-phonetic in character, constituting no linguistic constructions. An
                    intermediate position is taken by Gates and Willard, who contend that the undeciphered glyphs,
                    although mainly ideographic, form a writing system, both nouns and verbs indicated by it, comparable
                    to the Egyptian system. The evidences presented so far in either direction are far from conclusive
                    and can serve only as a basis for future work.
            
               
                  53 The signs without numerical coefficients also deciphered include the
                        symbols for earth, sky, the colors white, black, yellow, and red, the four directions, certain
                        foods, and religious ceremonies.
               
                  54 M. W. Jakeman, Th Origins and History of the Mayas (
                            Los Angeles
                        , 1945), 22.
               
                  55 Whorf, The Phonetic Value of Certain Characters in Maya
                            Writing, in Peabody Museum Papers, vol. XIII no. 2, p. 38.
               
                  56 Long, "Maya and Mexican Writing," Maya
                            Research, 11, 24–32.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana Iron from Native Ore
            Howard L. Balsley*
            
            Indiana's position as one of the leading iron and steel producing areas in the world is well
                    known. The state's growth in this respect dates from the establishment of the United States
                    Steel Corporation in Gary in 1907. Since that time the iron ore used in pig iron manufacture has
                    been brought from outside the state, chiefly from the Lake Superior district. This tendency toward
                    using out-of-state ores showed roughly forty years earlier when the pig iron production of the state
                    came partly from local ores. The early iron industry in Indiana, from 1833, when the first blast
                    furnace was erected, to the turn of the century, presents an interesting picture.
            It was believed by many in the early decades after the Civil War that Indiana would soon rival
                    Pennsylvania in iron manufacture.1 That feeling was largely due to the knowledge
                    that Indiana possessed deposits of iron ore. The reports of the state geologist and other scientists
                    that Indiana should rise to the forefront in iron production, however, were largely based upon
                    considerations of Indiana's location with respect to the Lake Superior and 
                        Missouri
                     ore fields, her possession of a large and unique coal deposit peculiarly adapted to
                    iron smelting, and her enormous limestone deposits.2 The expectation that the
                    state's iron production from local ores would make her the leader in this industry were, of
                    course, of the most extreme optimism. There is some evidence, however, that Indiana's
                    production of pig iron from local ores was once of great importance in supplying local markets and
                    for the production of both wrought iron and Bessemer steel rails.3
            
            
               
                  * Howard L. Balsley is an assistant professor of economics at
                        the University of 
                            Utah
                        , Salt Lake City, 
                            Utah
                        .
               
                  1 Logan Esarey, A History of Indiana (2 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1918). 11. 895.
               
                  2 See "Speeches of Dr. J. W. Foster, of 
                     Chicago, Ill.
                  , and Prof. E. T. Cox, State Geologist, before the 
                            Indianapolis
                         Board of Trade, February 17, 1872," published in the Thirteenth Annual Report of the Indiana State Board of Agriculture (
                            Indianapolis
                         Indiana, 1872), 409 if. See also Annual Report of the Geological
                            Survey of Indiana for the years from 1869 to 1875.
               
                  3 Charles W. Shannon, "The Iron Ore Deosits of Indiana,"
                        published in the Thirty-first Annual Report, Indiana Department of Geology and
                            Natural Resources (Indianzpolis, Indiana, 1907), 339. See also "Speeches of
                        Dr. J. W. Foster … in the Thirteenth Annual Report of the Indiana State
                            Board of Agriculture, 416–417; and Esarey, A History of
                        Indiana, II, 895.
            
            
            
               FIGURE 1
            
            
            The kind of iron which occurs most frequently in Indiana is limonite, but siderite is also found in
                    considerable deposits.4 Limonite in the form of bog ore was used to a great
                    extent in Indiana pig iron manufacture prior to the Civil War.
            These ores contain impurities of various kinds. Indiana ores contain a high percentage of silica,
                    some alumina and lime, from a trace to 1.03 per cent of phosphorus, from a trace to more than two
                    per cent of sulphur, and from a trace to nearly one per cent of rnanganese.5
                    Most of these impurities are detrimental. A high per cent of silica increases the quantity of lime
                    required for fluxing; sulphur tends to weaken the metal after reduction; small quantities of lime
                    are not detrimental, but large amounts must be removed by fluxing; phosphorus above one-tenth of one
                    per cent is harmful in the manufacture of Bessemer steel from pig iron containing it. Alumina,
                    however, may be recovered in the form of slag, which, when it contains enough, may be used to
                    manufacture 
                        Portland
                     Cement (as occurred in Indiana); and manganese is often valuable in iron for certain
                        purposes.6
            
            Figure 1 shows the counties having the chief ore deposits. It is to be noted that, while most of the
                    counties of Indiana 
                  
                            
                        4 Department of Conservation, Handbook of Indiana
                                    Geology (
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana, 1922), 757 ff, lists the few ores from which iron may be
                                extracted: Magnetite (Fe3O4) 72.24 per cent of
                                iron, Hematite (Fe202) 70 per cent of iron,
                                Limonite (2Fe2033H20) 59.89
                                er cent of iron, Siderite (FeCO3) 48.27 per cent of iron. They are
                                described as follows: "Magnetite is a black mineral, very hard and heavy, and
                                strongly magnetic. It occurs in veins, in lens-like masses and as grains in sands. Aside
                                from an occasional crystal of magnetite found in glacial boulders it does not occur in
                                Indiana except as sand grains.
                            
                        "Hematite. This is a red or steel gray mineral which has a red
                                streak, a slightly lower specific gravity than magnetite. It occurs in many forms and
                                colors. It may be in the form of a powder, granular, nodular, irregular or massive. Red
                                ocher is a mixture of hematite and clay. It occurs in small quantities in many places in
                                Mississippian and Pennsylvanian strata in Indiana.
                            
                        "Limonite. This ore of iron occurs in a number of forms, as
                                nodular, botryoidal, vesicular, stalactitic, massive or as powder in clay forming yellow
                                or brown ocher. Its color is variable, but usually black brown or yellow. Its specific
                                gravity is low, 3.8. It has a yellow streak which easily distinguishes it from hematite.
                                It also contains water of crystallization and is often associated with other iron ores
                                which are hydrous. This is the most abundant form of iron ore in Indiana. It occurs as
                                concretions in soils, which are poorly drained; as bog ore in swamps and marshes; as
                                lenses, irregular masses, nodules and distinct layers in the rock strata.
                            
                        "Siderite. This is a brown to gray colored ore. It occurs as
                                lenses, concretions or as massive or granular masses. Its principal form of occurrence
                                in Indiana is in nodular masses and lenses in shales and clays."
                        
                  
                     5
                     Ibid., 759.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid.
               
                     have some deposits of iron ore, only the chief ones are
                    indicated. All of the counties in the southwest corner of the state have traces of ore, which are
                    mainly within the coal-bearing strata; but some of them are not worth noting. The legend of Figure 1
                    explains the occurrence of the ore. The Mississip-pian is the earliest period in the Indiana
                    geological time scale in which iron ore is known to occur, and the Pennsylvanian is the next most
                    recent. Northern Indiana is assigned normally to the Devonian and partly to the Silurian and
                    Missis-sipian periods; the Devonian and Silurian are older geologically than the Mississippian. The
                    bog ores of the northern tier of counties, however, were formed after the Pleistocene (modern)
                    glaciation; therefore, the ores of this area are designated as Post-Pleistocene. It must further be
                    noted that these divisions of the ores are not precise; bog ores occur in most of the southern
                    counties indicated, and of course ores in the Pennsylvanian and Mississippian periods are not
                    confined exactly to the counties indicated. The divisions, however, are generally accurate enough to
                    be useful.
            In attempting an appraisal of the economic characteristics of the ores, one may examine the per cent
                    of iron yielded. The table below gives the information that is available.
            Per Cent of Metallic Iron Yielded from Ores, by Counties 
                  
                     
                                Post-Pleistocene
                                7
                            
                     
                                Pennsylvanian
                                8
                            
                     
                                Mississippian
                                9
                            
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     Estimated %
                     Tested Samples %
                     
                     Estimtaed %
                     Tested Samples %
                  
                  
                     No estimate or samples
                     
                                
                                    Warren
                                
                            
                     
                     37
                     Scott
                     
                     32
                  
                  
                     by counties exist.
                     
                                
                                    Vermillion
                                
                            
                     
                     25–45
                     Clark
                     
                     26–31
                  
                  
                     except for one estimate
                     Parke
                     
                     80–33
                     Floyd
                     28
                     
                  
                  
                     of one deposit in White
                     Vigo
                     33
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     County. 60%: and one
                     Sullivan
                     
                     26
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     estimate of another
                     
                                
                                    Greene
                                
                            
                     
                     38–54
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     deposit. 66%
                     
                                
                                    Monroe
                                
                            
                     
                     40
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Martin
                     37 average
                     25–55
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Lawrence
                     
                     55–66
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                                
                                    Orange
                                
                            
                     
                     35–50
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Crawford
                     30
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Perry
                     48
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
               
                    
                  
                     7
                            Third and Fourth Annual Reports of the Geological Survey of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1872), 320; Shannon, "The Iron Ore Deposits of
                            Indiana," Thirty-first Annual Report, Indiana Department of Geology
                                and Natural Resources, 354.
                  
                     8
                            Fifth Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1874), 131, 314; Shannon, "The Iron Ore Deposits of
                            Indiana," Thirty-first Annual Report, Indiana Department of Geology
                                and Natural Resources, 361, 362, 397, 421, 383, 370–372, 369; First Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1870, 167, 91, 137; Third and Fourth Annual Reports of
                                the Geological Survey of Indiana, 374, 91; Second Annual Report of the
                                Geological Survey of Indaana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1871), 104, 187;
               
                     It may be seen that all of the counties shown in Figure 1 do
                    not appear in the above table, mainly for two reasons: difficulty in locating data; and the fact
                    that some counties' ore deposits were never worked, and no estimates or sample tests made.
                    The information available gives a picture of the comparative yield of Indiana ores. The estimates
                    run from twenty-eight to sixty-five per cent, the samples tested from twenty-five to sixty-six per
                    cent. The figures for the Post-Pleistocene period are of little significance because of the
                    sparseness of material. The bog ores, however, do run much higher in yield than the others. It is
                    the smallness of individual bog deposits that limits their usefulness, and partly for this reason
                    one may discount them. The Mississippian data are insignificant because this ore has not been
                    worked. The Pennsylvanian is the formation which has been worked the most as well as that having the
                    greatest deposits of ore in the state.l0
                    
                        Martin County
                     ranks first in the state in ore deposits. Of the deposits which had been investigated
                    by 1906 (little, if anything, has been done since), the samples of which give a fair representation
                    in the above table, Shannon said, "The deposits described would yield a total of more than
                    six million tons of workable ore and the smaller deposits when worked out would probably increase
                    the tonnage about one-half. And the investigation of the yet unexplored area where the same
                    conditions exist would at least double the tonnage of the present field." The county
                    ranking second in the state is 
                        Greene
                    .11 An average of 
                        Martin County
                     would probably be about thirty-seven per cent, slightly lower than that of 
                        Greene County
                    . When one considers all the data in the table above, it is quite likely that he may
                    safely assume that the available ore yields from thirty-five to forty per cent.
            An interesting fact emerging from this table is the range of yields in the ore. It is evident that no
                    single large deposit of uniformly good ore exists. Those yielding thirty per cent 
                  
                     Sixth Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1875), 21; Seventh Annual Report of the Gological Survey
                                of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1876), 232.
                  
                     9
                            Fifth Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana, 105, 131, 162;
                                Sixth Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana, 12; Shannon,
                            The Iron Ore Deosits of Indiana," Thirty-first Annual Report, Indiana
                                Department of Geology and Natural Resources, 355.
                  
                     10
                            Handbook of Indiana Geology, 759, 761.
                  
                     11 Shannon, "The Iron Ore Deposits of Indiana," Thirty-first Annual Report, Indiana Department of Geology and Natural
                            Resources, 386, 421–422, 373.
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 2
               
                     differences are interspersed throughout 
                        Martin County
                    . Another notable consideration is the dispersal of the deposits. Although the largest
                    is in 
                        Martin County
                    , the upper tier of counties is a spotty mass of hundreds of small deposits of bog ore.
                    A third factor, not revealed by the table, is that this ore in the Pennsylvanian formation is not
                    usually available for strip mining since layers of clay, shale, limestone, etc., often occur with
                    the layers of coal and iron ore.
            In summary, the economic characteristics of Indiana iron ore are as follows: the yield of the
                    available ore is probably thirty-five to forty per cent, deposits vary widely in yield, they are
                    small and dispersed, and continuous strip mining is not feasible. When these characteristics are
                    contrasted with those of the Lake Superior region, it is quickly seen that here is sufficient reason
                    why iron ore extraction was abandoned in Indiana. Mesabi (
                        Minnesota
                    ) ores run from fifty to seventy-two per cent yield and average about sixty-three per
                    cent. The deposit is up to three hundred feet deep, roughly one hundred miles long, of highly
                    uniform yield, at least for a large easily-worked area, and continuous strip mining is possible.12 Machinery need never be removed from one deposit until it is to be replaced.
                    The five or six other great fields of the Lake Superior region have similar characteristics.
            Yet, not only before the exploitation of the Lake Superior region (roughly the 1850's), but
                    after its fame had become widespread, Indiana iron ore was used to some extent, in declining
                    amounts, to be sure, until about the 1890's. For the economic factors determining such use
                    one must look to the history of pig iron manufacturing in Indiana during this period because the
                    demand for iron ore is derived from the demand for pig iron, which is basic to iron and steel
                    manufacture.
            Figure 2 shows the locations of We principal iron smelting plants from 1833 to 1895. In northern
                    Indiana were several iron plants using bog ore other than the ones indicated, chiefly Catalan
                        Forges.13 There were several kinds of iron 
                  
                     12
                     Ibid., 323; Hugh Hartmann, "Spieeleisen
                            Manufacturing," in the Fifth Annual Report of the Geological Survey of
                                Indiana, 95.
                  
                     13
                            Sixth Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana, 47; Esarey, A History of Indiana, II, 896; Shannon, "The Iron Ore Deposits of
                            Indiana," Thirty-first Annual Report, Indiana Department of Geology
                                and Natural Resources, 352. The Catalan (variously spelled Catlin, Catalin) Forge,
                            so-called from its first wide use in
               
                     works throughout Indiana, but one is concerned here with only
                    the chief smelters, of which some records exist. Figure 2 also lists the principal smelters
                    according to date established. A brief historical sketch of each follows.
            The 
                        St. Joseph
                     blast furnace was built in 1833 in 
                        St. Joseph County
                     on the present site of 
                        Mishawaka
                    . Its founder was Alanson M. Hurd, who gave the enterprise the name of St. Joseph Iron
                    Works by state charter.14 Bog ore and charcoal were used in the furnace. The
                    iron was cast into kettles of various kinds and other crude forms for the pioneer settlers. At a
                    later date stoves were made. With the coming of the Lake Shore and 
                        Michigan
                     Southern Railroad, the iron was diverted to railroad products, and high prosperity
                    ensued. Smelting was discontinued in 1856, probably due to the exhaustion of ore deposits in the
                    locality, possibly to high fuel costs, and perhaps because the railroad brought cheap bar iron from
                    the east, 
                        Cleveland
                     and 
                        Pittsburgh
                    .
            The Old 
                        Virginia
                     blast furnace went into operation about 1839 in 
                        Monroe County
                     south of 
                        Stanford
                     on Indian Creek. Its product was probably used locally. Logan Esarey mentions its sole
                    use as local, much of it going to the Seward forges in 
                        Bloomington
                    , but E. T. Cox states that the nearest 
                  Catalonia, Spain, was an open kettle-like furnace containing charcoal and iron ore the
                            heat of which was increased by a continuous blast entering near the bottom of the
                            "kettle," produced by the fall of water through a few feet of closed shaft
                            into a closed container, the water escaping by a pipe. The melted iron, containing much slag
                            and a high content of impurity, as well as comparatively little carbon, was caught in the
                            bottom of the "kettle." The blast furnace was (and still remains basically
                            the same) by way of contrast, a closed tower into which was charged continuously from the
                            top the "make" of coke or coal, iron ore and limestone. The blast was
                            produced by mechanical blowers of much greater capacity than the Catalan water method,
                            entering through tuyeres near the bottom of the tower. The ore was exposed longer to higher
                            temperatures, absorbing more carbon from the fuel but separating more efficiently the slag
                            and impurities. The pig iron of the blast furnace was drawn out from the hearth below the
                            "boshes" which was the lowest oint of the tower to which the
                            "make" gradually descended as it fused. Pig iron was brittle, with a high
                            carbon content. The product of the Catalan Forge, produced at higher cost because of fuel
                            waste due to the moisture content of the blast and the inefficient open furnace and also
                            because of lack of as complete reduction of the ore as was possible in the blast furnace,
                            was soft compared to pig iron, containing less carbon. This iron was often forged directly
                            into bar iron for such products as wagon axles, etc., hence Catalan
                            "Forge."
                  
                     14
                     Fifth Annual Report of the Geological Survey of
                            Indiana, 459–460; Shannon, "The Iron Ore Deposits of
                            Indiana," Thirty-first Annual Report, Indiana Department of Geology
                                and Natural Resources, 351; Esarey, A History of Indiana, II,
                            895; Laws of the State of Indiana, Local, 1834 (1835),
                        79–82.
               
                     market for the iron was 
                        Louisville
                    , and that the furnace went out of business after a few years due to the expense of
                    hauling the iron to this distant market. Average production was about one and one-half tons per day,
                    maximum production approximately three tons. The price at 
                        Louisville
                     was about twenty dollars per ton. The operator, Randall Ross of 
                        Virginia
                    , evidently owned some deposits of iron ore in 
                        Monroe County
                    , but some of the ore was hauled in by neighborhood farmers, much of it coming from 
                        Greene County
                    , near 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Indiana. Charcoal was made at the furnace, and limestone was secured nearby for
                        flux.15
            
            The Old Indiana blast furnace was located on Brouillet's Creek near Sandford in 
                        Vermillion County
                    . It was probably set up in 1840 and continued in operation until 1859 or 1860. Esarey
                    states that it was still in operation when Leo Lesquereux visited there in 1860.16 The furnace used charcoal for fuel and ore from 
                        Vermillion
                     and 
                        Vigo counties
                    . Its daily production was nine to ten tons, obtained from thirty to forty tons of ore,
                    which was purchased for about one dollar and fifty cents per ton delivered at the furnace.
                    Approximately seventy-five men were employed. The furnace used the hot blast method, preheating the
                    air with waste gases resulting from the combustion process. The iron was shipped on the 
                        Terre Haute
                     railroad at Sandford seven miles away. Such a transportation difficulty as well as the
                    growing scarcity of timber for charcoal was probably the factor which accounted for the shutdown of
                    the furnace.
            The Richland blast furnace was built in 1841 near Bloom-field in 
                        Greene County
                     by Andrew Downey. It used local ore and charcoal. The furnace also employed the hot
                    blast method and had a capacity of about ten tons per day. Part of the iron produced was used
                    locally for kettles, stoves, etc., but much of it was shipped to 
                        Louisville
                     and sold there for about twenty-six dollars per ton, of which as much as twenty dollars
                    was for transportation. The transportation factor was undoubtedly 
                  
                     15
                            First Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana, 90–91,
                            137; Shannon, "The Iron Ore Deposits of Indiana," Thirty-first Annual Report, Indiana Department of Geology and Natural Resources,
                            363–365, 374–375; Esarey, A History of Indiana, 11,
                            898.
                  
                     16
                            First Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana,
                            134–135, 167; Seventh Annual Report of the Geological Survey of
                                Indiana, 114; Shannon, "The Iron Ore Deposits of Indiana," Thirty-first Annual Report, Indiana Department of Geology and Natural
                            Resources, 358; Esarey, A History of Indiana, II, 896; Report of a Geological Reconnoissance of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1862), 169.
               
                     the reason for the "blowing-out" of the
                    furnace about 1858.17
            
            A Catalan Forge was erected on the Elkhart River in the northwest corner of 
                        Noble County
                     in 1845. Local bog ore and charcoal were used. The forge employed about sixty men
                    digging and hauling ore, making charcoal, and operating the forge. The company did not own its ore
                    deposits. About ten tons of bar iron were produced per week, which sold at one hundred dollars per
                    ton. The firm went out of business in the early 1850's probably due to the advent of the
                    Lake Shore and 
                        Michigan
                     Southern Railroad which brought cheaper bar iron from the east.18
            
            Another Catalan Forge was built at Lima in 
                        Lagrange County
                     about 1850. It used local bog ore and charcoal and produced bar iron for local use.19 Because the Lake Shore and 
                        Michigan
                     Southern Railroad brought cheaper bar iron from the east, it operated for only a few
                    years.
            A third Catalan Forge was built about four miles from 
                        Logansport
                     in 
                        Cass County
                     about 1856. It used bog ore from 
                        White County
                    , which had to be hauled by wagon. This factor accounted for the failure of the
                    enterprise, which lasted only about a year and a half.20 The iron was forged
                    into blooms direct from smelting.21 Its maximum production was about one hundred
                    tons of iron per month.
            The Brazil blast furnace was "blowed in" at Brazil in 
                        Clay County
                     in 1867. This furnace introduced the use of "block" coal in blast
                    furnaces in Indiana, which was charged 
                  
                     17
                            First Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana, 91, 93, 107, 137;
                            Shannon, "The Iron Ore Deposits of Indiana," Thirty-first
                                Annual Report, Indiana Department of Geology and Natural Resources, 374; sarey, A History of Indiana, 11, 898.
                  
                     18
                            Fifth Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana,
                            449–450; Shannon, "The Iron Ore Deposits of Indiana," Thirty-first Annual Report, Indiana Department of Geology and Natural
                            Resources, 352.
                  
                     19
                            Fifth Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana, 446; Shannon,
                            "The Iron Ore Deposits of Indiana Thirty-first Annual Report, Indiana
                                Department of Geology and Natural Resources, 352–353; Esarey, A History of Indiana, 11, 896.
                  
                     20
                            Third and Fourth Annual Reports of the Geological Survey of Indiana,
                            311–320; Esarey, A History of Indiana, 11, 895–896.
                  
                     21 Smelting is here used in the broader sense of being the reduction
                            of iron ore into useful form. Cox mentions the bog ore being "baked without smeltin
                            at the Logansort forge," implying that smelting is a process belonging exclusively
                            to the nearly complete reduction of the ore in the blast furnace. See Third and
                                Fourth Annual Reports of the Geological Survey of Indiana, 304.
               
                     directly into the furnace without previous coking.22 It also introduced the regular use of Lake Superior ores and those from
                        Iron Mountain, 
                        Missouri
                    , the two usually being mixed. Local ore is "more expensive in proportion to
                    the quantity of iron it contains than the ore from either of the former localities."23 This furnace was of the most improved type and the largest size of the
                        period.24 It consumed seventy tons of block coal, forty-five tons of ore,
                    sixteen tons of limestone daily, and yielded twenty-eight tons of pig iron. The furnace employed one
                    hundred and fifty workers including coal miners and those who marketed the product for the firm of
                    Messrs. Garlick and Collins. Coal was also mined for sale since the company owned the beds. The iron
                    produced was evidently sold in the general pig iron market, because during a period of idleness for
                    the furnace, "the iron market became dull and the price of pig iron declined as a result of
                    reduction in tariff."25 The furnace changed hands in 1822 when it was
                    purchased by the Central Iron and Steel Company for about twenty thousand dollars (its original cost
                    of construction had been one hundred and fifty thousand dollars; total capital costs for real
                    estate, railroad spurs, etc., were two hundred 
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., 9–10; First Annual Report of the Geological
                                Survey of Indiana, 72–77; Shannon, "The Iron Ore Deposits of
                            Indiana," Thirty-first Annual Report, Indiana Department of Geology
                                and Natural Resources, 365–367; Esarey, A History of
                                Indiana, II, 897; DeWitt C. Goodrich and Charles R. Tuttle, An
                                Illustrated History of the State of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                             Indiana, 1875), 311–312. In the Fifth Annual Report of
                                the Geological Survey of Indiana, 113, Cox stated that "Indiana block coal
                            is of itself very strong and able to bear up as much burden as coke, but it is, by the heat
                            in the upper part of the furnace, converted into a dense coke before it meets the blast
                            where it enters into perfect combustion. That my readers may comprehend the important part
                            performed by the blast, I will state that more than five tons of air are required for every
                            ton of pig iron smelted. From the fact that the raw coal is changed to coke before it is
                            burned, the effect produced by the two fuels, coke and raw coal, are the same in the zone of
                            fusion, and it is only in the upper part of the furnace that we must look for dissimilar
                            effects. Here the raw coal is gradually heated and the hydrogen and hydrocarbons, which form
                            about forty parts of its substance, are distilled off and the gaseous contents of the shaft
                            are, consequently, about thirty-seven per cent greater than when coke is the fuel; it
                            follows therefore that if the size of the throat and gas flues are properly adjusted for
                            coke, they must be made, at least, one third larger for raw coal. If this point is not
                            attended to the furnace must lose heat, through want of perfect combustion, run irregular,
                            and consume vastly more fuel per ton of pig iron made."
                  
                     23
                            First Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana, 74.
                  
                     24 See ibid., 72–77 for a complete
                            description of the furnace.
                  
                     25 Shannon, "The Iron Ore Deposits of Indiana," Thirty-first Annual Report, Indiana Department of Geology and Natural
                            Resources, 366.
               
                     and fifty thousand dollars). Its pig iron was considered
                    "especially suited for the manufacture of Bessemer steel."26
                    It is not known just when this furnace went out of blast, but it was sometime between 1882 and 1895.
            The Planet blast furnace, built in 1867, was located one mile northeast of Harmony in 
                        Clay County
                     on a switch of the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroad.27 It was owned by the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Rolling Mill Company. The furnace daily consumed about twenty-five tons of ore, forty
                    tons of block coal, ten tons of limestone, and yielded about fifteen tons of pig iron. The ore was
                    secured locally, and from fifty to sixty teams were used to haul the ore from the nearby deposits,
                    which were owned by the company. The company also mined its own coal deposits. Most of the iron was
                    made into rails (Bessemer steel) at the company's rolling mill in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            The Knightsville "double" blast furnaces were built by the Western Iron Company two
                    and a half miles east of Brazil in 
                        Clay County
                     on the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroad. One went into blast in 1867, the other in 1868. Both furnaces were operated
                    with the same machinery. The two units required sixty tons of Lake Superior and Iron
                        Mountain ore, one hundred tons of block coal, twenty-four tons of limestone daily,
                    and yielded forty-five tons of pig iron. The company owned its coal mines as well as a mill for
                    making "muck-bars," which was operated in connection with the furnaces.
                    "The running of this mill is governed somewhat by the relative market value of the pig-ron
                        [sic] and the muck-bars."28
            
            The 
                        Lafayette
                     blast furnace was located on a branch of South Otter Creek one and a half miles north
                    of Brazil in 
                        Clay County
                    . It was "blowed-in" on May 20, 1869. The furnace needed thirty-seven
                    and one-half tons of ore, forty-five tons of block coal, ten tons of limestone daily, and yielded
                    eighteen tons of pig iron. It employed thirty men at the furnace. Cox stated that "The ore
                    used is from 
                        Missouri
                     and 
                  
                     26
                            Third and Fourth Annual Reports of the Geological Survey of Indiana, 9.
                  
                     27
                            First Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana, 79–80;
                            Shannon, "The Iron Ore Deposits of Indiana" Thirty-first
                                Annual Report, Indiana Department of Geology and Natural Resources,
                            365–367; Esarey, A History of Indiana, II, 898; Goodrich and
                            Tuttle, An Illustrated History of the State of Indiana, 311.
                  
                     28
                            First Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana, 78–79;
                            Shannon, "The Iron Ore Deposits of Indiana Thirty-first Annual Report,
                                Indiana Department of Geology and Natural Resources, 365–367; Esarey,
                                A History of Indiana, II, 898.
               
                     Lake Superior, and the fuel was obtained from the Otter Creek
                    Coal Co.'s shaft, only a few rods from the furnace; in fact, the excavation that was made
                    for the foundation of the furnace cut through the coal bed." Yet in another part of his
                    report, he spoke of the "daily consumption of fuel, ‘Block’ coal,
                    from the company's [Lafayette Iron Company, owner of the furnace] mines." Shannon
                    stated that the furnace used chiefly native ore.29
            
            These five blast furnaces in 
                        Clay County
                    , clustered around Brazil, all burned raw block coal for fuel. They used chiefly Lake
                    Superior and Iron Mountain (
                        Missouri
                    ) ore, although local Indiana ore was also used to a limited extent. The five furnaces
                    consumed daily about one hundred and fifty tons of iron ore, three hundred tons of block coal, and
                    fifty tons of limestone. The daily production of pig iron was about one hundred and ten tons.
                    Approximately two hundred men were employed at the furnaces, and a great many more in the coal mines
                    that the companies owned. All of these furnaces went out of production before 1835.
            The Shoals blast furnace was put in operation about 1870 on the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     Railroad near Shoals in 
                        Martin County
                    . It used local ore from 
                        Lawrence County
                     as well as 
                        Martin County
                     and ore shipped in from Iron Mountain. There is some doubt whether
                    raw coal was used for fuel or if coke was made before charging the furnace. The company owned its
                    local ore deposit in 
                        Martin County
                     as well as coal mines and employed several hundred men altogether. This furnace was in
                    operation for only a few years. High freight rates of the railroad made cost retrenchment necessary,
                    The superintendent of the furnace was replaced with an inexperienced man at much lower pay, who
                    allowed the furnace to chill and blow up, which destroyed the entire plant. It is to be noted that 
                        Martin County
                     ores were shipped three hundred miles to Jackson, 
                        Ohio
                    , for use in making ferro silicon.30
            
            
               
                  29
                        First Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana, 77–78; Second Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana, 163; Shannon,
                        "The Iron Ore Deposits of Indiana," Thirty-first Annual Report,
                            Indiana Department of Geology and Natural Resources, 365–367; Esarey, A History of Indiana, II, 897–898.
               
                  30
                        Third and Fourth Annual Reports of the Geological Survey of Indiana,
                        10–11; Seventh Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana,
                        232; Shannon, "The Iron Ore Deposits of Indiana," Thirty-first
                            Annual Report, Indiana Department of Geology and Natural Resources, 370,
                        390–392, 427; Esarey, A History of Indiana, II,
                    898–899.
            
            
            The Vigo blast furnace was built at 
                        Terre Haute
                     in 
                        Vigo County
                     by the Vigo Iron Company and went into blast in 1870. The furnace used local ore from 
                        Vigo County
                     to some extent which was mixed with 
                        Missouri
                     ore. Raw block coal was the fuel used. The daily production of pig iron was twenty-four
                    tons. This was the last of the old furnaces in Indiana to go out of blast about 1895. Other iron
                    companies existed throughout the period in 
                        Terre Haute
                     since the city was growing in importance as an industrial center.31
            
            Indiana pig iron manufacture can be placed historically in three rather well-defined periods: (1)
                    before the Civil War, or 1833–1860; (2) from the Civil War to the turn of the century, or
                    1867–1895; and (3) since the turn of the century, or 1907 to the present time. Because
                    Indiana iron ore extraction occurred in the first two periods, the significant facts of them may now
                    be considered.
            From 1833 to 1860, one finds in every case but one the location of the blast furnace or Catalan Forge
                    at the source of the ore. In each of these cases, the ore deposits seemed to be the principal factor
                    which drew the enterprise into existence. It should be emphasized, however, that the fuel supply,
                    timber from which the charcoal was made, existed in each of the locations. The reduction of timber
                    conveniently available has been given as partial cause of discontinuing operations. The widespread
                    limestone deposits of Indiana insured a local supply of flux for the furnaces. One can readily see,
                    therefore, the importance of the raw materials in the immediate vicinity in which each smelter was
                    located. The influence of the market was also important, but evidently of less importance for
                    location purposes than the availability of raw materials. Most of the iron, particularly that of the
                    forges, was sold locally, but some of it was shipped to distant markets. The pig iron of the Old 
                        Virginia
                     furnace in 
                        Monroe County
                     went either to 
                        Bloomington
                    , twelve miles away, or to 
                        Louisville
                    , at least one hundred miles away. The iron of the Old Indiana furnace in 
                        Vermillion County
                     went to 
                        Terre Haute
                    , about fifteen miles, and some iron of the Richland furnace in 
                        Greene County
                     went to 
                        Bloomfield
                    , only a short distance. 
                  
                     31
                            Second Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana, 7, 137; Fifth Annual Report of the Geological Survey, of Indiana, 94; Seventh Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana, 114; Shannon
                            "The Iron Ore Deposits of Indiana," Thirty-first Annual
                                Report, Indiana Department of Geology and Natural Resources, 357; Esarey, A History of Indiana, 896.
               
                     Transportation was both by wagon and train. The distance and
                    difficulty in marketing, however, is given as the reason for several of the firms going out of
                    business—the Old 
                        Virginia
                     furnace, the Old Indiana furnace, and the Rich-land furnace. The long haul of ore for
                    the Catalan Forge near 
                        Logansport
                     from 
                        White County
                     (the only case of location away from the ore deposits) is cited as the reason for the
                    discontinuance of its operations.
            In the second period, 1867 to 1895, the location of raw materials again seems the chief consideration
                    in the location of the furnaces. The ore deposits, however, yield in importance to block coal.
                    Undoubtedly, the concentration of five furnaces around Brazil in 
                        Clay County
                     was due to the deposits of block coal there. The greater part of the ore was now coming
                    from the Lake Superior district, some from Iron Mountain, 
                        Missouri
                    , and some locally. Only the Shoals furnace in 
                        Martin County
                     used local ore exclusively. Near-by deposits of limestone, however, were available for
                    all the furnaces. The market was not as important a locating factor since the iron of the Planet
                    furnace in 
                        Clay County
                     was shipped to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , approximately seventy miles away. Most of the product of the 
                        Clay County
                     firms must have gone to 
                        Indianapolis
                     or to 
                        Terre Haute
                    , thirteen or fourteen miles distant. The market in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , however, was probably the chief locating factor in the establishment of the Vigo
                    furnace. Transportation was largely by rail, although short wagon hauls were necessary in some cases
                    to reach railheads.
            While the market factor was not the principal one in the location of individual furnaces, one can
                    discern a broad principle here. The product of the Indiana smelters was used to a large extent in
                    Indiana. The limit of shipment to market seems to have been about one hundred miles. Rolling mills
                    at 
                  Indianapolis, Terre
                        Haute, Greencastle
               , and 
                        New Albany
                     obtained much or all of their pig iron from Indiana smelters. Wrought iron and Bessemer
                    steel rails for the expanding railroads of the time were manufactured in addition to stoves,
                    kettles, and a multitude of other products.
            When the localizing factors of these two early periods are contrasted with those of the period after
                    1907, at the time "big steel" arrived in Indiana, one notes a change in the role
                    of the market. The location in the Calumet region, while scientifically calculated to be a point of
                    low cost for assembling raw materials—Lake Superior ore, Indiana 
                    
                        Illinois
                    , and Pennsylvania coal; and Indiana limestone—also indicates the growing
                    importance of the market. As the percentage of pig iron going into steel declined because it was
                    replaced by scrap, the market factor became more important. That scrap is an important aspect of the
                    market for steel products is seen most clearly in the growing steel industry in 
                        Detroit
                    .
            Evidences of integration exist in the two early periods. Most of the companies owned their coal
                    mines, and those using local ore as a rule owned their deposits of ore. Some of the firms made
                    finished iron goods. This reached a high state of development with the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Rolling Mill Company, which owned and operated a rolling mill, blast furnace, coal
                    fields, and ore deposits. That company is a good example of early vertical integration.
            The length of life of the Indiana smelters in both early periods was impressive. The first one, built
                    in 1833, ran until 1856, a period of twenty-three years. The five in 
                        Clay County
                     must have operated nearly this long and perhaps longer. The Vigo furnace ran for
                    twenty-five years. When one reflects that the average length of life of the business enterprise in
                    the United States by modern standards is about five and one-half years,32 the
                    Indiana blast furnaces, regardless of differences in the development of the economy, were highly
                    successful, gauged by length of operation.
            The tremendous influence of transportation must again be noted. Railroads furnished an important part
                    of the market for iron and steel products derived from Indiana pig iron. Moreover, as markets
                    expanded because of more efficient transportation facilities, competition became keener, and some
                    enterprises expired due to the arrival of 
                        Cleveland
                     and 
                        Pittsburgh
                     iron on the Indiana markets. Of course, in the third period in Indiana iron development
                    these eastern ironworks could stay in the Indiana market only through the peculiar pricing system
                    used by the steel industry.
            
               
                  32 E. B. Alderfer and H. E. Michl, Economics of American
                            Industry (
                            New York
                        , 1942), 1.
            
         
         
         
            Lathrop M. Taylor, The Fur Trader
            Bert Anson*
            
            Colonel Lathrop M. Taylor sold his general store, which he had operated at 
                        South Bend
                     since 1836 in October, 1847, but continued in business as a fur trader. He occasionally
                    accepted products for barter and accumulated large stores of furs for spring shipment. It is not
                    known where he conducted his business at this time, but it was probably in his own home or in a
                    portion of his former store. Information on this period is limited because the pages of the Sales
                    Book for 1847, 1848, and part of 1849 were removed, and there were few entries after 1855.
                    Taylor's ability to maintain the store through the panic of 1837 was due partly to help
                    received from William Brewster of 
                        Detroit
                     who extended advances on expected fur shipments. Brewster became bankrupt in 1848 and
                    the litigation was settled in 1880. Taylor lost $779.13 in the business failure.1 This may have been due to a loan but was probably due to Brewster's
                    failure to pay for a shipment of furs.
            Several fur shipments were made in the spring of 1849 which totaled $2,283.62. The
                    shipment sent to Chauteau and Skelton of 
                        New York
                     was sold under contract of a ten per cent increase in the price paid to Taylor.2 Such arrangements were occasionally made for furs which were prime or to give
                    the seller the advantage of price increases.
            Gradually Taylor's dependence upon the Indians for his fur trade lessened because their
                    lands came into the possession of the whites. The treaty of Council Bluffs in 1846 was the last
                    general agreement made to acquire the remaining Potawatomi lands in Indiana.3
                    Taylor's Indian Ledger of 1840–1856 indexed one hundred and sixty-five Indian
                    accounts carried but practically all were settled by 1850 or placed in 
                  
                     * Bert Anson is an instructor at James Whitcomb Riley High
                            School, 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana. This is the concluding article of a series of four published since
                            December, 1948. It is the revision of a master's thesis in the department of
                            History at Indiana University, 1947, under the direction of John D. Barnhart.
                  
                     1 Taylor, Suspended Ledger, 1858, p. 143.
                  
                     2 Taylor, Sales Book, 144–146.
                  
                     3 Charles J. Kappler (ed.), Indian Affairs, Laws, and
                                Treaties, in Senate Documents, 57 Cong., 1 Sess., No. 452 (2
                            vols., serial nos. 4253 and 4254), II, 413, 415.
               
                     the Suspended Ledger. Although the last Indian removal had
                    taken place in 1851 when Alexes Coquillard had taken a band west, there were still Indians in 
                        St. Joseph County
                     and surrounding area in Indiana and 
                        Michigan
                     after that date.4 It was reported that thirteen Indians living on
                    the Grapevine road voted in 1882. Taylor probably contacted a part of the scattered individual
                    Indians, though he did not record the sending of outfits to them. The bulk of his furs undoubtedly
                    came from the white settlers at this time.
            Thaddeus S. Taylor stated in an unpublished biography of his father that the total volume of business
                    remained large and the latter did a total fur business of eighteen thousand dollars in
                        1851–1852.5 The data supplied by the Fur Ledger, however, does
                    not correspond to the statement in the biography for that one year. An analysis of the items is
                    given in the following table:
            
               Furs Sold—Fur Ledger, 1851–6
               
                  Year
                  Number Skins
                  Price
                  Number Skins
                  Price
                  Number Skins
                  Price
                  Number Skins
                  Price
               
               
                  
                  OTTER
                  MUSKRAT
                  COON
                  DEER
               
               
                  1851
                  41
                  117.40
                  21,769
                  2,149.63
                  3,749
                  2,816.88
                  6,868
                  1,374.28
               
               
                  1852
                  
                  
                  93,239
                  1,089.21
                  6,239
                  2,821.49
                  3,364
                  2,211.28
               
               
                  1856
                  
                  
                  10
                  .90
                  30
                  7,88
                  19
                  18.20
               
               
                  
                  MINK
                  
                  
                  
                  VALUE
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  1851
                  2892
                  1,986.47
                  
                  1851
                  Miscellaneous
                  
                  $ 122.98
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  Above
                  
                  8,442.66
                  
               
               
                  1852
                  3349
                  2,061.98
                  
                  
                  Total
                  
                  $ 8.666.64
                  
               
               
                  1856
                  21
                  27.60
                  
                  1852
                  Miscellaneous
                  
                  $ 148.60
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  Above
                  
                  14,174.91
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  Total
                  
                  $14, 23.61
                  
               
            
            The last large fur shipments were made in the spring of 1853. These are given in detail, except
                    prices which were not included.6
            
            
               
                  4 "Report of the Second Auditor of the Treasury," in Senate Documents, 33 Cong., 1 Sess., No. 25 (serial no. 695), 24. Grant
                        Foreman, The Last Trek of the Indians (
                            Chicago
                        , 1946), gives a fine account of the Indian removals with the emphasis on 1838.
                        Similarly, Dwight L. Smith (ed.), "A Continuation of the Journal of an Emigrating Party
                        of Potawatomi Indians, 1838, and Ten William Polke Manuscripts," in the Indiana Magazine of History (
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana, 1905–), XLIV (1948), 393–408, is a good treatment
                        of the subject.
               
                  5 Thaddeus S. Taylor, Biography of L. M. Taylor (Typewritten MS in 
                            South Bend
                         Museum).
               
                  6 Taylor, Fur Ledger, 160–165.
            
            
            Chateau and Company, 
                        New York
                    
            
            
               8 packs of skins
               2 boxes of skins
               13 boxes of skins 2544 were mink
               14 bales of skins
               2450 other skins
            
            J. McNabb, 
                        New York
                    
            
            
               23 packs (1490 deer skins)
               3 packs deer skins
               150 deer skins
               23 packs small furs
            
            This list is probably complete. Single shipments were made in March and April and three in May. A
                    comparison of the number of deer and mink show that there were fewer sold in 1853 than in either
                    1851 or 1852. A study of the price averages discloses Taylor received ten cents each for muskrat
                    skins in 1851 and less than eight cents each in 1852. Raccoon prices declined from about
                    seventy-five cents to fifty cents. Deer were about twenty cents in 1851 and increased to about
                    seventy cents in 1852, although the former price seems questionable. Mink were fairly stable at
                    about seventy cents. Otter were the rarest and most valuable skins taken. They usually sold for five
                    to six dollars apiece.
            Colonel Taylor's volume of business declined rapidly after 1853. He sold furs worth
                    $739.54 in 1854, $1,069.64 in 1855, and a negligible amount in 1856.7 He also sold minor quantities of supplies, clothing, and groceries, and bought
                    cranberries, rags, and groceries.
            Taylor ended all records but his Suspended Ledger by 1856 when he was fifty-one years old. He
                    expressed the belief that no one should continue in active work after the age of sixty and practiced
                    his philosophy with some years to spare.8 A record of gifts and donations was
                    kept in the Suspended Ledger, which included some interesting sidelights, until June 1, 1892. Most
                    of the gifts and donations were small —ten cents or a quarter were common. Even each
                    article of clothing given away was valued for the record. The total reached by June 1, 1892, was
                    $10,810.41, a very considerable sum, much of which was given to the Indians.9 As early as 1860 his brother Horace's account was written off as a
                    loss of $2,633.11, and by 1869 another brother, Pitts, had received $5,242.19
                    which was never repaid.10 Although Pitts became 
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 165–171.
                  
                     8 Goodspeed Brothers (pub.), Pictorial and Biographical
                                Memoirs of 
                                    Elkhart
                                 and 
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Counties (
                                Chicago
                            , 1893), 776.
                  
                     9 Taylor, Suspended Ledger, 1858, pp. 141–144,
                            443–444.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., 86, 141–144.
               
                     active in political and community affairs when Lathrop
                    withdrew, his business ventures were usually unsuccessful.
            A separate feature was the unpaid notes which were largely uncollectible even by legal procedure.
                    There was a list of these inserted in the ledger in 1871 which showed a total of
                    $4,102.24 due, many outstanding for a number of years and never collected.11
            
            At the same time that Colonel Taylor was active in the fur trade he continued to maintain an interest
                    in the political affairs of 
                        South Bend
                    . Although his civic leadership was much less important than in the period when 
                        South Bend
                     was founded, he was elected to the position of Town Trustee in 1846 for a one-year term
                    and held the office at least two more times—in 1849 and on appointment to fill a vacancy
                    in 1851.12 He apparently was not a prominent figure in the 1848 national
                    election because his name does not appear on any of the party committees.
            Taylor was also interested in 
                        South Bend
                     real estate and the sale and resale of the original 408 lots in the town which had been
                    nearly completed by 1849. Three years later the trader prepared a summary which showed a profit of
                    $2,054.50 to the partners.13
            
            
               Sold by Coquillard and Taylor
               
                  42 lots
                  518.25
                  
               
               
                  76 " S. Hanna
                  9,391.00
                  
               
               
                  78 " L. M. Taylor
                  9,867.10
                  
               
               
                  17 For Colerick
                  300.00
                  
               
               
                  17 Thompson
                  300.00
                  
               
               
                  40 Barbee
                  700.00
                  $21,076.35
               
            
            Many of these lots were sold for small down payments with interest at ten per cent. In the hard times
                    of the 1830's, Taylor was forced to recover many which he later resold. In 1841, he had
                    offered to trade Horace B. Taylor's note for $1,418.71 on a part of
                    Hanna's lot shares. The partners retained many lots which had not yet been sold in 1852.
                    David H. Colerick, one of the partners, was an Indian trader of 
                  
                     11
                     Ibid. A loose note is inserted in the book.
                  
                     12 Timothy E. Howard, A History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1907), I, 358; 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, St. Joseph Valley Register, August 30, 1849.
                  
                     13 Taylor, Real Estate, 20; Taylor, Sales Book, loose note.
               
                     northern Indiana who was usually allied to Samuel Hanna, Allen
                    Hamilton, Cyrus Taber, and James Barnett. William Barbee, another partner, prepared the first
                    recorded plat in 1835 with Henry Harmon on which the name "
                        Mishawaka
                    " appeared.14 Thompson does not appear in 
                        St. Joseph County
                     histories but probably refers to Dr. Lewis G. Thompson of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . This entire project would have been lost had Elisha B. Harris and John Bequette been
                    able to secure the land through the use of Peter Gebo or had William Brookfield's first
                    location of the county seat on his own farm not been set aside.
            For a man with as many diverse interests as Colonel Taylor possessed, the last forty years of his
                    life present a marked contrast to his early career. There was a gradual transition from the
                    activities of the shrewd businessman and community promoter, to that of a passive symbol of a
                    pioneer past. After he retired, he sat at his corner home for many years and watched the activities
                    of the "leading citizens" who succeeded him, most of whom he survived.15 Taylor was the subject of occasional articles of reminiscences, but no
                    personal records or newspaper notices which contribute to this study until his death on August 29,
                    1892, recalled the stories of his past contributions to the early days of 
                        South Bend
                    . C. C. Chapman and Company published its History of 
                            St. Joseph County
                        
                in 1880 and omitted Colonel Taylor from the biographical sketches. There seems
                    to be full justice done to his part in the affairs of the community from 1827 to about 1845, but
                    there is no mention of any later activities. The suspicion of financial contributions attached to
                    the early county histories may have caused Taylor to avoid publicity which sometimes bore a price
                    tag. "A Thirty-Onester" was the author of a series of reminiscences in 1876, who
                    characterized Taylor in a manner that may offer a clue to his later life. "He was
                    methodical, orderly and honest in everything he did. I have often thought his retiring habits and
                    disinclination to mix up in public affairs of the county was a real detriment to 
                  
                     14 Howard, History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                
                     , I, 321.
                  
                     15 Miss Thaddessa Taylor, daughter of Thaddeus Taylor and
                            granddaughter of L. M. Taylor, says her best remembrance of her grandfather is of his tall,
                            white summer hat as he sat in his accustomed place at the side of his house. He gave his
                            grandchildren dimes for telling their geography lesson but thought the best way to study
                            that lesson was to travel and see for one's self.
               
                     him and to the public."16 This
                    disinclination to mix in public affairs was a development of his later years.
            The Goodspeed Brothers of 
                        Chicago
                     published a history of 
                        St. Joseph
                     and 
                        Elkhart
                     counties in 1893, which included a three-page biography of Taylor. Although it is the
                    most complete biography which has been published, most of it was assembled from Colonel
                    Taylor's obituary published in the 
                        South Bend
                    
                    Tribune, August 30, 1892. The Goodspeeds give another clue to the
                    Colonel's retirement: "As he grew older, the habits of his earlier years with the
                    Indians seem to come back, … he really enjoyed living over that early life in his last
                        years."17
            
            Timothy E. Howard compiled a most comprehensive history of 
                        St. Joseph County
                     in 1907, which credited Taylor with his activities in the organization of the county
                    and city but pointedly omitted a full biographical sketch.
            Taylor's career after the sale of his store may be divided into two parts: nine years of
                    operation as a fur buyer and a long period of retirement until his death. His fur trade reached a
                    climax about 1851 to 1853 and then dwindled to practically nothing by 1856. The final removal of the
                    Pota-watomi in 1851 did not greatly influence the quantity of furs obtained as these were now
                    brought in by the whites. Colonel Taylor ended his last civic office tenure at about the same time
                    that he withdrew from business. He then retired to live on the modest returns from his investments
                    and maintained a complete disinterestedness in business or community leadership for thirty-six
                    years. The Suspended Ledger was maintained, a proof of his methodical habits, until a few months
                    before his death. The biographies agreed upon his calmness, which may also explain his contentment
                    in retirement after the heavy burdens of his first twenty years in 
                        South Bend
                    .18
            
            
               
                  16 See "A Thirty-Onester," under the caption, "
                            South Bend
                         and Portage Township," in the 
                            South Bend
                        , Indiana, Daily Register, April 6, 1876.
               
                  17
                        
                            South Bend
                        , Indiana, Daily Tribune, August 30, 1892; Goodspeed, History of 
                                St. Joseph
                             and 
                                Elkhart
                             Counties, 776.
               
                  18 L. M. Taylor's wife, Mary Johnson Talor, was a native of
                        Indiana and died in 1879. Her husband insisted on living alone in their home until his death on
                        August 29, 1892, after his usual two-mile walk to the edge of town on the previous day. He was
                        survived by a son Thaddeus S. Taylor, whose two daughters, Mary and Thaddessa, reside in 
                            South Bend
                        ; two daughters, Mrs. Virginia Nicar of 
                            South Bend
                        , and Mrs. D. K. Wall of 
                     Denver,
                                Colorado
                  ; and one brother, William.
                        C. Taylor, of Wadsworth, 
                     Colorado.
                                South Bend
                  , Indiana, Dady
                            Trtbune, August 30, 1892.
            
            
            Taylor's career can be summarized as an implementation of his earliest purposes when
                    settling at the south bend of the river. He was sent to develop a fine natural location for white
                    settlement; he exhibited untiring efforts to establish that site and capitalize on his commercial
                    position; and finally, he retired to peaceful enjoyment of a successful but strenuous career. His
                    early activities were marked by the four-year period in which he served as clerk of S. Hanna and
                    Company at 
                        South Bend
                    , and the succeeding five years spent as a partner with Hanna in the store and in
                    developing the advantages of his primary location. From 1836 to 1847 he was the sole proprietor of
                    the L. M. Taylor store, and his major effort was to prevent his financial failure during the panic
                    of 1837. He capitalized on his success during the panic, and after selling his store in 1847
                    continued to operate for about ten years as an independent fur buyer. He then retired from active
                    business until his death in 1892.
            Taylor was primarily a trader for Indian goods. He moved to the St. Joseph River
                    more than two years before 
                        St. Joseph County
                     was established and the first land entries made. Although a few white squatters and
                    traders were in the area, only one other white man was at the present site of 
                        South Bend
                    . When Taylor retired twenty-nine years later, the Indians had nearly all gone to
                    western reservations and had given up their reserves of land in the state. As a trader,
                    Taylor's success depended on his relationship with these Indians and thus was affected by
                    every aspect of the Indian problem. This area had not been opened for white settlers in 1827, but it
                    was the next region to be acquired by treaty. The Indian problem was quickly eliminated in northern
                    Indiana. In 1838, the procedure was decided upon, and the final removals were made in 1851, twenty
                    years after the white settlers gained entry to the land.
            A study of Taylor's work shows many Indians remained in this territory after the government
                    removals to the west. The following table is a record of the number of names carried in his account
                    for the period, and it is proof that the treaties and westward removals did not greatly change the
                    Indian population of this district.
            
            
               Indian Accounts from Taylor's Account Books Indices
               
                  
                            Book
                        
                  
                            Number of Indian Names in Index of Book
                        
               
               
                  Ledger B 1828–1832
                  132
               
               
                  Ledger C 1831–1833
                  94
               
               
                  Indian Accounts taken to 
                                Tippecanoe
                             and 
                                Chicago
                             Treaties
               
               
                  
                  130
               
               
                  Indian Accounts, 1833–39
                  265
               
               
                  Ledger B 1840–45
                  197
               
               
                  Indian Accounts, 1840–45
                  181
               
               
                  Indian Ledger 1840–56
                  165
               
            
            The Treaty of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     on October 27, 1832, was the most fully documented agreement with which Taylor was
                    concerned. In addition to showing the type of goods used for payment at the treaties it gave proof
                    of unsavory practices of the treaty commissioners and traders. The latter sold their goods at
                    increased prices on their disbursement sheets for payment by the federal government at the expense
                    of the Indians and federal taxpayers. The commissioners or traders who served as subcommissioners to
                    certify each others' invoiced goods probably profited by the arrangement. Taylor did not
                    confirm any account for others, but his partner, Hanna, confirmed many at this treaty. After
                    Taylor's invoice had been copied by three other traders, the prices were raised, and the
                    invoices were then certified by commissioners and subcommissioners for collection. Taylor received
                    the orders for payment and could not have been ignorant of the process, even if he failed to profit
                    from the scheme. Other Indian treaties did not concern Taylor so much since remaining ones were made
                    with individual bands, and even at the 
                        Chicago
                     settlement of 1833 he was not successful in selling a large stock of merchandise. He
                    may have benefited from some, but there is no evidence that he did.
            The Indian settlements were the most important feature of his early business years. By this system he
                    was sure of collection of the accounts in which he had extended credit to the buyers of his
                    merchandise, although the prices were undoubtedly high and some of the goods of poor quality.
                    Taylor's invoices proved that the Indians bought more useful goods than was usually thought
                    to be the case. The settlements at 
                  Tippecanoe,
                            Chicago
               , and that made by General William
                    B. Mitchell were the most important events in Taylor's Indian  trade. He obtained good money from the government by this feature of
                    its Indian policy which gave him the necessary financial stability. The fur trade was a quick source
                    of money which enabled the traders to deal with the Indians and indirectly with the federal
                    government. It was a temporary source which helped finance Taylor and others. They in turn were able
                    to start more permanent commercial sources of wealth.19
            
            It has been indicated that Taylor dealt primarily in furs and other Indian goods, although he entered
                    into other lines of merchandise as fast as his market permitted. He undoubtedly used this trade to
                    acquire both choice lands and a price lower than the government acts specified. The trader abandoned
                    the complex general store business when he had acquired a small fortune and returned to the fur
                    trade, which was comparatively uncomplicated because collections were sure, and he knew that the
                    Indians would soon cease to be a source of trade and furs.
            Taylor's decision to concentrate on fur activities may also have been partly due to banking
                    and other financial problems which plagued the frontier merchant. Taylor used credit sales in which
                    no interest was charged; notes, at ten and twenty per cent interest; drafts on mercantile houses and
                    banks which could be exchanged for currency but were usually discounted each time they changed
                    hands; and the bank notes of the day. He seemed to prefer notes as a means of credit extension,
                    although they often required legal process for collection. The drafts were usually used as a
                    convenient form of exchange for large payments in the east and depended on the reputation for
                    integrity of the firms concerned. Paper currency was the most irritating medium of exchange because
                    it was dependent on so many factors, especially distance and negotiability, that the merchant was
                    constantly threatened with losses. Currency which was accepted in 
                        South Bend
                     might be rejected for payments in 
                        Detroit
                     or 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . The attention exercised by the storekeeper in this problem led many to become bankers
                    in Lewis Atherton's opinion.20 Horatio Chapin of 
                        South Bend
                     was originally a merchant but 
                  
                     19
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, 
                        St. Joseph Valley Register,
                            May 5, 1848. An article estimates that the population of 
                                South Bend
                             had reached 1,600. About $75,000 was invested.
                  
                     20 Lewis E. Atherton, The Pioneer Merchant in
                            Mid-America (
                        Columbia, Missouri
                     , 1939), 105.
               
                     later became the town's leading banker.21 Samuel Hanna also followed this course.
            Taylor's answer to the unstable currency situation lead to the movement to establish a
                    branch of the State Bank of Indiana in 
                        South Bend
                    . He soon found, however, that this was not a satisfactory solution to his need for a
                    universally accepted form of exchange. As a Whig, he probably saw in the federal Indian treaty
                    settlements a proof of the need for a national currency.22
            
            As a retail merchant, Taylor assumed the risks of transportation to buy from the wholesale houses of
                    the east coast. 
                        South Bend
                     lies in the Great Lakes watershed, and he was fortunate in operating when the Erie
                    Barge Canal was built. If he had been dependent on the 
                        Ohio
                    -Mississippi River routes, he would have been at a disadvantage in
                    competing with more accessible areas of the state. The Canal-Great Lakes route permitted rapid
                    settlement and commercial development of the Lakes region in the Old Northwest. The question of
                    transportation facilities determined the financial allegiance of this part of the state.
                            
                  New York, Buffalo
               , and 
                        Detroit
                     were bound to interest themselves in regions which were their markets. Atherton says
                    that the Eastern cities were equally dominant in Southern trade.23 From the
                    point of view of northern Indiana, however, there was little interest in areas other than the
                    Northeast, for that was almost the only economic market or source of supply. Suydam and Sage were
                    sources of unfailing services as Taylor's east coast representative, as were several other 
                        New York
                     companies.24 This dependence should not be minimized nor should the
                    degree to which economic 
                  
                     21 Howard, History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                
                     , I, 228. The first cargo of the keel boat, "Fair
                            Play," was merchandise for Chapin's store.
                  
                     22 For a description of the effects of the monetary system at the
                            time, see Atherton, The Pioneer Merchant, 23–25. Frederick
                            Jackson Turner, The Frontier in American History (
                                New York
                            , 1920), 136–137, 276, presents the need for eastern capital in the
                            west.
                  
                     23 Atherton, The Pioneer Merchant, 49–58.
                  
                     24 Walter Barrett (Joseph A. Scoville), The Old Merchants
                                of 
                                    New York
                                 City (
                                New York
                            , 1863), Second Series, 264–276. The Suydams consisted of a large
                            family of merchants who had connections with many other business houses through marriage and
                            partnership. The firms of Suydam and Jackson secured a large share of the Indian contracts
                            during the 1830's. Suydam and Sage probably failed in 1851 or 1852, due to
                            over-extension of credit to western merchants. The 
                        St. Joseph
                                Valley Register, November 6, 1846, includes Ferdinand Suydam as the
                            owner of a 
                                South Bend
                             grist mill on which the taxes were delinquent. Such a distant piece of property
                            might have been acquired in the settlement of a bad debt.
               
                     development, transportation, and communication forced Taylor to
                    rely on co-operation and integrity on the part of friends as well as business associates.
            The 
                        Michigan
                     Road was a negligible factor in Taylor's business. His goods were hauled as
                    slowly and in much smaller quantities than on the Great Lakes. Even 
                        Fort Wayne
                     lost its importance as a market. The St. Joseph River route and
                    the Great Lakes were the means of bringing cheap goods which enabled him to compete with other areas
                    and merchants. He saw the desirability of an east-west railroad, but it is important that he had no
                    desire or need for a north-south railroad. He did not remain in business long after the railroad was
                    established, and it had no effect on his success.
            Colonel Taylor's place in 
                        South Bend
                     history has always been based on his active part in the establishment of the town. He
                    was co-owner of the platted townsite with Coquillard, and they used every means to make their
                    location the county seat. Taylor may have been aware of the movement in the Indiana legislature to
                    open this area for land sales and to establish 
                        St. Joseph County
                    . If he did not know what was being done, he at least was ready for such action. He held
                    three county offices and one federal office simultaneously and soon added the commanding rank in the
                    local militia regiment. He was a leader in movements toward civic expansion or improvements for
                    fifteen years. These usually required time and occasionally money of a man who had fairly extensive
                    business interests. Another effect Taylor exercised on the small community must be considered. His
                    success, extension of credit to numerous settlers, and retail sales of a general stock of goods were
                    important to the community. If he had used different financial policies, his customers would have
                    been adversely affected. Careful buying in 
                        New York
                     secured necessities for his neighbors at a cheaper cost than would have been possible
                    through wholesale connections with other cities. Many merchants who moved to 
                        South Bend
                     became bankrupt in a short time. Their failures were unfortunate, especially when the
                    services they should have rendered to the settlers of the new community are taken into account.
                    Taylor's material success, on the other hand, reflected to some degree the extent to which
                    he performed essential services for his customers.
            The fur trader's real estate activities have already been mentioned. The most important
                    feature was the purchase of  the tract of land from Peter Gebo
                    which became Taylor's share of the 
                        South Bend
                     townsite. He recognized its strategic value, for it was bought as soon as land entries
                    were authorized, and evidently secured before that time. It was an expensive and difficult job to
                    clear the title, but the tract was the key to Hanna and Company's dominant position in the
                    new town. Taylor later bought other farms, usually from Indians. Most of these were entered as
                    purchases from the United States but were actually reserved lands. There is no way to learn whether
                    he believed these to be choice sections or only a method by which he liquidated some of his Indian
                    accounts, but most of them were not financially important.
            His profits on such transactions were usually modest, except on the Gebo tract and an 
                        Elkhart County
                     tract.25 He was not a land speculator in the usual sense but bought
                    from his Indian customers whenever it was advantageous to do so. These land purchases were important
                    to Taylor, and although he experienced great difficulty in clearing some of the claims, his
                    brother-in-law, he also served the interests of 
                        South Bend
                    .
            From the summary of Colonel Taylor's business activities the following conclusions can be
                    drawn. Samuel Hanna should be given much credit for his contributions to the success of 
                        South Bend
                    . His company was responsible for the selection of the site for its trading post, it
                    supplied the financial resources and plans necessary to start the new town, and it continued to
                    share in the town's development for twenty years. Hanna helped to stabilize its financial
                    structure through the panic of 1837, and while he was primarily serving himself and his
                    brother-in-law, he also served the interests of 
                        South Bend
                    .
            The furs of the Indian trade supplied the primary cash resource for pioneer settlement. The retail
                    stores of the period depended on the Indian trade and government settlements to furnish sound
                    currency. They could not survive on the early white trade which required liberal credit and brought
                    in barter produce and unsound money. Settlements were usually established on sound economic bases by
                    the time the Indian trade was completed.26
            
            
               
                  25 Taylor, Real Estate, 1–10. The 
                            Elkhart
                         tract was 160 acres and was not sold until 1880 by which time Taylor had secured a
                        nominal profit of $3,014.41, after forty-four years. The other extreme is illustrated
                        by the Pokagon tract of 640 acres. Taylor made a $26.00 profit on the purchase.
               
                  26 Charles B. Lasselle, "The Old Indian Traders of
                        Indiana," in the Indiana Magazine of History, II (1906),
                        1–13. Lasselle was a
            
            
            The careful, unspectacular, but sound business methods of Taylor were a necessary forerunner to the
                    town's success. He assured his own success and in so doing was able to carry his customers
                    and his financial plans through difficult times. He performed services for the new settlers which
                    assisted them to prosper, while failure in the first years would have handicapped the development of
                    the community.
            The importance of the northeastern Atlantic merchants nearly equaled that of the federal Indian
                    policy. The West was commercially and financially dependent on those cities. Taylor was directly
                    dependent on 
                        New York
                     City for his merchandise, his markets, and for many of his financial arrangements.27
            
            Taylor's personal and business record was clouded by the possibility of participation in, or
                    knowledge of, fraud at the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Treaty settlement of 1832. There is some question about his procedure in securing the
                    title of Gebo's land for the location of 
                        South Bend
                    , but other real estate affairs will bear close inspection. He did not sell whiskey to
                    Indians after he assumed control of his store, which was unusually ethical during his ownership. He
                    attempted to evade a transaction with Brewster by making a better sale in 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 1840 after securing advances from Brewster, and although the attempts made to play
                    Brewster against the Ewings in 1839 was questionable there was no actual dishonesty involved.
            Although Taylor was very active in community affairs while his business affairs were directly
                    involved in the settlement's prosperity, he ceased his activity after both were assured of
                    permanence. The very extent of his activities lend weight to the conclusion that he did not retire
                    from community life for wholly selfish reasons, but that his recurring and serious physical
                    disabilities were a major factor. His solution was effective, for he was active until his death at
                    the age of eighty-seven.
            
               trader in the central part of Indiana and 
                            Illinois
                        , and this article was written about 1856. He gives a good estimate of the value of
                        the traders to pioneer settlers. Louise Phelps Kellogg, The French Regime in 
                                Wisconsin
                             and the Northwest (
                     Madison, Wisconsin
                  , 1925),
                        and Harold A. Innis, The Fur Trade in 
                                Canada
                            
                   (
                     New Haven, Connecticut
                  , 1930), are good comprehensive
                        works on the early fur trade.
               
                  27 A. L. Kohlmeier, The Old Northwest as the Keystone of the
                            Arch of American Federal Union (
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana, 1938), 79, This is a good work on the importance of the economic and
                        commercial connections of the Great Lakes area.
            
            
            Finally, the fact that 
                        South Bend
                    's co-founder was regarded with respect and admiration by his contemporaries
                    who wrote in newspapers and 
                        St. Joseph County
                     histories should bear considerable influence in any summary of his career.
         
         
         
            A History of Social Welfare in Indiana
            Otto F. Walls*
            
            The social security and public welfare programs did not spring into full bloom in 1935 and 1936. They
                    grew slowly, out of changing conditions, to meet the needs of the citizens of the community. Almost
                    the entire development of the present welfare system has taken place within the memories of persons
                    now living.
            Developments in 
                        Henry County
                     are indicative of what has been woven into the present public welfare program.
                    Therefore, something of the history of Indiana welfare will be presented using 
                        Henry County
                     as an illustration. Personal experiences and knowledge, conversations with older men
                    and women, to a large extent recorded history, official correspondence and reports, and old
                    newspaper accounts will serve as the sources.
            Public provisions for dependency were few in pioneer days, but compared with the developments of the
                    times they were adequate. The early settlers were rugged people, who felt that all persons should be
                    self-sufficient, and families were responsible for the care of dependent relatives. If public relief
                    was harsh and stringent, so also was ordinary daily living. Money was scarce, and commodities were
                    frequently used as a medium of exchange. Any expenditure of public funds was a highly personal
                    matter with all the taxpayers. Standards of living were comparatively low in their own households,
                    and it would have been inconsistent to provide more for persons considered shiftless and lazy. The
                    professional approach with which most of today's problems are met was then unknown.
            Yet there was public need then, just as there has always been, and it was met. From the very
                    beginning of this nation the community, either through its churches, neighborhoods, or organized
                    government, has assumed responsibility for unfortunate citizens. This philosophy of aid had
                    precedent 
                  
                     * Otto F. Walls was the Administrator of the Indiana State
                            Department of Public Welfare from 1945 to 1949. He is now a resident of 
                                Knightstown
                            , Indiana. This paper was read at the meeting of the 
                                Henry County
                             Historical Society at 
                                New Castle
                            , Indiana, on April 22, 1948. In the History of Social Welfare in Indiana, the
                            emphasis has been placed on the role of 
                                Henry County
                             as it fits into this larger pattern.
               
                     in early biblical history. There have always been groups
                    composed of the aged, the blind, the sick, and the crippled to whom society felt it owed aid and
                    protection.
            As in most sections of the United States, the Northwest Territory's and Indiana's
                    early poor laws were based on the old Elizabethan poor laws. The territorial laws of 1790 made
                    provision for the poor through the appointment of township overseers of the poor.1 Indiana's constitution of 1816 (effective until the constitution of 1851) and the
                    laws written under it provided in general for five types of public assistance: Indoor relief in
                    which persons were placed in poor asylums or poor farms under the care of county officials; the
                    contract system in which the people as a group were placed with a private individual who was paid by
                    the county; the farming out system in which the people, individually, were placed in the care of
                    private citizens who were paid by the county; the apprentice system of binding out minor children;
                    and outdoor relief, in which the individuals and families were given relief in their own homes.
            Though Hoosiers everywhere have a great deal in common, there are many variations in the patterns of
                    early community settlements, among which are origins of nationalities, religions, purposes for
                    migrating to Indiana, and economic status. Although 
                        Henry County
                     was not settled until 1819, its early settlers were in general thrifty, courageous, and
                        poor.2 They came mainly for the purpose of establishing homes in the new
                    state. There were several neighborhoods of Quakers in early 
                        Henry County
                     who were well known for their hospitality and neighborliness. A fraternal and helpful
                    spirit prevailed among the people. There was work for everyone, and everyone worked hard. Church
                    activities, however, were of first importance among them. Among popular community activities were
                    quilting bees, corn husking, apple parings, log rollings, house raisings, sugar boilings, and
                    weddings.
            Despite this apparently ideal state of affairs, there was both dependency and crime in early 
                        Henry County
                    . In 1823 bids were taken on the first county jail, and in 1830 
                  
                     1 Theodore C. Pease (ed.), The Laws of the Northwest
                                Territory, 1788–1800 in the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Library Collections (
                        Springfield, Illinois
                     , 1903–), XVII (1925), 39. See also pages 216
                            to 232.
                  
                     2
                     History of 
                                    Henry County
                                , Indiana (Interstate Publishing Co., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 249–250.
               
                     it was found necessary to enlarge it. The present jail was
                    erected in 1866 and was probably the sixth to be built, each structure larger and more secure than
                    those preceding it.3 It might be of interest to discuss the development of jails
                    and the place served by the modern jail, as the inspection of jails is one of the functions of the
                    present State Department of Public Welfare, but emphasis here will be placed on the subject of
                    dependency.
            When the 
                        Henry County
                     Board of Commissioners was formed in 1822, at their November meeting of that year, they
                    appointed two overseers of the poor and an agent to settle with the overseers in the townships of
                    Wayne, Dudley, Henry, and Prairie. Overseers were appointed for Liberty Township in May, 1823. In 
                        Wayne
                     Township the first overseers of the poor were Ebenezer Goble and Samuel Furgason, with
                    Joseph Watts as agent.4 From the appointment of the first overseers until 1839,
                    the records show that the contract system was used for the care of the poor, and many payments were
                    made for such services. "May 1830 It is ordered that Ora Schofield be allowed the sum of
                    $22.50 for keeping Scruss Chamness, a pauper, from the 1st day of January till the 1st
                    Monday in May AD 1830." Five years later "September Term 1835, No. 445 Ordered by
                    the Board that John Whitaker be allowed $20.00 for keeping Benton Bonen from the 19th of
                    February 1835 and Mary Bonen from the 14th day of June 1835, paupers both up to this date."
                    And a third case for "January 1839 no. 1074 To Migrail Church $28. for keeping
                    Chockley Allen, a pauper, and for digging a grave and for burial clothes To Harrison Allen
                    $7.00 for making Coffin for Chockley Allen To Joseph M. Whitsell $13.00 for
                    medical services for Chockley Allen."
            The first poor asylum in the state was built in 
                        Knox County
                     in 1821. After a new law was passed in 1831, nearly all the counties built asylums.5 In 1839, the 
                        Henry County
                     Commissioners purchased from William Silver for two thousand dollars a
                    hundred-sixty-acre site one mile north- 
                  
                     3
                     Ibid., 305–307; Hazzard's History of 
                                    Henry County
                                , Indiana, 1822–1906 (2 vols., 
                                New Castle
                            , Indiana, 1906), II, 899–902.
                  
                     4
                            History of 
                                    Henry County
                                , Indiana, 859; Hazzard's History of 
                                    Henry County
                                , Indiana, II, 877.
                  
                     5
                            Laws of the State of Indiana, 1820 (1821), 102–110; ibid., Special, 1830 (1831), 6–7.
               
                     west of 
                        New Castle
                    . This was rented in May of the same year to John D. Fooshee for one hundred fifty
                    dollars, and it was directed "that all persons that are or may hereafter become a county
                    charge be removed as the law directs," and delivered to him, to be cared for at
                    $1.25 each per week. Bids were taken for the next several years on the contract for the
                    county home. Other persons besides Fooshee to obtain the contract were Samuel Hoover and Mark
                    Modlin, with the latter retaining it for the longest period of time.6
            
            An additional tract of land was added to the farm in 1844 and a new building erected. Thirteen years
                    later the building burned, and it was replaced by a large new structure which composes a part of the
                    present plant.7
            
            It is interesting to note that the county commissioners wanted the county home inmates to have good
                    care. Each contract stated that the person contracting shall board and clothe the paupers suitably,
                    make then comfortable, and treat them in a humane manner. Most contracts included responsibility for
                    attending "to the moral instruction of said paupers."8
            
            Nineteenth century community responsibility for dependency was dispatched principally through the
                    county asylums. The early ones housed the poor, the old, the sick, the epileptic, the insane, the
                    feeble-minded, the deaf mutes, the blind, the crippled, and dependent children. No attempt was made
                    to separate the shiftless and the vicious from the respectable homeless poor and orphans or the
                    able-bodied from the sick. This was the general situation in county asylums and also existed in 
                        Henry County
                    . A report in 1867 by Dr. Joel Reed stated that, "The inmates of the asylum
                    consist of a number of small boys and little girls, adults that are aged and infirm or such as are
                    rendered unable to make their own support from physical or mental disability." Other
                    reports showed tuberculous and cancerous patients, paralytics, epiletics, feeble-minded, and insane
                    to have been present in the 
                        Henry County
                     home.
            Gradually special facilities were obtained for various groups, so that care and treatment might be
                    given in relation to needs. The state could give better care more economically, 
                  
                     6
                            Hazzard's History of 
                                    Henry County
                                , Indiana, II, 903–905.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 904–905; History of 
                                    Henry County
                                , Indiana, 308.
                  
                     8
                            Hazzard's History of 
                                    Henry County
                                , Indiana, II, 904.
               
                     it was felt, than the counties, in that only a small number of
                    any one group would be present in a county. In 1844, the legislature provided for an
                    "Asylum for the Education of Deaf and Dumb persons in the State of Indiana." The
                    name was changed to "Indiana State School for the Deaf," in 1907, and the act of
                    that date also stated that "it shall not be regarded nor classed as benevolent or
                    charitable institutions, but as educational institutions of the state conducted wholly as
                    such." The State School for the Blind was opened in 1847, and sixty years later it too was
                    designated as an educational institution.9
            
            The first institution for the insane, originally called the State Lunatic Asylum later changed the
                    name to the Indiana State Hospital for the Insane, was opened in 1846 and operated as a custodial
                    institution. The 1865 laws developed the idea that both the curable and the incurable insane were
                    wards of the state and should have the best possible treatment. Three new hospitals for the insane
                    were established in 1883. A sixth hospital and a diagnostic center were provided for by the
                    legislature in 1945.10
            
            In the early years all mental defectives were regarded as idiots. This group was provided for in 1879
                    by the establishment of the "Asylum for Feeble Minded Children" to be located at
                    the "Soldiers' Orphan Home" near Knights-town in 
                        Rush County
                    . Ten years later the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     State School was founded. The legislature of 1919 established the Muscatatuck Colony
                    which was a part of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     State School until 1937 when it became a separate institution.11
            
            The third group of mentally handicapped to receive special facilities needs little explanation to 
                        Henry County
                     residents, for the progress of the Epileptic Village established outside of 
                        New Castle
                     in 1905 has been followed with a personal interest by many.12
            
            So it was that various groups having specialized needs and requiring specialized facilities of care
                    and treatment 
                  
                     9
                            Laws of the State of Indiana, General, 1843 (1844), 36–37; ibid., General, 1846 (1847), 41–43; ibid.,
                            1907, pp. 139–140.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., General, 1845 (1846), 116–118; ibid.,
                                Special, 1865, pp. 199–200; ibid., 1883, pp.
                            164–168; ibid., 1945, pp. 1570–1571, 1759.
                  
                     11
                     Ibid., 1919, p. 480; ibid.,
                            1937, p. 1117; ibid., 1889, p. 129; ibid., 1879, p.
                            76.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., 1905, pp. 483–489.
               
                     were taken out of the county homes. It took some time, however,
                    to provide for children. Children were permitted to remain in county homes until toward the end of
                    the nineteenth century with many of them bound out under the apprentice system. A few Catholic and
                    other church institutions had been privately established, and in 1851 the Widows and Orphans Asylum
                    was opened in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . By a law of 1875, the county commissioners were permitted to subsidize private
                    orphanges at twenty-five cents a day per child. An investigation in 1880 indicated that seven
                    hundred children under the age of sixteen were still to be housed in county homes, though there is
                    some doubt as to this figure's completeness. Legislation in 1881 authorized the
                    establishment of county orphanges for the care of children under the age of thirteen years.13
            
            In 1877 the beginnings of a subsidized boarding home in 
                        Spiceland
                     took form. Miss Susan Fussell of 
                        Chester
                     County, Pennsylvania,’ had visited in Hendricks County and seen such care
                    there. She offered to care for 
                        Henry County
                     Asylum children for twenty-five cents a day per child, but the county commissioners
                    reduced this rate to twenty-three cents per day. In 1880 Miss Fussell, with the help of a younger
                    sister, Ada, took nine children. Five years later the rate was increased to thirty cents per day for
                    each child. But in 1893 the county commissioners for economic reasons made a contract with Julia E.
                    Work, superintendent of the Northern Indiana Orphans Home at 
                        La Porte
                     (subsequently removed to 
                        Plymouth
                    ) to deliver to her from the 
                        Spiceland
                     home twenty-two children who were to be cared for by her and placed in private homes.
                    Mrs. Work was to receive thirty-five dollars for each child when placed. The practice of
                    transferring children to the Julia Work home was continued, and the Fussell Home in 
                        Spiceland
                     closed. On December 5, 1893, the commissioners contracted with the Aged Persons Home
                    and Orphan Asylum at Honey Creek to care for the dependent children of the county not yet
                    transferred. This home opened in 1886 and was conducted by the German Baptist Church (Dunkard) of
                    Southern Indiana and continued until a few years ago.14
            
            
               
                  13
                        Ibid., Local, 1850 (1851), 375–376; ibid., 1875,
                        p. 169; ibid., 1881, pp. 10–11.
               
                  14
                        Hazzard's History of 
                                Henry County
                            , Indiana, II, 906–909.
            
            
            It is perhaps ironic, in the light of earlier events which will be related presently, to mention the
                    disposition which Mrs. Work made of those children entrusted to her as revealed in a 
                        La Porte
                     newspaper. "Another County heard from. 
                        Henry County
                     … home at 
                        Spiceland
                     has been abandoned, and Mrs. Work arrived home (in LaPorte) with 22 children on
                    Wednesday evening. Several of the new arrivals will be placed in LaPorte County and the rest will go
                    to 
                        Iowa
                     in about two weeks. …"15
            
            There are two other nineteenth century developments in the care of Indiana children on which one
                    should dwell briefly, as both were significant in 
                        Henry County
                    . The one is with respect to the needs of war veterans' dependents which is
                    familiar to many. The State Soldiers Home was established in Hush County, just over the 
                        Henry County
                     line, in 1865. Some of the soldiers brought their children to live with them at the
                    institution, and a few orphans of soldiers were admitted to a small building on the grounds. Six
                    years later, the larger building burned and the soldiers occupying it were transferred to the
                    National Military Home at 
                  Dayton, Ohio
               . In 1887 a law was passed establishing the 
                        Knightstown
                     institution as a home for soldiers' orphans.16 It is
                    outstanding today for its kind in the United States.
            The second phenomena concerned dependent children of 
                        New York
                     City who were crowded into stock cars and shipped west by the 
                        New York
                     Charities Aid Association. Advance contact was usually made with responsible citizens
                    at stations along the railroad line. The children would be herded like cattle on an auction block
                    while citizens gathered to select those they were willing to take into their homes.
            Children for whom homes could not be found in urban 
                        New York
                     were quickly taken by middle western farmers, which shows how valuable children were to
                    the frontier rural economy. Between 1853 and 1864, the largest number of children placed in a single
                    state was 1,326. Indiana became the future home for this number. During the next ten years,
                    1865–1874, the second highest number of children, 1,484, were placed in Indiana. Later,
                    children were sent 
                  
                     15
                            
                                La Porte
                            , Indiana, Daily Herald, November 2, 1893.
                  
                     16
                     Laws of the State of Indiana, 1867, pp.
                            190–193; ibid., 1887, p. 16; Hazzard's
                                History of 
                                    Henry County
                                , Indiana, I, 60–63; A. L. Gary and E. B. Thomas (eds.), Centennial History of 
                                    Rush County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1921), I, 159–162.
               
                     mainly to western and southern states, with a gradual decrease
                    in the number located in Indiana.
            At least one group of 
                        New York
                     children was received in 
                        New Castle
                    . The following announcement appeared in a local newspaper: "The
                    Children's Aid Society of 
                        New York
                     will send a company of children to 
                        New Castle
                    , Indiana, within a few weeks. Those who desire to take one or more of them will please
                    apply to the following committee: Benjamin Shirk, James S. Ferris, Miles Murphy, Emsley Julian, John
                    W. Vanse, 
                        Butler
                     Hubbard." In the editorial column of the same paper under the caption
                    "Children's Aid Society" appeared the following explanation: "We
                    published this week a notice that this society will bring to 
                        New Castle
                    , within a few weeks, a company of children, with the intention of providing them with
                    homes. For the information of those who may not fully understand this enterprise, we extract the
                    following from the Society's Circular: ‘There are in the City of 
                        New York
                     thousands of poor idle children, a large portion of them orphan or half orphans, and
                    nearly all of them neglected and abandoned by parents and friends. In the absence of all restraint
                    or education, this multitude of poor unhappy, deserted, and degraded boys and girls are beginning
                    lives of vice and crime. We, as Christians, cannot look upon such a state of things without feeling
                    our responsibility to God for, at least, giving them the opportunity for improvement, and every
                    person throughout the country partakes in a greater or less degree, in this responsibility. To meet
                    these evils, the Charities Aid Society was organized. It's object is to provide work, food,
                    and homes for these needy children. So far as our means permit, we gather from the highways and the
                    by-ways the most friendless of these outcasts, furnish them with food and necessary clothing, and
                    cause them to be taken to all parts of the country, wherever we can find those who will receive them
                    in accordance with the Savior's demand.’ "17
            
            These children arrived at ten o'clock on June 26. "Mr. Friedgen, agent of the 
                        New York
                     Charities Aid Society reached 
                        New Castle
                     last Thursday, bringing with him a cargo of 46 homeless wanderers, whose destitute
                    conditions appealed strongly for a place in the homes and hearts of our favored community. Nearly
                    divided as to sex, in age wide 
                  
                     17
                            
                                New Castle
                            , Indiana, Courier, May 22, 1862.
               
                     range with the youngest being four years while quite a number
                    especially females were fully grown. With the advent of the children, a large number of people
                    thronged the Court House. In the course of the afternoon all but one half dozen were disposed of.
                    Next day two little boys were still left on the agent's hands. These he took with
                        him."18
            
            It is not known who in 
                        Henry County
                     took those forty-four 
                        New York
                     children, but, no doubt, they were taken into families and offered such advantages as
                    the times afforded. And probably they in their turn became substantial citizens of the community,
                    and their children and grandchildren are no different in aspect or accomplisment from others whose
                    ancestors came here in covered wagons or on horseback.
            It is fortunate that today dependent children are treated in a gentler fashion. Much progress has
                    been made since 1862 in the care of children as well as in the care of other dependent and
                    handicapped groups.
            The epochal event in the development of state and local care was the establishment in 1889 of the
                    Indiana Board of State Charities and Corrections. A serious defect in both the local and state
                    charitable and correctional system had been the absence of any comprehensive scheme of inspection
                    and supervision which would secure unbiased information as to the efficiency of the institutions and
                    the economy of their administration for the use of state officials and the public generally. Even in
                    local administration there was little central organization and less effective control. Such
                    inspections and investigations as were conducted by state and local institutions were hasty and
                    perfunctory.
            The importance of better control over all penal and benevolent agencies and the need for more
                    accurate statistical information were noted by governors of the state long before reforms were
                    instituted. The political patronage scandals of 1887 and 1889 focused popular attention upon the
                    question of management and discipline of the penal and benevolent institutions. The result was the
                    passage in 1889 of the act establishing the Board of State Charities.19 This act
                    was passed, in the words of the Attorney-General, Louis T. Michener, "to correct the abuses
                    which had existed in some of our State and local institutions, and also to lift the management 
                  
                     18
                     Ibid., July 3, 1862.
                  
                     19
                            Laws of the State of Indiana, 1889, pp. 51–52.
               
                     of such institutions to a higher plane, by the dissemination of
                    a knowledge to the officers governing them of modern and effective methods in the care and treatment
                    of unfortunate and delinquent classes committed to their keeping."20
            
            The Board was composed of the governor and six appointed members, three from each political party,
                    with the governor as president. It was to meet quarterly or oftener if necessary and to appoint a
                    salaried secretary. According to the act the Board was given the authority to investigate the whole
                    system of charitable and correctional institutions of the state and to examine their conditions. In
                    case of necessity the personnel in charge of the various institutions could be required to appear
                    before the Board, to produce papers, and to submit such information as seemed pertinent.
                    Furthermore, the Board could prescribe forms for reports and registration, and could also criticize
                    and suggest changes in the plans for the operation of jails and infirmaries. Each county was
                    required to present such plans to the Board before they could be adopted.
            The Board, however, did not have the power to correct abuses. Changes were made largely by calling to
                    the attention of state officials as well as the public undesirable conditions. The people had
                    confidence in the Board's recommendation. Among the results of the Board were non-partisan
                    administration of state institutions, regular supervision and inspection, uniform and high standards
                    of administration, business methods, and higher standards and more humane treatment of inmates. As
                    regards local administration, its work brought about a reduction in outdoor relief; improvements in
                    poor asylums, jails, and orphans' homes; reduction in the proportionate number of
                    dependents; homes found for dependent children; the regulation of child caring institutions,
                    associations, and maternity hospitals; and compulsory school attendance.
            Outstanding citizens were appointed to the Board. Of notable memory is Timothy Nicholson, a 
                        Quaker
                    , who was a citizen of 
                        Richmond
                     and was well known to many residents of 
                        Henry County
                    . Alexander Johnson, affectionately remembered by old-timers as "Uncle
                    Alex," was the first secretary 
                  
                     20
                            Biennial Report of the Attorney-General of the State of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1890), 161.
               
                     of the Board. He was followed by Ernst P. Bicknell and Amos W.
                    Butler. John A. Brown, now director of the 
                        Allen County
                     Department of Public Welfare, succeeded them.
            To bring about unity and understanding within the state among persons directly concerned with
                    charities and corrections, the Board inaugurated meetings of township trustees and county
                    commissioners. Out of these meetings grew the Indiana Conference of State Charities, which was
                    organized on an independent basis in 1893, and later changed its title to the Indiana State
                    Conference on Social Work. A combination of public interest and Board sponsorship brought into
                    existence the Indiana Mental Hygiene Society. These two organizations drew together representative
                    members from public and private agencies as well as lay members from the state who were interested
                    in charities, corrections, and mental hygiene. Both lay and professional members took an active part
                    and co-operated to promote their common interest. These organizations laid a good foundation for
                    Indiana.
            Upon the recommendation of the Board of State Charities, progressive legislation was passed. A study
                    was made of the methods and procedures in other states, particularly in institutions, and changes
                    and recommendations were made in Indiana on the basis of findings. Indiana became an example among
                    the states and a national leader in the fields of charities and corrections.
            Among the many improvements which took form under the Board of State Charities was the administration
                    of local poor relief. Prior to 1895 township trustees gave aid as they saw fit, with no supervision
                    of any kind. There were flagrant abuses with excessive expenditures in some places and actual
                    neglect of need in others. The law of 1897 required uniform practices of the township trustees in
                    the granting of relief. At this time township trustee aid was defined as temporary aid, and it was
                    stated that permanent charges should be removed to the county asylum. Policies were followed to
                    discourage dependency. Not until 1899 were modern methods of managing poor asylums prescribed. In
                    the county, as in state institutions, it was learned that supervision aided materially in the
                    efficient, humane, and economical administration of institutions. Under the reporting  system developed by the Board of State Charities both for township
                    relief and for county asylums care greatly improved.21
            
            By the 1897 law, the State assumed direct supervision over work for children and prohibited the
                    retention of children between the ages of three and seventeen in almshouses for more than ten days.
                    The county commissioners were required to establish and maintain asylums for orphans, dependent,
                    neglected, or abandoned children; to enter into contracts with associations for the purpose to
                    establish and maintain asylums; and to place children in charge of a state agent for placement.
                    After the passage of this law, and as a result of a joint conference between the commissioners of
                    Henry and Rush counties, Mrs. Ella Bundy opened The Children's Home in 
                        Spiceland
                     on May 1, 1905, and children were cared for in it under contract at three dollars per
                        week.22 The home continued in good standing for several years, with an
                    average population fluctuating between twenty and thirty. After Mrs. Bundy's death,
                    however, the quality of the home's services deteriorated, and it was closed in 1914. The
                    children in it at the time were transferred to orphanages in 
                        Marion
                     and other counties. Since then, homeless 
                        Henry County
                     children have been placed in the care of families, in private institutions, or in
                    children's homes of other counties.
            In 1899, the county boards of charities and corrections were established, and two years later the
                    county boards of children's guardians were provided for by legislative enactment.23 Although they were voluntary boards and had certain duties of inspection and
                    investigation including reports to the Board of State Charities, they had no actual administrative
                    authority. The first board of charities and corrections in 
                        Henry County
                     was appointed by Judge William 0. Barnard, and included John H. Hewitt, chairman, of
                    near 
                        New Castle
                    ; Mrs. Anna D. Welsh, secretary, of 
                        Middletown
                    ; Benjamin S. Parker and Mrs. Julia A. Loer both of 
                        New Castle
                    ; William S. Moffat of 
                        Kennard
                    ; and Mrs. Richard Wagoner of 
                        Knightstown
                    .24
            
            
               
                  21
                        Laws of the State of Indiana, 1897, pp. 44–48.
               
                  22
                  Hazzard's History of 
                                Henry County
                            , Indiana, II, 910–911.
               
                  23
                        Laws of the State of Indiana, 1899, pp. 50–52; ibid.,
                            1901, pp. 369–373.
               
                  24
                        Hazzard's History of 
                                Henry County
                            , Indiana, II, 911–912.
            
            
            This board, in the words of a contemporary, was to be the eyes and ears of the county and to make
                    inspections once each quarter. Both the county boards of charities and corrections and the county
                    boards of children's guardians served a real purpose.
            The twentieth century became more and more an industrialized society, with a great deal happening in
                    the general thinking of the public about social and economic problems. Poverty and dependency were
                    considered in terms of cause and prevention. Some related work was instituted in the field of
                    education and in the maintenance of public employment offices and public recreational facilities.
                    Whatever else might have developed in the normal course of events was cut across by the widespread
                    unemployment of the early 1930's. This happened so quickly that long-term programs were
                    discarded in order to meet immediate needs.
            About this time serious consideration was given to the premise that in this industrialized society
                    the cause of need may be far from local in origin. This trend in thinking, coupled with actual
                    inability of local taxing units to cope with the situation, brought about government intervention.
                    The first of a series of federal aids for local relief was effected through the Emergency Relief and
                    Construction Act of 1932, which made money available through the Reconstruction Finance
                        Corporation.25 This was followed by a great many types of federal help given
                    through W.P.A., C.W.A., F.E.R.A., and other alphabet agency programs which gave relief in various
                    forms, mainly through work. In 1933, Indiana established the Governor's Commmission on
                    Unemployment Relief to co-ordinate and assist the several agencies of the state engaged in relief of
                    the unemployed.26 Later, as the federal emergency agencies became more active in
                    the relief field, the GCUR co-ordinated and cleared the use of federal funds in the state.
            Under an executive order of 1933 reorganizing the administrative form of the state government, the
                    title of the Board of State Charities was changed to the State Department of Public Welfare.27 In order that the work of this agency and the Governor's Commission
                    on Unemployment 
                  
                     25
                            United States Statutes at Large, XLVII, part 1, p. 709.
                  
                     26
                            Laws of the State of Indiana, 1933, pp. 759–761.
                  
                     27
                     Ibid., 7.
               
                     Relief could be co-ordinated, the Governor named a joint
                    director and board, which continued until 1936 when the Public Welfare Act of Indiana was passed.
            While the emergency agencies were functioning, a feeling began to grow that the burden of caring for
                    dependents should be spread permanently to a partial federal base. The Social Security Act of 1935,
                    therefore, was passed to provide certain basic securities for the individual. Among its provisions
                    were grants to the states for public assistance and child welfare. The states, in order to be
                    eligible for securing such federal funds, had to pass legislation and set up machinery for
                    operation. Grants-in-aid for public welfare, just as for any other federally shared function,
                    allowed the federal government to impose standards upon state and local governments.28
            
            The Indiana Public Welfare Act of 1936 was passed to make Indiana eligible to receive grants-in-aid
                    from the federal government for aid to the aged, the blind, and dependent children; for child
                    welfare services; and for services to crippled children.29 In addition to the
                    federally shared functions, Indiana public welfare was given responsibility for an eye-treatment
                    program for the blind and incipient blind and later a medical-aid program for recipients of public
                    assistance. To carry out the provisions of the Public Welfare Act, the General Assembly established
                    the State Department of Public Welfare to supervise, and a county department of public welfare in
                    each of the ninety-two counties to administer the program, thus retaining a certain amount of local
                    responsibility. Parole supervision, however, is under the jurisdiction of the State Department. In
                    addition, the duties and responsibilities formerly delegated to the Board of State Charities were
                    transferred to the State Department. These include inspections and investigations of state and
                    county institutions, the licensing of all children's institutions, child-placing agencies,
                    and boarding homes. A recent law has also authorized the State Department to license nursing homes.
            The first 
                        Henry County
                     Board of Public Welfare, appointed by Judge J. H. Morris in 1936, was composed of Will
                    A. Smith, Ulysses T. Moore, Dr. Walter XJ. Kennedy, 
                  
                     28
                            United States Statutes at Large, XLIX, part 1, pp. 620–648.
                  
                     29 Laws of the State of Indiana, 1936, pp.
                            12–80.
               
                     and Mrs. Mame Hunter. The original board is still intact, with
                    the exception of Moore who died in 1944. It was largely through his initiative that many old records
                    useful in verifying eligibility data became available to the county department, and his efforts did
                    much toward establishing the present welfare program as a part of the county's public
                    services.
            Carl Strother became the first director of the 
                        Henry County
                     Welfare department and organized the department's services. It was a pleasure
                    in 1946 to present him with an award certificate attesting to his ten years of faithful performance
                    of service.
            In looking over the history of 
                        Henry County
                     and the development of public welfare, one finds allusions to many problems recurring
                    even to the present. An interesting article appeared in the 
                        New Castle
                    
                    Courier in 1870. "The county is swarming with a class of vagabonds known
                    as ‘tramps' who, during the summer season, strike out through the country, and
                    manage to steal and beg enough for subsistence. They generally make it a point to reach a farm house
                    just about dark, that hour being better suited to work on the sympathies of the inmates. When they
                    secure a night's lodgings they affect gratefulness and all that sort of thing, but unless
                    they are closely watched they leave early in the morning and carry away such articles as they can
                    turn into capital. True charity is commendable but help extended to roving characters like the above
                    is merely encouraging vagrancy, and making dead-beats of men who would otherwise strive to make an
                    honest living."30
            
            Besides showing at least partly the reason for the development of organized charities, this account
                    highlights a general problem. John Steinbeck's 1939 bestseller book, The
                        Grapes of Wrath, brought the migrant laborer to the attention of the public. With
                    today's fuller employment there is little of that type of problem, but there are still many
                    cases of dependency among nonsettled persons, and it is necessary to transfer dependents without
                    legal settlement back to their state of residency. This sometimes becomes a difficult task, with the
                    great variation in state laws on residence. Other functions in which residency effects procedure
                        
                  
                     30
                            
                                New Castle
                            , Indiana, Courier, June 10, 1870.
               
                     is in parole supervision and the institutional care of the
                    mentally handicapped.
            Someone has made the statement that, "The twentieth century has seen many changes in social
                    customs. More and more clubs and societies have been founded and combine charitable work with social
                    activities." This is true, but the older social groups also maintained charitable
                    activities. Such activities become more apparent as one notes the structure and activities of
                    present social groups. And in passing, special mention should be made of the Rotarians, Kiwannis,
                    Lions, Xi Iota Psi, Tri Kappa, Legion posts, and all the other organizations whose work has filled
                    needs which lay outside the scope of the public agency and supplemented the services of public
                    agencies. These organizations have taken over to a large degree functions earlier conducted through
                    "good neighbor" services and compare with the "aid societies"
                    which gave help during the Civil War to needy soldiers' families.
            In considering human needs, attention has been given to those currently experienced and in proportion
                    to the feeling about them and the knowledge of ways of meeting them. The span of life was
                    comparatively short a century ago, and medicine was in its infancy. Infant mortality rates were high
                    and little was done to guard child life. In the war for health, the chief concern was with diseases
                    prevalent at the time like cholera and smallpox epidemics, malaria, and typhoid riding under the
                    guise of ague or chills and fever or "the shakes." But as the wilderness was
                    beaten back life became more comfortable, modern science developed, and human life became something
                    to protect. Efforts have been focused on previously considered chronic or terminal diseases, the
                    refinements of public health, and preventive medicine. Indiana has increasingly turned attention
                    during recent decades to sick and crippled children, of which Riley Hospital in 
                        Indianapolis
                     stands as a living testimonial. The public welfare law makes services available to all
                    children who are crippled within the definition of the law and who may hope to benefit by treatment.
            A criticism of the 
                        Henry County
                     home made around 1880 received the following reply from the county commissioners:
                    "It would never do to make the fare, the comforts, and the general attractiveness of the
                    asylum such that able-  bodied, but lazy, shiftless persons of
                    whom there are a few in every community, would seek for a residence in the county home."
                    Something of this same problem and the method of handling it exists in the modern public welfare
                    programs. There has always been a desire to give adequate and generous help to people who needed it.
                    But it was never the wish, either in early times or now to support at public expense the person able
                    to maintain himself or who has relatives capable of his support. Nor is it fair to the taxpayers to
                    provide aid to the dependent members of a community to such an extent as to enable them to maintain
                    a higher standard of living than their self-supporting neighbors. These are problems which are
                    inherent in any form of welfare work. The integrity of self-support must be maintained in a
                    democracy. At present the problem is met through the use of county standards of requirements by
                    which each county sets up its own standards based on community conditions and establishes the
                    necessary costs of each recipient's unmet needs against these standards. The total amount
                    of aid must be within statutory limitations. With the present costs of living, however, there is a
                    small possibility that in any county grants of forty-five dollars a month will exceed low level
                    living costs.
            Today there are more public services than ever before in history. The state and county departments of
                    public welfare are responsible for only one segment of the entire public services conducted for the
                    relief of dependents and handicapped persons. Public welfare is given the responsibility for the
                    needs of long-term dependents. Short-term or emergency needs are met through the township trustees.
                    The county home, no longer the dumping ground of earlier years, is still used for the homeless
                    dependent of the county. There are fewer able-bodied inmates in county homes today, and it is no
                    longer possible to maintain large farm plants with the aid of inmate help. The increased number of
                    chronically ill and infirm members of the community who need the care provided by the county home
                    brought about the new 1947 law which permits the aged who need assistance to receive emergency or
                    permanent care there, but self-supporting persons are required to purchase their own care.31 Those county homes which meet 
                  
                     31
                            Laws of the State of Indiana, 1947, pp. 1217–1222.
               
                     standards set by the State Department of Public Welfare, the
                    State Board of Health, and the State Fire Marshall, may receive such persons. Nineteen of the
                    eighty-five county homes in the state, including 
                        Henry County
                    , have met these requirements. Veterans and other agencies give services to particular
                    groups. Hospitals and public health agencies are concerned with various phases of dependency
                    problems.
            Progress has been made in the general handling of dependents and handicapped individuals since 1816.
                    In the earlier days vindictive treatment was meted out to criminals, changing later to punitive, to
                    reformatory, to rehabilitative, and to preventive treatment. The earliest state prison in Indiana
                    was managed by the contract system which permitted exploitation of prison labor. Today the state
                    takes full responsibility for its prisoners as well as parole and other types of release procedures
                    to supplement penal treatment. The earlier custodial care of mental patients has given way to
                    curative treatment, and today preventive treatment is sponsored through mental hygiene clinics. The
                    dependent person of a century ago was the object of community comment. Now he is considered to have
                    "rights to relief," and his records are handled as a confidential matter. Aid is
                    given wherever and in whatever form needed, but basic to all relief is rehabilitation toward
                    self-support. Hand in hand with rehabilitation by using psychology, medicine, and all the other
                    skills of the modern age, the trend is toward prevention of handicap and dependency. Public health,
                    education, and welfare are particular fields in which people work together toward these ends. But
                    even more basic to the prevention of dependency and delinquency are community and family strains
                    which are inherited and pass on from one generation to another.
         
         
         
            A History of Publishing in 
                        Montgomery County
                    , Indiana, 1831–1940
            Herman Fred Shermer*
            
            Printing in 
                        Montgomery County
                     began at the county seat, as was the case with most counties in the Middle West. The
                    first newspaper was christened the 
                        Crawfordsville
                    
                    Record. The type and presses for the Record plant were brought
                    by freight wagons from 
                  Cincinnati, Ohio
               , about the end of August or the first of
                    September in 1831. Isaac F. Wade, who owned the equipment, was the first publisher of the paper. He
                    planned to issue the first copy about the first or second week of September, but when the cases of
                    type, which had been sent directly from the foundry, were opened, it was discovered that there was
                    no capital "D" in the long primer type. Wade was a Whig in politics and said that
                    he would have too many occasions to speak of the "Democrats and the Devil" to be
                    without the missing letter. He, therefore, mounted his horse almost immediately and rode to 
                        Cincinnati
                     to obtain the missing type.1
            
            The first issue of the 
                        Crawfordsville
                    
                    Record came off the press on October 18, 1831, at an approximate cost to the
                    publishers of four hundred dollars. The paper was a five-column, four-page, 13 by 181/2 inch folio sheet. At first the paper was published in a twenty
                    foot square building, but later it was moved to the second story of a brick business house which
                    stood at what is now the intersection of Green and Main streets. It was a well known and much
                    visited place on "press day."2 The terms of the paper as
                    stated in the first issue were as follows: "The 
                        Crawfordsville
                    
                    Record will be issued weekly on a handsome Superroyal sheet, with entirely new
                    type, at $2.00 per annum, in advance; $2.50 if paid within six month; or
                    $3.00 after the year. No subscription received for less than one year, unless payment be
                    made in advance. No paper discontinued, unless at our discretion, without special notice, and
                    payment of all arrearages. 
                  * This paper was written by Herman Fred Shermer as an undergraduate student at 
                                Wabash
                             College, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1
                            History of 
                                    Montgomery County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., A. W. Bowen & Company, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, n.d.), I, 355–357.
                  
                     2
                            Ibid., 357.
               
                     All persons remitting $12.00 in advance, or becoming
                    responsible for six copies shall receive the seventh gratis."3
            
            The initial issue of the 
                        Crawfordsville
                    
                    Record was made up with "Terms" and
                    "Advertisements," four and one-half inches in length, at the beginning of the
                    first column on page one followed by the "Editor's Address." After the
                    address was an article reprinted from the Lockport, 
                        New York
                    , Balance, entitled "The Hermit of Niagara Falls."
                    Foreign news articles began in the second column of page two. A reprint of a letter to General 
                        LaFayette
                     concluded the second page.
            The third page began with more than a column of "Selected Poetry" which was
                    followed by a number of short articles on a variety of subjects. An article entitled
                    "Arrivals and Departures of the Mail" began the fifth column and then came
                    "A List of Letters Remaining at the Post Office in 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , which if not claimed will be sent to the dead letter office." There was then
                    an advertisement by Lewis Morrison offering two stray mules for sale.
            Page four began with a summary of the weather for the past season, followed by a number of short
                    articles interspersed with local and national news items. Starting about the middle of the fifth
                    column there was a "Card" of thanks for those who helped the editors in the
                    preparation and production of the first issue. Following that came a notice of the opening of the
                    new school term and three advertisements, "Collector's Sale,"
                    "Notice of Public Sale," and "A Journeyman Printer" wanted by
                    the 
                        Crawfordsville
                    
                    Record.4
            
            Charles F. Bryant, an itinerant printer, helped Wade with the production of the paper until 1836,
                    when the latter sold out to George W. Snyder, another itinerant printer from 
                        Maryland
                    .
            Like most pioneer papers, the Record was not always published on time because the
                    paper stock had to come from the mills, either at 
                  Hamilton, Ohio
               , or 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, 
                  
                     3
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana, Record, October 18, 1831. Foster Fudge, the editor
                            of the 
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                            Journal and Review, has copies of the Record from Volume
                            I, Number 1, October 18, 1831, to Volume II, Number 51, January 1, 1834, and Volume V, June
                            11, 1836 to June 17, 1837. These are now kept in fireproof storage and will be turned over
                            to the 
                                Montgomery County
                             Historical Society when fireproof storage is provided there.
                  
                     4
                     Ibid., October 18, 1831.
               
                     and was frequently delayed in bad weather. Then, too, press
                    breakdowns occasioned long waits for the parts to arrive from Eastern manufacturers.5
            
            According to the file of the Record, George W. Snyder and W. H. Holmes were in
                    charge of publication on June 11, 1836. The issue of June 25, 1836, shows a change in publishers
                    when Ambrose Harland bought Snyder's part of the business. This change did not remain in
                    effect very long, for the issue of June 17, 1837, shows that Snyder was back at his old job and
                    Harland's name does not appear in that issue. Jere Keeney in his article on early printing
                    in 
                        Crawfordsville
                     stated that the Record was discontinued during 1837 after the death
                    of Holmes.6 It is probable that the Record was discontinued
                    with the issue of June 17, 1837, or soon after that date.
            In another article entitled "The Whig and the Republican Press," Keeney stated that
                    the Record was revived in 1840, first by William H. Webb, with the editorial
                    assistance of Colonel Henry S. Lane and James B. Johnson, and later by Peter J. Bartholomew. Neither
                    of these revivals lasted very long because of a lack of patronage.7
            
            The next newspaper published in 
                        Crawfordsville
                     was the Examiner. It was a weekly Democratic paper published by
                    George W. Snyder and edited by Phillip E. Engle of the land office. This paper began publication in
                    1837 and continued until 1841 when Joseph D. Masterson and Bennett W. Engle purchased the equipment
                    and began the publication of the 
                        Crawfordsville
                    
                    Review.8
            
            Sometime before 1853, Engle left the Review and Masterson continued alone. On July
                    15, 1854, the latter sold the paper to Charles H. Bowen, who was assisted at various times while he
                    was in charge by B. F. Stover. In 1872, E. C. Voris and T. B. Collins purchased the paper, and the
                    first issue to bear their names was published on September 7, 1872. A new firm composed of John L.
                    Miller, T. B. Collins, 
                  
                     5
                            History of 
                                    Montgomery County
                                , Indiana, I, 357.
                  
                     6
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana, Journal and Review, October 21, 1931.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid. See also History of 
                                    Montgomery County
                                , Indiana, I, 356, 357. "Newspapers in the Library of
                            Congress, Published in Indiana," Bulletin of the Indiana State
                            Library, XI, Number 4, p. 28, listed the Indiana Record, and it is
                            probable that this was the same paper which Jere Keeney called the revived 
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                            Record.
                  
                     8
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana, Journal and Review, October 21, 1931.
               
                     and C. W. Voris took over with the issue of September 13, 1873.
                    By August 7, 1875, John L. Miller had become the sole owner of the paper. He was assisted by W. H.
                    Faust with the mechanical help necessary in the printing of the paper. By October 22, 1881, the
                    paper had changed hands again with James B. Seller, John E. Hanna, and E. M. Henkel in charge.
                    Henkel retired in April of the following year, and Seller sold his part of the business to Hanna by
                    September 23, 1882.
            Hanna and Company began publication on July 14, 1883. Bayless W. Hanna, now owner of the paper, was
                    the editor. Two years later on February 28, T. B. Collins and John E. Hanna were the publishers. On
                    October 17, 1885, Hanna and Company sold the business to Fleming T. Luse, who became the editor; and
                    Clarence E. Galey, who became the business manager. W. E. Henkel became the new business manager on
                    February 15, 1890, and was followed by W. D. Harlow on August 15, 1893. On October 23, 1897, Henkel
                    again became the business manager of the paper.
            W. H. Eltzroth became the local editor of the paper on October 13, 1894. Luse left the newspaper
                    business in January of 1899, and Henkel and the Cunningham Brothers published the paper until March,
                    1900, when they sold the office to S. M. Coffman, who was the editor of the Craw-fordsville Argus-News, the rival Democratic paper. Coffman changed the name of the paper to
                        News-Review, and a few years later dropped the first part of the name. In
                    October of 1929, the Review combined with the Crawfords-ville Journal to form the 
                        Crawfordsville
                    
                    Journal and Review which is still being published.9
            
            Another early newspaper was the 
                        Crawfordsville
                    
                    Iris published by A. Rogers and N. P. Coltrin. The first issue appeared on January
                    10, 1843. Since there are only copies of the first two issues in the Archives Room of the 
                        Wabash
                     College Library, and there is no record of other issues, it is difficult to say how
                    much longer the publication of this paper continued.
            In 1844, the members of the Whig party in 
                        Montgomery
                    
                    
                  
                     9
                            Ibid. There is a file of the 
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                            Review in the Recorder's Office at the 
                                Montgomery County
                             Courthouse, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , and another at the office of the 
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                            Journal and Review.
               
                     County decided that they would like to have a newspaper.10 The answer was found in the People's Press, the
                    first issue of which was printed on May 11, 1844. They sent for William H. Bausman of 
                        Greensburg
                        Pennsylvania
                    , to fill the post of editor. He was assisted in the mechanical section by Jere Keeney.
                    The paper was published with apparent financial success until 1848 when because of bad editorial
                    management, the publishers were forced to change the paper.
            The result of this change was the Tomahawk. It was a small eight by ten inch sheet
                    which was published for six weeks. Later, in the summer of 1848, the equipment from the Press and the Tomahawk was sold to T. W. Fry and Jere Keeney for use in
                    the publication of the Journal.11
            
            The 
                        Crawfordsville
                    
                    Journal was first published on Thursday, July 27, 1848, by T. W. Fry and Jere
                    Keeney. In August, 1856, they sold the paper to J. A. Gilkey and D. N. Cantrill. The next publisher,
                    W. H. Faust, with J. A. Gilkey as editor and proprietor, obtained the paper in October of the same
                    year. Sometime after Fry and Keeney sold the paper to Gilkey and Cantrill, the name was changed to
                        
                  
                            Montgomery
                         Journal.
            In 1857, Jere Keeney again took over the publication of the paper, which he now changed to the 
                        Crawfordsville
                    
                    Journal. This change in publishers was caused by financial troubles in Gilkey and
                    Company. Keeney continued its publication until 1866, when George W. Snyder took over for sixteen
                    months. About the middle of April, 1868, T.H.B. McCain and J. H. Hendricks purchased the newspaper.
                    On November 5, 1868, Hendricks sold his interest in the business to John T. Talbot. McCain and
                    Talbot published the paper until April 9, 1874. Two weeks later, however, they printed a new paper
                    under the caption of Saturday Evening Journal. Talbot left the firm, and in 1888,
                    the Saturday Evening Journal was changed to the 
                        Crawfordsville
                    
                    Weekly Journal. The preceding year the daily Journal had
                    succeeded the Despatch, which had had a brief career.12 There
                    is no information available about the latter paper. The Journal
                    
                  
                     10 The ruling members of the Whig party at that time were Henry S.
                            Lane, James Wilson, Samuel Binford, Alexander Thompson, and Ben T. Ristine.
                  
                     11
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana, Journal and Review, October 21, 1931.
                  
                     12 The files of the Journal at the 
                                Montgomery County
                             Courthouse; at the 
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                            Journal and Review office; and at the Carnegie Public Library, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana, were used.
               
                     was always Republican (or Whig) in politics and when the daily
                    began publication, the weekly became nothing more than a party organ for the Republicans. Some time
                    after 1900 the weekly suspended publication, and the daily combined with the 
                        Crawfordsville
                    
                    Review in 1929. T. H. B. McCain published the paper alone until 1892 when the
                    Journal Company was formed. The officers were T. H. B. McCain, president; J. A. Greene, secretary;
                    and A. A. McCain, treasurer.
            Another paper of the forties was the Indiana Christian Herald which appeared on
                    February 20, 1849. It was published by Fry and Keeney of the Journal office with James H. Johnson as
                    the first editor. There is no record of how long it continued.13
            
            During the year 1852, a new newspaper appeared in 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , the Locomotive. It was published by Thomas T. Scott & Co., a
                    firm of printers. The first editors of the paper were Ted D. Brown and L. Dunn Ingersoll, who began
                    the publication with the purpose of breaking the Journal. Publishers changed
                    frequently, which was true of many other papers. Keeney, Scott, and Ingersoll were in charge on June
                    25, 1853, but this arrangement did not last long, for on January 21, 1854, Keeney and Faust were in
                    control. Five months later, however, William B. Keeney was the sole owner.14
            
            Jeremiah Keeney introduced the 
                        Crawfordsville
                    
                    Sunday Star on February 6, 1872. It was published for sixteen years. In 1888, the
                    newspaper went into the hands of Jere M. Keeney, Jr., and Willard Harlow. A short time later Harlow
                    sold his part to Keeney. Samuel D. Symmes then bought the paper from Keeney and published it until
                    the end of 1904 when he sold out to the 
                        Crawfordsville
                    
                    Journal. The Star was one of the few non-political papers in the
                    county. In addition to the Sunday paper, there was also a Monday edition.15
            
            The 
                        Crawfordsville
                    
                    Saturday Mercury was first issued 
                  
                     13 The file of this paper at the Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, was consulted.
                  
                     14 Copies of the Locomotive are on file in the 
                                Montgomery County
                             Courthouse.
                  
                     15 There is a complete file of the Star in the 
                                Montgomery County
                             Courthouse.
               
                     on September 18, 1875, by Charles H. Bowen. It continued
                    publication for about two years.16
            
            T. C. Purcel and Robert B. Wilson launched the 
                        Crawfordsville
                    
                    Argus, a daily, on March 13, 1882. Wilson became the publisher of the paper on
                    August 14, 1882. He was followed by J. R. Bryant and U. M. Scott, who later sold to W. E.
                        Rosebro.17
            
            The following year in August, S. M. Coffman and C. S. Galey began publishing the 
                        Crawfordsville
                    
                    Daily News. In 1885, Galey relinquished his holdings, and Coffman with the aid of
                    Rosebro consolidated the News and the Argus. This combination
                    was known as the Argus-News. The following year Rosebro retired from the firm but
                    helped in the office at various times after that. In 1889, Coffman began the publication of a weekly
                    along with the daily, and in 1894 he made the two papers Democratic in politics.18
            
            There were several other newspapers in 
                        Crawfordsville
                     about which there is very little available information. Some of these were the Western Reporter which George W. Snyder began in 1841; the Prohibitionist begun in 1886 by J. R. Etter and published for over a year; the Norths-Western Pioneer edited by C. S. Bryant; the 
                        Crawfordsville
                    
                    Tempest published by A. B. Cunningham; and possibly the 
                        Crawfordsville
                    
                    Monitor.
            The Botanical Gazette was first issued at 
                        Hanover
                    , Indiana, in November, 1875. The first volume was known as the Botanical
                        Bulletin. For the first few years M. Stanley Coulter was coeditor with his brother, John M.
                    Coulter. In 1883, the Gazette was enlarged and Charles R. Barnes and J. C. Arthur
                    became joint editors with John M. Coulter. For the first twenty years of publication the home of the
                        Gazette changed with the abode of one of the editors; at first it was issued
                    from 
                        Hanover
                    , Indiana, then from 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, the successive homes of John M. Coulter. From 
                        Bloomington
                     it went to 
                  Madison, Wisconsin
               , at that time the residence of Barnes.
                    In 1896, 
                  
                     16 There is a file of the Saturday Mercury in the 
                                Montgomery County
                             Courthouse.
                  
                     17 There is a good file of the Argus in the Carnegie
                            Public Library, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     18 The best file of the Argus-News in 
                                Crawfordsville
                             is in the Carnegie Public Library.
               
                     it was taken over by the University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, under whose auspices it has since been published.19
            
            There were many publications sponsored directly by Wabash College or indirectly through the different
                    societies and classes, which were published before 1900. Some of these publications contain imprints
                    which reveal that at least some of the copies were printed outside of 
                        Montgomery County
                     and some issues contain 
                        Crawfordsville
                     imprints, but the majority of the extant copies show no imprint whatever. The following
                    are the publications of which there are copies in the Yandes Library, 
                        Wabash
                     College. The 
                  
                            Wabash
                         College Catalogue first published in 1836 was found to contain both local and
                    outside imprints. It is still published by Wabash College. First recorded 
                        Wabash
                     student publication was The Morion, edited and published briefly
                    sometime between 1838–1841 by Overton Johnson, later to explore the West with William
                    Winter and to write the famous Route Across the Rocky
                    Mountains
               . Next came the 
                  
                            Wabash
                         Weekly Magazine which shortly became the 
                  
                            Wabash
                         Monthly. A fifty-six page, seven by ten-inch magazine, it began publication
                    sometime in 1857. The Geyser, another student weekly, was first issued on February
                    5, 1873, but suspended publication the early part of 1874. The Freshman Clipper
                    was a class paper which started on December 13, 1873. It probably ended with the end of that school
                    year. The Commencement Herald was issued by the graduating class of 
                        Wabash
                     College on June 14, 1876. A student monthly magazine, the Raven,
                    started in 1876, but it ceased publication with the fourth issue. The Uabach was
                    the yearbook of the junior class of 1879. The Lariet, a student weekly
                    publication, was first issued on September 16, 1880, but suspended publication on April 27, 1885.
                    Between 1890 and 1910 the junior class published the 
                        Wabash
                     College yearbook under the caption of the Ouiatenon. There were also
                    many programs, catalogues, etc., which were printed for 
                        Wabash
                     College and contain no imprints. Some of these are enough like other publications that
                    were printed in 
                        Crawfordsville
                     to leave no doubt but that they were printed here; others have no distinguishing
                    characteristics.
            
               
                  19 Henry C. Cowles, "John Merle Coulter," in the Botanical Gazette, LXXXVII (1929), 211–217. Coulter was on the
                        faculty of 
                            Wabash
                         College from 1879 to 1891.
            
            
            A short sketch of other newspapers in the county may be of interest. The first newspaper published in
                    Darlington, Indiana, of which there is any record was the Dispatch, established in
                    April, 1886, under the management of Charles W. Powell. In 1887 it was sold to Thomas V. Maxedon.
                    After two years it ceased publication but was resumed about 1891 when it was purchased by William
                    Pittman. At that time the name was changed to The Echo. It continued under this
                    title until 1916. Several years after Pittman had obtained the paper, he left Darlington, and it was
                    published by E. K. Burkett of 
                        Kansas
                    . Other owners since that time were O. H. Greist, first principal of the Darlington High
                    School; A. R. Peterson; Ernest Leachman; A. H. Shawber; Gertrude Cook; and Charles A. Marshall. When
                    Marshall bought the paper he changed the name to the Herald.
            A group of Darlington businessmen launched the News in 1907, and the first year it
                    was published by Homer and Rua Miller. Miller and his sister sold the paper to Charles and Edith
                    Marshall, who later sold it to Walter Honecker. R. F. Mix of Elnora purchased the News in 1911 and changed its name to the Record. He published the paper for
                    four years and then moved back to Elnora.20
            
            The 
                        Ladoga
                    
                    Ruralist was the first newspaper issued in that town on April 20, 1860, with D. A.
                    Burton as the editor and publisher. In 1872 William Boswell established the 
                        Ladoga
                    
                    Journal. It was purchased by T. B. Bell and Milton Scott, who conducted it for
                    about a year and sold it to John Harney. C. Kinder then took over and, in 1878, changed the name of
                    the paper to the 
                        Ladoga
                    
                    Leader. The next three publishers were W. D. Harlow, LeRoy Armstrong, and C. M.
                    Lemon, respectively. In 1900, Lemon sold it to J. F. Warfel, who was the city superintendent of
                    schools at the time he began publishing the paper.21 The paper is still 
                  
                     20
                            Darlington, Yesterday and Today, 1836–1936, is a paper-bound
                            volume issued to commemorate the one hundredth anniversary of the settlement of Darlington.
                            It was published by the Darlington Herald office. There is a very small
                            possibility that a file of early Darlington newspapers was preserved by the Darlington Herald, but if this was the case, it was destroyed by the fire which
                            occurred in that place in 1941. The information in Bowen's History of 
                                    Montgomery County
                                , Indiana, on small town 
                                Montgomery County
                             newspapers does not agree with either tradition or other published information
                            about the early Darlington publications.
                  
                     21
                     History of 
                                    Montgomery County
                                , Indiana, I, 365. The Carnegie Public Library, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana, has eleven copies of the Ruralist. The 
                                Ladoga
                             Public Library has a fairly complete file of the Leader from
                            volume XI on.
               
                     published and printed in 
                        Ladoga
                     as a weekly. W. H. Boswell began the 
                        Ladoga
                    
                    Weekly Herald in 1864. It was a single folio sheet printed on one side. The paper
                    was published for about eleven years. There are two copies of the paper, August 29, 1867, and
                    February 27, 1873, in the Indiana State Library. The 
                        Ladoga
                    
                    Normal Herald was first published in 1884 by the students and faculty of the
                    Central Indiana Normal School. No file of this paper is known to exist.
            There were two papers, the Leader and the Reporter, both weekly,
                    in Linden before 1900. The Leader was published by C. M. Lemon in the office of
                    the 
                        Ladoga
                    
                    Leader for about three years, 1884–1887. Between 1894 and 1903 Mrs.
                    Claude Works was the editor of the Leader. There are no available copies of either
                    of these papers. Two other Linden papers were the Advocate first published on
                    November 12, 1912, and the 
                        Linden
                     and 
                        Crawfordsville
                    
                    Co-operative News established in 1928.
            Many attempts were made to publish a newspaper at New 
                        Richmond
                    , but for one reason or another all have been discontinued, and there still is no
                    newspaper published there. The first paper was the New 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Weekly Times which was established on March 6, 1891, by George F. Long and
                    continued at various times by Ed. Zook and the Long brothers. In all it survived less than a year.
                    The next paper, which was published for only a few months, was the New 
                        Richmond
                    
                    News. It was a weekly paper begun in 1892. One of the owners was Joseph Smith.
                    Robert S. Osborn made another attempt in June of the same year and published the New 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Enterprise. It was a weekly paper and had a little longer period of publication.
                    The last issue appeared in November, 1899.22 On July 16, 1896, Edgar Walts
                    established the New 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Weekly Record. It continued publication for several years. There was also a job
                    department connected with it. The New 
                        Richmond
                     Weekly Farmers' Review was established in 1896. Its last
                    proprietor was Harry W. Campbell and Richard W. Campbell was in charge of the job department.
            The first paper published at 
                        Waveland
                     was the News. It was a weekly paper edited by a Mr. Boswell of 
                        Ladoga
                    
                    
                  
                     22
                            History of 
                                    Montgomery County
                                , Indiana, I, 365.
               
                     (probably William H. Boswell who established the 
                        Ladoga
                    
                    Journal in 1872) with 
                        Monroe
                     McCormick as corresponding editor in 
                        Waveland
                    . It was printed at 
                        Ladoga
                    , and its life extended through about three years. The second paper and the first one
                    printed in 
                        Waveland
                     was the Item. This was a small paper edited and published by Harry M.
                    Talbert and Frank M. Foley, who, at that time, were young lads. In 1881, they transferred their
                    paper to Messrs. C. F. Crowder and Zell Tracy of 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , who changed the paper to a folio size and the name to the 
                        Waveland
                    
                    Weekly Call. The first number of the Call was issued on February
                    11, 1881. Sometime in 1851, the 
                        Waveland
                    
                    True American was established. It was printed at 
                        Terre Haute
                     and only one issue was printed. About two other newspapers, the 
                        Waveland
                    
                    Press established in 1882 and the 
                        Waveland
                    
                    Banner in 1884, there is little information available. The 
                        Waveland
                    
                    Weekly News was established in 1884 by John Q. Russell. He continued its
                    publication until the spring of 1886, when Talbert and Scott purchased the paper. They published it
                    until January, 1900. The first copy of the Temperance Messenger published by P. B.
                    Rose was issued in the spring of 1873. C. A. Talbert and Charles Scott began publishing the 
                        Waveland
                    
                    Weekly Independent in April, 1887, but before October of that year Charles Scott
                    was the sole owner of the paper. He published it until 1901. It is still being published at 
                        Waveland
                    .23
            
            The 
                        Waynetown
                    
                    Democrat was the first newspaper published in that town. It began the first part
                    of 1879, and after a few months suspended publication. In September of that year Riley T. Runyan
                    began publishing it again, but it continued for only a few months. In 1881, Runyan bought the 
                        Waynetown
                    
                    Clipper from C. F. Crowder, who had only been publishing it a few months, and
                    changed its name to the 
                        Waynetown
                    
                    Banner. It was published under this name for a few months. Another newspaper, the 
                        Waynetown
                    
                    Press, was established in 1881. There is little information about this paper
                    except that it was published for three or four years. The Despatch was founded by
                    Charles M. Berry who sold it to Edward Copner of the 
                        Waynetown
                    
                    Democrat in 
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., 362–365. The Carnegie Public Library, 
                                Waveland
                            , Indiana, has copies of the Temperance Messenger, Call, and a
                            fairly complete file of the Independent.
               
                     1885, but he bought it back a few months later and then sold it
                    again in 1886 to John W. Brant who in turn sold it to Osborn in 1892. The latter sold it to the
                    partnership of Small and Brant, who began publishing it on May 27, 1893. By September of that year,
                    John W. Small was the sole owner. This paper was continued by him until some time after 1900 and is
                    still published at 
                        Waynetown
                    . The 
                        Wayne
                    -town Hornet was published in 
                        Waynetown
                     by Robert S. Osborn, who at another time published the New 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Enterprise. There is no further information available on this paper.
            On October 10, 1891, Henry Starnes began the first newspaper, the Graphic, in
                    Wingate. He moved to 
                        Waynetown
                     with his press in August of the following year. On October 10, 1892, he founded a paper
                    at 
                        Waynetown
                    .24 The next paper published at Wingate was the Weekly
                        News. It was founded in 1900 by George Schutz and A. J. Royalty. Schutz soon dropped the
                    partnership and Royalty's sons John F. and Frederick W. were associated with him at times
                    between 1902 and 1906, at which time his son John F. took over the paper. He was killed on June 6,
                    1910, and his wife assumed editorship. It is still being published, although it is printed by the 
                        Waynetown
                    
                    Despatch.
            
               
                  24 This information was obtained from Mrs. Henry Starnes, Hillsboro,
                        Indiana.
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            Latin Farmers in Indiana
            Translated and edited by Leonard Koester*
            
            The story of Latin Farmers in Indiana is here reproduced from Mrs. Karl Tafel's
                    autobiography, written in German and entitled Aus meinem Leben. It is printed on
                    slick paper and bound in leather. Neither publisher nor printer are given. On page two is printed
                    the following inscription and date: "I want to give my children the pleasure of having a
                    record of the events of my life as far as I can recall them. 
                        Newport
                    , Ky., March 14, 1907." It contains forty-nine pages. The first part, pages one
                    to eight, appeared in the Bulletin of the Historical and Philosophical Society of 
                        Ohio
                    , VII (January, 1949), under the title "Early 
                        Cincinnati
                     and the Turners." The second part, pages eight to sixteen, was published in
                    the Northwest 
                            Ohio
                         Quarterly, XXI (1949), 113–119, under the caption "Latin
                    Farmers in Northwestern 
                        Ohio
                    ." In the latter part Mrs. Tafel gives a description of her marriage in 1851 to
                    Karl Tafel, a pharmacist from Stuttgart, Germany, and their life on a farm in Northwestern 
                        Ohio
                    . Pages nineteen to thirty-two of the autobiography deal with their experiences in
                    Indiana.
            I wish to take this opportunity to express my appreciation to Nancy Lee Tafel for being the first to
                    put a copy of the work into my hands.
            
                    A friend of ours had a farm in Indiana. Papa looked at it and found there very nice people and
                        beautiful farms. In the meantime Karl's father died and we inherited quite a bit. Karl
                        bought eighty acres of land at Vienna, Indiana,1 one and a half miles from
                        the railroad station. The house stood in the middle of the farm. No neighbor house was to be
                        seen. In the spring [1855] we moved in with our three boys. Papa carried Albert, I carried
                        Eduard, and Willie toddled alongside. Our furniture came on the same day and was moved by a
                        neighbor. Our dwelling was a double blockhouse. Several rows of fruit trees and fourteen big
                        evergreens formed an enclosure around the house. We also had a large barn with a threshing floor
                        and hayloft.
                    
                  
                     * Dr. Leonard Koester is associate professor of modern
                            languages at the University of 
                        Louisville,
                                    Louisville, Kentucky
                     .
                  
                     1 Vienna is located between 
                                Louisville
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                             in Scott County, Indiana, on the Pennsylvania Railroad.
               
                    
                    Now the work began. Sixty acres were cleared land and the remaining twenty were in woods. Papa
                        got the plow and harrow ready. We had two horses and two cows, hogs, four sheep, and chickens.
                        The fresh air and milk did us all good. Papa soon looked better and little Albert began to put
                        on weight. Everything proceeded as well as we could wish. Only the horses did not work properly
                        together as yet.
                    On Sundays our German neighbors visited us. The nearest was Mr. F. Kiederle from Ulm, son of a
                        very esteemed family. His wife was from Stuttgart. They were a newly wedded, droll couple. Their
                        house consisted only of a room and a small kitchen. From Mrs. Kiederle I could get no advice,
                        and I was so anxious to learn. But to the other neighbor, Mrs. McCullough, I owe all my
                        knowledge and skill. She taught me to shear sheep, dye wool, spin, etc. All that went well and
                        already the next winter I had my own yarn for knitting. Later I had enough wool to have our
                        clothes woven and I paid for the weaving with a third of the yarn.
                    The second nearest neighbors were the Rueff family, also from Stuttgart. Then came Mr.
                        Dinkelacker, whose farm was nearer to Henryville, Indiana, and seven to eight miles distant from
                        us. All these people were likewise book farmers,2 but they were nice
                        charming folk, and especially was Mrs. Dinkelacker a very dear friend to me. We did not care
                        about the other settlers. During the long winter evenings I sewed; Papa sat half the night
                        through and read to me. It was so nice and cosy. Had we only had better light, we knew nothing
                        of petroleum and gas. Our harvest did not yield much the first year, but we did butcher two
                        hogs. What a celebration that was for us!
                    It is hard to form a good idea of what work on a farm actually means. The man has to cultivate
                        the land and tend the cattle, whereas the woman must make butter, raise chickens, peel and dry
                        fruit, spin, sew, wash, iron, etc. It was also up to me to exchange butter, eggs, chickens, and
                        so forth for coffee, sugar, shoes, in short, for everything which we needed and did not have
                        ourselves. However, we received little for our produce. When prices were high we had nothing to
                        sell. Because we didn't have a cellar for the milk, we could not make butter and cheese
                        during winter, when prices improved. Instead I sold dried apples, occasionally also peaches.
                        Several children I instructed in crochet work, who paid me with eggs and the like.
                    
                  
                     2 More often called "Latin farmers." They were
                            highly educated Germans who fled during the second quarter of the last
                            century—the Tafels emigrated after the Revolution of 1848—and because
                            of their idealism and intense desire for freedom and independence turned to farming. They
                            were the city farmers of a century ago. They knew Latin, but they frequently did not know
                            how to make a livelihood with their hands. Therefore the epithet. Many were complete
                            failures, some actually perished. Mrs. Tafel gives here a rare firsthand account of these
                            settlers, although histories of the German element in the United States regularly mention
                            them. See Rudolf Cronau, Drei Jahrhunderte deutschen Lebens in Amerika
                            (Berlin, 1909), 267, 497, 624; Albert B. Faust, The German Element in the
                                United States (2 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1909), I, 442, 584.
               
                    
                    On the third of January, 1858, our Theodor was born. We had no female help in the house. Papa
                        could not get any for money or good words. I had a big kettle full of fat standing by the
                        chimney fire when the doctor came. He helped Papa carry it out. The weather was frightfully
                        cold. I can still see the doctor, how clumsy he acted when he washed the infant. The following
                        morning a near-by neighbor, Mrs. Wilke, came who looked after the little fellow better and
                        brought me something to eat. She came daily for a whole week through and also took care of my
                        washing. From then on I got along by myself, with Papa's help, as well as I could. Oh,
                        how would I have endured it if our dear Papa hadn't been so good to me. He helped me
                        everywhere, nothing was too much for him. I was at that time very poorly and weak and could not
                        nurse the baby myself. That made everything more difficult.
                    Little Theodor, however, was a robust child. Albert and Eduard were growing stronger too, so that
                        in the spring I was able to undertake a trip to Rueffs on horseback with the three children.
                        Albert sat behind, I had Eduard and Theodor on my lap. However, I had to keep talking to Albert
                        all the time, so that he would not fall asleep and slip off. Willie had to stay with Papa.
                    In such a manner I managed to arrive at the Rueffs once again, when Mrs. Rueff called out to me:
                        "Just turn right around, you have visitors yourself." She was right. At home I
                        met Mr. Beckman, Dr. Hupfauf,3 and Prof. Ernst from 
                            Louisville
                        . Stiff from riding I got down from the horse. I offered the gentlemen pancakes with
                        excellent head lettuce and coffee. It tasted so wonderful to them that I had to serve a second
                        helping. Later on they often came out to hunt rabbits.
                    In order to earn money, Papa made railroad crossties in winter, which he would haul to the
                        station during the summer.
                    On the 22nd of February, 1860, twins were born to us. At noon on the day before I had the good
                        fortune at least to get Baeble, an old Swiss maid of seventy years. Baeble was the sole help of
                        all in such need. For ten miles around she was among young married people the only one of her
                        kind, so that frequently a person was in a dilemma where to get help, if the time figured out
                        was not right. This time I had double luck. The babies came so fast, that Papa did not have time
                        to fetch the doctor. In his excitement Papa pushed the light off the table. When he wanted to
                        pick it up he fainted. Baeble began to chide. It would be better if he brought his horse into
                        the stable, she said, otherwise it would freeze to death. (It was standing in the open ready to
                        fetch the doctor). He should be ashamed of himself to swoon away, she continued on and on. And
                        then the babies were born without any light other than with the light of the fireplace. How I
                        cried when Papa said: "Well, now we have six boys. Oh, Wife, how I feel sorry for
                        you!" But I did not want to be pitied, as long as my good 
                     
                        3 A paragraph of fifteen lines is devoted to Dr. Hupfauf on page
                                115 of L. Stierlin's book, Der Staat Kentucky und Die Stadt
                                    Louisville (
                           Louisville, Kentucky
                        , 1873). Dr. Hupfauf was an
                                outstanding physician in Bavaria and took an important part in the Revolution of 1848.
                                He came to 
                                    Louisville
                                 in 1849 where he was an agitator against slavery, as were most of the
                                Forty-Eighters.
                  
                         man was so kind and healthy. The neighbor women came to
                        visit me. I could not stand their gossip and began to talk out of my head. Then Papa sent them
                        all away.
                    In the same night dogs dug a hole under our smokehouse and ate and spoiled much meat. Papa laid
                        poison, and I believe three dogs died from it. That aroused angry feelings among the neighbors.
                        Papa got out of the affair by saying that it had been rat poison. The people did not hold it
                        against him long either, for they needed him too much in times of sickness. He was a trained
                        apothecary.
                    Willie and Albert went on horseback to our friends the next day to bring them the news of the
                        birth of our babies. After they were well on their way, it began to storm. It grew dark and
                        still the boys did not come home. Out of fear the minutes seemed like hours to me.
                        "Gee-haw!" that was their voices. They returned after sundown. What all they
                        had to tell! So many trees had almost fallen on them. One time their horse had to make a long
                        jump to miss one. They said that Mr. Dinkelacker wanted to keep them overnight or bring them
                        home himself, etc., etc. Right away on the next day Mr. Dinkelacker came to see whether the
                        children had come home safely.
                    Baeble was able to stay with us only seven days. I had, of course, not as yet regained my
                        strength, but I dragged myself into the kitchen anyhow. Baeble, the good soul, was making dough
                        to bake bread for us before her departure. She was just spitting into her hands in order to wipe
                        the hair out of her face for the sake of cleanliness and then stuck them into the flour. Prosit
                        and a blessed appetite! This fresh bread would surely not have agreed with me, and so I
                        preferred to continue eating Karl's cornbread. My friends, however, soon brought me
                        sufficient bread.
                    Papa went out to plow. No sooner was Baeble away than the little ones began to scream. My heart
                        wanted to break, and I cried with them, because I could not do anything for them. Fortunately,
                        Papa came. When he noticed Baeble take leave, he wanted to look after me. He warmed the milk and
                        the beds for the twins and comforted me. And then everything was fine again.
                    What a difference between the twins! The world did not seem to suit Richard, the first-born. He
                        cried all the time, while blond Hermann was always satisfied as long as he could suck his thumb.
                        At five months of age Richard had five teeth already, while Hermann had to wait fifteen months
                        for his first one. Thus there remained a big difference between both boys to this day.4
               
                    Spring led us back into our old habits. My sister-in-law Bertha visited us again with her two
                        girls and remained for some time. Her visit brought me help and a change, but I could sleep so
                        little.
                    We now had five cows and that increased our work. Papa milked the cows very early in the morning
                        and I took care of that in the evening. Because the cows ran around wild in the woods, they
                        always had to be brought in of an evening, which was the work of the children. One time they
                        went away early for this purpose. The cows came 
                     
                        4 Probably refers to 1907.
                  
                         rather late, but without the boys. We waited and waited
                        till nine o'clock. In a terrible state of alarm I wanted to go out and look for the
                        children, for we were used to going to bed with the chickens. Suddenly we discovered them
                        sleeping on their bed. Instead of scolding them in our first excitement, we caressed them, happy
                        to have them back again. After all, they were so tired.
                    Our harvest was a good one. Willie, who was only seven years old, was sent during late fall with
                        wheat or corn to the mill. A full sack was laid across the horse's back and he was set
                        on top, so that it would not slip off. He was usually gone the whole day, but never came home
                        without flour. Karl treated the family of the miller in times of sickness, therefore the
                        advantage over other customers.
                    In the winter of 1861, Willie and Albert went to school which lasted only three months. One day
                        Willie went all alone and on the way he had to cross a little stream. A tree trunk had been laid
                        across the water and this he had to step over. He fell into the creek and lost his dinner
                        bucket. He got out fast enough, but not his bucket. He cried loudly and when people came all
                        that he could say was "my bucket." They, however, understood him to say
                        "my brother" and jumped into the water. Finally the bucket was found. Only
                        then did they understand what he had meant. The children, of course, knew no English. Then the
                        people got mad at the "Dutchman." However, they laughed about the incident
                        when they met Papa.
                    The children wore neither underwear nor overcoats and had to walk the long distance to school
                        daily in storm and rain. They were, however, always healthy and strong. Very often the
                        schoolroom was not heated on account of a lack of split wood.
                    Papa finally gave in to the petition of his friend Scheffer, who was apothecary in 
                            Louisville
                        , and accepted from him a position during the winter as clerk in the drugstore. Mr.
                        Scheffer, namely, had taken his two boys to school in Stuttgart. I was glad to let Papa go, for
                        through this opportunity he earned some money. With it we were able to buy a new stove and
                        replace the horse which had died. Every fourteen days he came home over Sunday.
                    The Kiederles on the one side and the McCulloughs on the other side of us were good neighbors,
                        only we could not ask anything of them, for each family had enough troubles of their own. Mrs.
                        Kiederle was everything but a housewife. She had a girl two years old. Every Christmas she
                        received a box from home with presents, clothes, and such necessary and unnecessary things for
                        the family. Over this she was not any too happy, for she had to provide place for all these
                        things in her small house, a larger and a real small room. A dresser or something similar she
                        did not have, and so one box was put on top of the other. Often for the sake of convenience they
                        were left standing on the floor, so that it was scarcely possible to walk between them. In the
                        midst of disorder she was often to be found writing letters in the German, French, or English
                        language.
                    Secretly I envied this woman for all her wonderful things. In order to protect the young
                        vegetable plants from frost she often covered them with the most beautiful damask table cloth or
                        linen bed  sheets, once even with a red silk coat trimmed
                        with sable fur which just happened to be hanging there. The next morning she simply pushed aside
                        the whole affair with her foot.
                    At first the Kiederles bought everything on a large scale: 1 sack of rice, 1 bag of coffee, 50
                        pounds of tea, likewise sugar and medicines for man and beast. However, when worms got into the
                        rice, it was fed to the chickens. That, after all, didn't matter, but the coffee was
                        half burned at roasting and when there was no more tea, they simply boiled senna leaves of
                        which, of course, they still possessed so much. They had brought along three cases of shoe
                        polish; after three years they were still on the window sill, where they had been put at first.
                    As to peace of mind we could learn much from her. Hanging over the cradle she had three
                        bracelets, several rings and a watch tied together with a ribbon in order to amuse the baby.
                    The house door could not be shut tight. They often went away for days at a time. We talked them
                        into fixing the door so that it could be locked, which finally also happened. One Sunday they
                        were visiting us. Late in the evening Mr. Kiederle returned to look for the key to his house.
                        But it was not to be found. They had to break in the door. When they went to bed the key fell
                        out of his boot. After that the door was not repaired.
                    She once gave her husband twelve silver spoons to take to town for which he should buy her a
                        wardrobe. On his way back from Vienna he stopped at our house and instead of the wardrobe he had
                        a children's chair on his shoulder. With the rest of the money he had bought sample
                        seeds with which, however, he had no success.
                    At another time she threw out with the dish water a couple of silver spoons to the hogs which ran
                        away with them into the woods. In spite of all searching they could not be found. Then she said:
                        "Well, now I can have only ten children instead of twelve."
                    The poor woman died in Herman, 
                            Missouri
                        , giving birth to her ninth child. She was a very good woman. She had brought her
                        oldest daughter, 10 years of age, to school in Stuttgart. This journey she made with three
                        children, of which the youngest was three months old. She took along only three diapers and
                        returned again in soundness of health and good spirits. Only Mrs. Kiederle could do that!
                    In the year 1861, when Papa was with Mr. Scheffer, the war broke out. They wanted to draft him
                        too; but as apothecary he did not have to go. The history of the war you certainly know better
                        than I do. I only recall that the enthusiasm was great and that my brothers Louis, Theodor, and
                        Fritz marched off.5 Louis and Theodor, both married, were lieutenants under
                        Colonel Tafel.6 Fritz was still very young and ran away from home in order
                        to go along as drummer boy.
                    
                  
                     5 There were ten children in the family. Mrs. Karl Tafel was the
                            daughter of Ferdinand Friedrich Autenrieth, who had a bookstore in Stuttgart, but became
                            involved in the Revolution of 1848, and settled in 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     .
                  
                     6 See Oberst Gustav Tafel, Die Neuner. Eine Schilderung
                                der Kriegsjahre des neunten Regiments, 
                                    Ohio
                                 Vol. Infanterie, 1861–64 (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1897).
               
                    
                    Everything got very expensive. A yard of calico cost 30 to 40 cents instead of 121/2 a pound of coffee 60 to 70 cents. Many roasted wheat and
                        barley instead of coffee, but this did not seem to agree with me in the long run. My system
                        rebelled against it. I became miserable, wretched and weak. One day our friends Dr. Hupfauf, Mr.
                        Beckmann, and Dr. Ross visited us. Dr. Hupfauf was of the opinion that I should by all means
                        have better food. That was easily said, but where in these times should I get it? Then one day
                        two boxes full of wine, coffee, sugar, cheese, etc. were delivered at our house. Up on top lay a
                        big sheet of paper with the following note: "Please don't tell anybody, for
                        the Mrs. only. Dr. H.B.R." And behold, after a short time I grew stronger. That was
                        certainly wonderful.
                    Before the twins were two years old, one of them Hermann, suddenly got real sick with a high
                        fever. Now what? Since Karl had no faith in the Vienna doctor, I decided to go with the child to 
                            Louisville
                        . I saddled my horse in the evening in order to ask Mr. Dinkle-lacker to ride to
                        Baeble and bring her my horse so that she could ride to the children in the morning. Willie
                        played father,7 and thus I left the children alone over night with little
                        Richard. Mr. Dinkelacker brought me to the railway station at Henryville. I thought only of the
                        deadly sick child in my arms. At two o'clock at night I arrived in front of
                        Papa's store. He didn't believe his ears when he heard my voice. He found
                        Hermann very ill and fetched Dr. von Donhoff8 who laid the child in hot
                        compresses and diagnosed the illness as pneumonia. In the morning they brought me to Mrs. Halle,
                        wife of an apothecary, who had once visited us on the farm, with whom I had to stay ten days.
                    On a glorious Sunday morning I was allowed to return home again. A Mr. Alfred Hoffeld, clerk at
                        Mr. Scheffer's went with me. It had been arranged with Dinkelackers that I should come
                        to them by way of Henryville. He wanted to bring me home on horseback. In Henryville we got a
                        wagon right away to our friends. Mr. Dinkel-acker was soon ready, for I was impatient to get to
                        my children. It was about eleven o'clock when I opened the door to my house. What a
                        sight for me to behold! On each side of the fireplace stood a bed; on each bed stood two
                        children bombarding each other with pillows before a big fire. Richard sat in the middle of the
                        room and was enjoying the sport excellently, but when he saw me he began to cry. I asked:
                        "Where is Baeble?" "Oh she," they said, "she stayed
                        only one night and a day. She wanted to take us out to the field to husk corn. That we would not
                        do, so she got mad and left us!"
                    Thus the children had been left alone for eight days and had to do all the work. Willie milked
                        the cows as well as he could. They fed the hogs, the horses, and the chickens. When the baby was
                        hungry 
                     
                        7 Willie was born in 
                           Cincinnati, Ohio
                        ,
                                in 1853. He must have been about nine years old at this time, Albert about seven, Eduard
                                six, Theodor four, and Richard two.
                     
                        8 Dr. von Donhoff arrived in 
                                    Louisville
                                 during 1840. Stierlin devotes a paragraph of thirteen lines to him on page
                                92 of his history of the German element entitled Der Stoat Kentucky und Die
                                    Stadt Louisville.
                  
                         they cooked porridge for him. Eduard baked cornbread and
                        fried bacon. The fireplace lay full of ashes up to the floor. In the coffee pot were the grounds
                        from the first day. The dishes had never been washed. And yet all went well. The children must
                        have had a special guardian angel. The Dinkelackers, as well as the Kiederles and Rueffs
                        criticized themselves for not having looked after the children. But the latter did not even know
                        that I had gone away. Furthermore, no one knew that Baeble had acted so stupidly.
                    First of all I had to pick up Richard. When he saw me, he first really missed me. Mr. Dinkelacker
                        and the young man began to clean up. They hardly knew where to start. The young man took ten to
                        twelve buckets full of ashes out of the fireplace before the fire could be stirred. I had to
                        attend to the food. Fortunately, I had brought along coffee and such things. About two
                        o'clock house and children looked respectable again. The gentlemen left late in the
                        evening.
                    Papa became the partner in an apothecary of a very prominent physician, Dr. Pyles, at the corner
                        of Preston and Jefferson Streets [in 
                     Louisville,
                                Kentucky
                  ]. For months at a time he
                        could not come home. Things could not go on this way. I had to hire people for plowing. The
                        school lasted only for a short period and was too far away. Also in other ways we had to put up
                        with a lot, for we were no farmers.9
               
                    
                  
                     9 During the early part of December, 1864, Mrs. Tafel held an auction
                            and with her children joined her husband in 
                                Louisville
                            . The remainder of the autobiography relates the story of their lives in this
                            city. They made 
                                Louisville
                             their home and became one of the very prominent families there.
               
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Letters from Fighting Hoosiers. Selected and Edited by Howard H. Peckham and
                    Shirley A. Snyder. Indiana in World War II, Volume II. (Indiana War History
                    Commission, 
                        Bloomington
                    , 1948, pp. xvi, 406. Portrait of Sgt. John H. Parks frontispiece and index.
                    $5.00.)
            The real nature of war is soon forgotten—if, indeed, it is ever apprehended—by
                    those not directly involved in it. Historians, however able and conscientious, cannot put its,
                    personal essence on paper. The hundreds of thousands of pages already published on the history of
                    the Second World War and the hundreds of thousands which may yet be devoted to it cannot easily
                    record what it meant to the individual caught in its midst. We have brilliant studies of military
                    and naval strategy, of diplomatic counterpoint, of political upheavals and debacles, of economic and
                    social changes, achievements, and catastrophes. These, however, are by their nature generalizations.
                    Even if they describe individual episodes, they usually involve masses of persons whose separate
                    identities are lost. Such is the inevitable limitation of the historian. In events which may have
                    had no generalized significance at the time to most of the participants, he must seek a pattern and
                    a meaning. Separated in time and space from these events, the reader cannot learn from most
                    histories, however excellent, how it felt to stand watch on deck in the freezing spray of an Arctic
                    night on the Murmansk run; or to carry a forty-five pound pack up a rough mountain trail in the New
                    Guinea jungle, over roots and fallen logs and across waist-deep streams, amidst swarming flies and
                    spiders "big enough to saddle and ride"; or to soak in an Italian foxhole for
                    weeks under grey skies, without dry clothes, living on cold K-rations, suffering from diarrhea, and
                    seeing one's buddies blown to bits in hours-long artillery barrages; or even to accustom
                    oneself to the dreary barracks life, the deadening physical exhaustion, the subordination to
                    loud-mouthed tryants, and the utter loss of individual dignity which was called basic training.
            What the historian has not been able to do, the novelist has attempted. A Norman Mailer or a John
                    Horne Burns can recreate the feelings and experiences of individuals with  compelling power. Nevertheless—however we may be moved by
                    the artistry of such a re-creation—we know in the back of our minds that we are reading
                    fiction. This, we tell ourselves, is like what happened to a lot of people, but it
                    isn't exactly what did happen to any real person.
            Now at last the gap between personal experiences and historical record has been bridged. It is a
                    great service by the Indiana War History Commission that the first volume actually published (though
                    the second numerically) in its history of Indiana during the Second World War is a volume of Letters from Fighting Hoosiers which tells us, in their own words, in a highly
                    personal way, how more than a hundred representative men and women of Indiana fared and felt during
                    the course of the war. The editors have selected 131 letters from more than thirty-five hundred made
                    available to them. Except for two articles by Ernie Pyle and a couple of other accounts written some
                    time after the events, the contributions are genuine letters to family or friends, not intended for
                    publication. Some, indeed, from men killed in battle, are so very personal that one realizes what a
                    sacrifice of privacy in grief has been made by the survivors in surrendering them to print.
            Literary merit, the editors say, was not the sole criterion in selection: sincerity and
                    representative distribution were important. Every branch of service is represented, including WACS,
                    WAVES, and the Red Cross; nearly every rank from private to general; every theater of war; and the
                    entire period of the struggle from Pearl Harbor to the months following V-J Day.
            These letters are the authentic voice of the American civilian in uniform. Some of the writers are
                    masters of the telling phrase, and some are addicted to the cliche. Some voice prejudices which the
                    war did not wear away, and some reveal great insight. Here you can find some Americans in foreign
                    lands indulging in a complacent feeling of national superiority, some making bitter and unfair
                    generalizations about other peoples on the basis of limited personal experience, some expressing
                    warm admiration for the qualities of our allies, and some showing keen interest in and shrewd
                    appraisal of the strange societies into which they have fought their way.
            Despite these differences of personality, temperament, outlook, and education, a certain community of
                    experience  emerges. War is the ultimate in horror, and the
                    military way of life is a bad way of life. These letters build up a picture of war, piece by piece,
                    until the total effect is almost unbearable. Here you have the boredom, the drab cheer-lessness of
                    barracks, the resentment of the new soldier—and of the seasoned one, too, often
                    enough—against arbitrary, unreasonable, and sometimes incompetent non-coms and officers;
                    the depressing grind of sixteen-hour KP; the idiocy of "inspection," and the
                    tragedy of a stray grain of dust discovered by an officer's white glove; the blistered
                    feet, the dusty roads, the hot uniforms under a blazing sun; the everlasting
                    "shots" for tetanus, typhoid, and other possible ailments; the
                    "slop" served as food on overcrowded British transports; the seasickness aboard a
                    tossing landing craft as you approach an enemy beach; the blisters that form on the hands on the
                    first day of digging foxholes and break on the second day and bleed on the third day; the long
                    artillery barrages during which you hug the stony ground or lie in a water-filled hole while your
                    friends are blasted into unrecognizable messes; the endless rain that soaks your clothes, which dry
                    out a little from your body-warmth at night if you can find a sheltered place to sleep, but get
                    soaked again the next morning; the helplessness under the strafing of enemy planes; the numbing
                    hours of guard duty at a frigid post; the fatalism that makes a flier starting off on a mission
                    wonder whether his "number" is up this time; the tension with which infantrymen
                    watch one of their fliers, his parachute caught on the tail of a burning plane, struggle to get it
                    loose until the flame sweeps across the cords and he plummets through space; the all-pervasiveness
                    of mud; the K-rations, the D-rations, the dehydrated eggs, the grey dehydrated potatoes with their
                    curious taste of corruption, the Spam, the Spam, the Spam!
            Here, of course, you also have perseverance, amazing courage, gaiety, the ability to find wry humor
                    in the grimmest situation, the tenderness which finds an object in the company pup, more spoiled
                    than a colonel's mistress at the Hotel Aletti. Yet all the qualities which held our men
                    together and brought them—or the survivors—victory cannot make us forget the
                    unspeakable grimness of war. One of the most painfully realistic battle accounts I have ever read is
                    in this book: the simple story of a man caught with a few comrades in a small town during the Battle
                    of the  Bulge. His straightforward narrative is replete with
                    horrible details:
            "Two of the boys were still there, blown to Kingdom Come by an 88. I looked at them, but
                    didn't recognize either one. Tupper told me who they were. I still couldn't
                    recognize them. … I remember one rifle which had part of a man's forearm blown
                    into the stock. … The pig went a little farther and started munching on a German body.
                    … We went to sleep [in a basement] immediately and were awakened by Tupper who told us
                    before we were fully awake that we were going out and dig in in front of the town. I chocked back
                    some tears and told him this was suicide, but the officers were back in the town now and they wanted
                    a place to sleep. The basement we were in looked pretty good to them and they started gloating over
                    it before we were out."
            There is nothing specifically Hoosier about this book. It is a book about Americans, who might have
                    come from any state in the Union. They faced death, and some of them met death, with a courage which
                    knows no boundary. Every American should read them at least once a year, and should spend some time
                    contemplating the frontispiece, a superb photograph of a G. I. who combines the utter weariness of a
                    Bill Mauldin figure with the tragic dignity of a Rembrandt portrait. The book should be read, and
                    the portrait studied, with special intensity and prayerfulness by those persons who prate with
                    callous ease or even satisfaction about "the next war."
            
               Indiana University C. Leonard Lundin
         
         
            
               Old Cahokia, A Narrative and Documents Illustrating the First Century of its
                    History. Edited by John Francis McDermott. (
                  St.
                        Louis, Missouri
               , The 
                        St. Louis
                     Historical Documents Foundation, 1949, pp. 355. Illustrations, end maps, and index.
                    Cloth $4.50, paper $3.00.)
            This volume is, as its title suggests, a collection of documents which purport to illustrate the
                    first century of the history of Cahokia. The reason for its appearance is the desire "to
                    focus attention on Cahokia in commemoration of the two hundred and fiftieth anniversary of its
                    founding." To attain this end, five different writers edited various  sections of the documents, while an introductory chapter by the editor
                    himself is devoted to a sketch of Cahokia and its people. In the body of the book, Joseph P.
                    Donnelly, S.J., treats material relating to the founding and history of the Holy Family Mission, the
                    church burial records from 1784 to 1794, and letters from Monk's Mound,
                    1809–1812; the section on life in Cahokia as illustrated by legal documents,
                    1772–1821, is the work of Rose Josephine Boylan; the balance of the book includes the
                    letters of Charles Gratiot, 1778–1779, edited by Brenda R. Gieseker; documents on Fort
                    Bowman, 1778–1780, Charles van Ravenswaay; and two nineteenth century law cases, Irving
                    Dilliard.
            The book is open to some criticism on several points. In the first place, it is marred by far, far
                    too many typographical errors, a shortcoming which arouses a sense of caution—perhaps
                    unwarranted—toward acceptance of the accuracy of the contents as a whole. Then, too, the
                    table of contents would be more useful if it were completely paged; and a more sharp distinction
                    between the text and the long quotations, particularly in the first chapter, would have been helpful
                    to the reader. As far as subject matter is concerned, the scholarship is uneven, for some sections
                    are edited with excessive minuteness, while others leave unexplained questionable points.
                    Furthermore some historians would have been happier had the French been included whenever a document
                    was originally written in that language. Finally, the material on Monk's Mound dates a
                    decade and more after the end of Cahokia's first century, while no really good reason is
                    given for this departure from self-imposed time limits.
            The value of the documents will necessarily vary with the needs of the person consulting them. Anyone
                    who plans to write a detailed history of Cahokia will of course find them indispensable. The
                    material edited by the Reverend Mr. Donnelly will appeal to those who are interested in
                    ecclesiastical history, while people attracted to social aspects will like Miss Boylan's
                    section. Military and economic historians might be able to use the documents on Fort Bowman as well
                    as the Gratiot letters, the correspondence of a trader at Cahokia during the American invasion. A
                    writer interested in an overall picture of the transition from French to American domination will
                    find material scattered throughout the book. In general, the documents add little of importance  to historical knowledge. Aside from their inherent interest and
                    the special uses pointed out above, perhaps the chief contributions of the book lie in its addition
                    to the total store of printed documents available to the historian and in the fact that it contains
                    in compact form Cahokian documents held in widely separated locations.
            
               Indiana University Frances Krauskopf
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Franklin
                        , Jonathan Williams and William Pitt. A Letter of January 21, 1775. By Bernhard
                    Knollenberg. (
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana University Library Publications, No. I, 1949, pp. 24. $1.00.)
            The publication of this brochure marks the initial step in disseminating to the public a knowledge of
                    the rich special collections of the Indiana University Library. The proposed series, supervised by
                    Robert A. Miller and Cecil K. Byrd, is "designed to make better known to students the
                    source materials in the Library." The core of this pamphlet is a letter written by Jonathan
                    Williams, Benjamin Franklin's great-nephew, describing the debate in the House of Lords,
                    January 20, 1775, in which William Pitt, Earl of Chatham, proposed "that immediate orders
                    may be dispatched to General Gage for removing His Majestys Forces from the Town of 
                        Boston
                    ." In his introduction Bernhard Knollenberg describes the background of this
                    "crucial moment in British and American history" particularly as it relates to 
                        Franklin
                     and Chatham.
            The letter is of interest to Anglo-American historians as a supplement to 
                        Franklin
                    's "Account of Negotiations in 
                        London
                    " and as a capable report of the debate in which Chatham played the leading
                    role. Dr. Knollenberg's assertion that it is "superior in terseness and
                    vivacity" to the reports of Josiah Quincy, Jr., and Hugh Boyd is not necessarily proof of
                    its accuracy. The manuscript serves rather to strengthen the phraseology of 
                        Quincy
                    's report by linking it more closely with Boyd's thus lending more
                    authority to Chatham's comments on the Continental Congress and supplementing 
                        Quincy
                    's version of the opening sentences which Boyd missed. At the same time it
                    corroborates portions of the version printed by George Kearsley (The speech of the
                        right honourable the Earl of Chatham) which was withdrawn  at that speaker's request. Correlation and comparison of these
                    and several other extant reports will be of value in clarifying not only Chatham's
                    statements, but those of succeeding speakers in the debate.
            Dr. Knollenberg's introduction suffers in that he did not see fit to consider the problem in
                    the light of English politics. The significance of Chatham's actions should be read with an
                    eye to Horace Walpole's jibe of "ridiculous" and Edmund Burke's
                    judgment that "more would have been in the minority, if Lord Chatham had thought proper to
                    give notice of his motion to the proper people." The division on the motion is given as
                    18–77, an error possibly derived from the 
                        Quincy
                     report. Similarly, the editor has retained the manuscript spelling of
                    "Shelden" for John Selden. A misplaced emphasis upon the danger in reporting
                    parliamentary debates is based upon references which do not apply to the period under discussion,
                    and in any case ignores the actual conditions in 1775.
            These minor flaws hardly detract from the interest and contribution of the manuscript here offered to
                    the academic world. With a wide variety of material to draw upon, further "Indiana
                    University Library Publications" will be awaited with anticipation.
            
               Indiana University Robert R. Rea
         
         
            
               The Southern Colonies in the Seventeenth Century, 1607–1689. By
                    Wesley F. Craven. A History of the South, edited by Wendell H. Stephenson and E.
                    Merton Coulter, Volume I. (
                  Baton Rouge, Louisiana
                State University Press and the
                    Littlefield Fund for Southern History of the University of 
                        Texas
                    , 1949, pp. xv, 451. Illustrations and bibliography. $6.00.)
            The author of the first volume of this ten-volume history of the South is a native Southerner, a
                    professor of history at 
                        New York
                     University, and an editor and author of other volumes in the colonial field. His Dissolution of the 
                            Virginia
                         Company appeared in 1932, An Introduction to the History of
                        Bermuda in 1938, and The Journal of Richard Norwood, Surveyor of Bermuda
                    (edited jointly with Walter B. Hayward) in 1945. The opening statements in the preface also help in
                    understanding the author's viewpoint. "To write  of the South when there was no South is a task not without difficulties. The men and women whose
                    story is recounted in the following pages were not Southerners; in fact, they did not think of
                    themselves even as Americans. They were Europeans and, for the most part, Englishmen."
            In the opening chapter, Craven points out that the Spanish were the pioneers who found the Southern
                    route across the Atlantic and whose occupation of the West Indies and 
                        Florida
                     established methods and techniques which others must follow to be successful in the New
                    World.
            Considerable emphasis is placed by the author upon the work of the elder Hakluyt in his
                    "Notes" on colonization as influencing the activities of the English throughout
                    the period. The younger Hakluyt is credited with having kept alive among Englishmen an interest in
                    the New World in the late years of the sixteenth century. In the founding of 
                        Virginia
                    , there were close connections with her sister colony of Bermuda. The 
                        London
                     Company tried repeatedly to further the interests of its colony. It permitted the
                    establishment of a representative assembly and adopted an extensive economic program both of which
                    are closely associated with the name of Edwin Sandys. During the interregnum the 
                        Virginia
                     assembly secured the power of the purse, while the development of local government gave
                    much influence to the leading planters in the county court and in the House of Burgesses.
            Although "the 
                        Maryland
                     charter entrusted to Lord Baltimore prerogatives that had been denied any one for
                    approximately a century," he prepared "a very fertile field indeed for the growth
                    of a political tradition emphasizing individual liberty."
            The founding of Carolina was closely associated with the desire of the English government to
                    diversify the products of the empire. The Fundamental Constitutions, although unsuited to America
                    included the ideas of practical political leaders of Seventeenth Century England.
            Bacon's Rebellion is presented as due to disregard of the problems of the people of the
                    backcountry particularly in matters of defense against the Indians, to the special privileges of the
                    ruling class, and to the impetuosity of Nathaniel Bacon. The strengthening of imperial and
                    proprietary controls and the unsolved Indian problem caused 
                    much discontent which extended to the other colonies and which prepared the way for the revolution
                    of 1689.
            The author does not neglect the influences of the American surroundings upon the colonists, but
                    balances them skillfully with English origins and heritages. The office of sheriff, which had a long
                    history in 
                        England
                    , was not merely copied from English precedents but took character from conditions in
                    the New World. Even the 
                        Virginia County
                     Court was as much American as it was English.
            This volume is a very creditable product of the historian's skill and the
                    bookmaker's art. There are useful illustrations and a helpful selective and critical
                    bibliography. It is an excellent first volume for the series.
            
               Indiana University John D. Barnhart
         
         
            
               The Army Air Forces in World War II. Edited by Wesley Frank Craven and James Lea
                    Cate. Volume I, Plans and Early Operations, January 1939 to August 1942. (
                        Chicago
                    , The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1948, pp. xxxii, 788. Illustrations, maps, charts, appendixes, glossary, and
                    index. $5.00.)
            During the course of World War II literally scores of eye-witness stories and journalistic accounts
                    of campaigns, particular battles, or perhaps certain phases of civilian activity were produced for
                    popular consumption. Some deserve special praise for their merit, accuracy, and usefulness as
                    records of what happened. Following these, and after the war, came a number of personal accounts,
                    such as Dwight D. Eisenhower's Crusade in Europe, which, by virtue of
                    their narrators, were semi-official and authentic records of theaters of operation in which the
                    writers had served in primary roles.
            More ambitious and all-inclusive projects are now being undertaken to serve as official accounts of
                    the war as successfully waged by the major branches of the armed forces. These projected efforts
                    will be monumental in scope and service to the average layman whose access to military records and
                    documents is nil. Samuel Eliot Morison's History of United States Naval
                        Operations in World War II will reach thirteen volumes. The army's United States Army in World War II is scheduled for a stupendous undertaking that  will number nearly a hundred volumes. Of a similar nature is
                    the official chronicle of the army air forces, The Army Air Forces in World War
                    II. The latter will be recorded in seven volumes.
            In several respects there remains more virgin territory for the historian to explore in the realm of
                    military history than in many others. This is especially true in the field of military operations
                    conducted since the advent of the airplane. Though there are those who would take issue as to the
                    actual significance of the air arm of any military machine in modern warfare there is a distinct
                    need for someone to do for it what Karl von Clausewitz did for the ground forces in his Vom Kriege, and what Alfred Thayer Mahan did for naval forces in his The
                        Influence of Sea Power upon History, 1660–1783, and in subsequent works.
                    Meanwhile, however, such works as the one presently under consideration will present new vistas in
                    what is virtually a pioneer field for historians.
            The task of directing and editing these volumes was undertaken by Wesley Frank Craven of 
                        New York
                     University, and James Lea Cate of the University of 
                        Chicago
                    , both associated with the historical division of the air force, only with the
                    understanding that access to all necessary documents would be afforded the researchers and full
                    approval granted for their use and interpretation. This, obviously, was to prevent axe grinding,
                    biased interpretations, or glossing. The best tents of historical methodology have been observed in
                    its composition and construction. The book is "considered as a final report to the American
                    public on the activities of the AAF in World War II" (p. viii).
            The eighteen chapters of this volume are from the pens of ten authors all of whom were staff members
                    engaged in the air force historical program during the war. With a preface giving a brief
                    organizational account of the army's air branch following its establishment as the Aviation
                    Section of the Signal Corps in 1914, and a more detailed review of the 1939–1941 efforts
                    to make the air force ready for war, it deals primarily with the war in the air which began at Pearl
                    Harbor and Hickam Field. Richard L. Watson has written one of the best accounts on the Pearl Harbor
                    incident yet to appear. William A. Goss' chapter entitled "Air Defense of the
                    Western Hemisphere" is especially informational  on a
                    subject often otherwise slighted. After special chapters presenting problems on air defense in the
                    Netherlands East Indies, Australia, New Guinea, and China, the volume closes with preparations for
                    the air war against Germany and as such serves as an introduction for the second volume which is to
                    deal more specifically with that problem. The casual reader will not be able to enjoy this book as
                    easily as a best seller or as one done in a popular style, but if he is at all interested in air
                    force history he will find it readable, accurate, and interesting. After the first volume the
                    average reader will be more likely to be concerned with the one in which the story of his special
                    interest is presented. The editors and publishers are to be commended for an attractive,
                    informational, scholarly, and readable account.
            
               The 
                            Ohio
                         State University Dwight L. Smith
         
         
            
               The Bending Cross, A Biography of Eugene Victor Debs. By Ray Ginger.
                            (
                  New Brunswick, New Jersey
               , Rutgers University Press, 1949, pp. x, 516.
                    Bibliography and index. $5.00.)
            October 20, 1926, was a sad occasion for the working-man. ‘Gene Debs had died! No doubt
                    his many friends remember the words: "Let the people take heart and hope everywhere, for
                    the cross is bending, the midnight is passing, and joy cometh with the morning." Ray
                    Ginger, a candidate for the Ph.D. in American Culture at Western Reserve University, has written the
                    biography of Debs in accordance with the sympathy and sentiment expressed in the above question. The
                    title of the book is entirely appropriate, and it is illustrative of the colorful life of an
                    outstanding man.
            Ginger's life of Debs is an example of the new school of "scholarly"
                    writing for the general public. The advocates of this method of writing would seem to approve of a
                    semi-literary style which is all inclusive, with few or no footnotes to disturb the reader. The
                    author, in a typical mid-western spirit, uses first names indiscriminately, particularly of
                    Debs' parents, throughout the book. Moreover, numerous details garnered from documents,
                    letters, memories of those who knew Debs intimately or remotely have been  included in this biography. Unfortunately, the author is neither a
                    master of trivia nor adept at the art of subtly qualifying statements of judgment. The difficulty in
                    this kind of writing is, with its interminable data, in enticing the reader to stay to the end of
                    such a lengthy and often tedious book.
            The reader is obliged to search for the larger significances. The table of contents is non-revealing.
                    One might be inclined to ask: What are the relationships between each of the four topics listed in
                    the table of contents and the subject of the biography? These relationships could be clarified by
                    the use of chapter headings throughout the book.
            Actually, however, the biography is interesting—if one disregards the occasional illogical
                    paragraphs and inconsistencies in the style.
            Ginger's review of the entire labor situation in the crucial period of the 1880's
                    is informative. He explains in detail the reasons for the change in Debs' attitude toward
                    the use of strikes. Debs' managerial ability in the Great Northern Strike as well as his
                    skillful baiting of Governor Knut Nelson is well done by the author. Ginger has carefully evaluated
                    the significance of the Pullman strike and Debs' subsequent conflicts with the federal
                    authorities.
            Debs' part (1905–1907) in the radical organization of the I.W.W. and in the
                    dramatic struggles among the numerous leftists and labor leaders is related rather well. Some new
                    information is presented relative to the Haywood-Pettibone-Moyer vs. 
                        Idaho
                     case. And the reasons given for Debs' espousal of the I.W.W. principles as
                    well as for his withdrawal from that organization in 1908 are worth noting. Contrary to
                    Ginger's idea, however, the manner in which Debs dropped his membership from the I.W.W.
                    seems to have been characteristic of the man. The latter never hated those who disagreed with him
                    but only the principles for which they stood. Yet, Ginger injudiciously affirms that Debs intensely
                    disliked not only Wilson but Samuel Gompers as well. The author, however, does not seem to think
                    that it is possible to separate hatred of personalities from hatred of their actions. Apparently
                    Eugene Debs' great love for humanity permitted him to do so.
            In contenting himself with sheer biographical narrative, Ginger falls somewhat short of the
                    scholars' goal. The book  is neither analytical in
                    quality nor judicious in quantity. The style is verbose, and in places it is colloquial and
                    ungrammatical. The author, however, shows that he is capable of being objective. One example of his
                    objectivity is shown by his portrayal of Mrs. Kate Debs. This is especially commendable in view of a
                    recent novel in which the wife of Debs is grossly misrepresented.
            A further criticism of the book is that by giving all available facts and impressions about Debs it
                    tends to obscure vital issues. There is no doubt, on the other hand, that this biography does supply
                    the data out of which balanced conclusions can be deduced. These possible conclusions would be
                    particularly relevant to present-day problems such as strikes, suppression of opinion, and
                    intolerance.
            
               Cedarville College Gladys M. Anderson
         
         
            
               Europe since 1914 in its World Setting. By F. Lee Benns. (
                        New York
                    , Appleton-Century-Crofts, Inc., 1949, seventh edition, pp. xx, 770, 103. Select
                    bibliography, maps, illustrations, and index. $5.00.)
            The demand for textbooks in recent and contemporary history continues to challenge historians to keep
                    their writing up to the minute. Consequently the question arises as to whether such history can be
                    as objective as that which awaits further sources of information and the attainment of proper
                    perspective. Furthermore, by the time such a book is off the press new events often overshadow what
                    was the latest information at the time the writer completed his manuscript. Despite the criticism of
                    works in this category, it must be admitted that there is excellence in many of them, and that few
                    historians equal and none surpass Dr. Benns in his capacity to produce a text that is so up to date
                    and at the same time so free from bias.
            The seventh edition of Europe since 1914 compares very favorably with the sixth.
                    For one thing, it is much better proportioned. With almost one hundred additional pages, the
                    revision begins on page 490 effecting a drastic reduction of about eighty-five pages in the story of
                    the second world war; this welcome change makes possible a much more comprehensive treatment of the
                    second postwar period without  making the book unwieldly. The
                    maps and illustrations are the same except for one picture and for some rearrangements and, of
                    course, for additions for the second postwar period; as in previous editions, they are very well
                    chosen. Two tables of questionable value have been omitted. The bibliographies for each chapter are
                    well selected; additional references have been inserted in the older chapters, and those in the new
                    chapters are of equal fitness. The problem of keeping up to date is illustrated in the omission of
                    the Goebbels Diaries in the section on Germany during the war—doubtless
                    this is a matter of the time of publication.
            The quality of the seventh edition is in keeping with that of the preceding ones. Dr. Benns'
                    lucidity of style has made the work understandable to an unusual degree. His freedom from bias, even
                    from undertones of prejudice, is more conspicious in this than in the preceding edition. Some might
                    find fault with the absence of any particular interpretation, on the ground that some students may
                    be lost in the array of facts that such a work must necessarily present. But from the viewpoint of
                    the reviewer, this policy increases the objectivity of the work.
            In fact, it would be difficult to take issue with Dr. Benns on either his selection or organization.
                    In the seventh edition he has made use of new sources of information to clear up such points as the
                    failure of Anglo-Russian conversations in 1939 and the full provisions of the Russo-German
                    agreements of that same summer. His attempt to keep up to the minute has quite naturally left some
                    generalizations up in the air, as on page 750 concerning the probable future status of India. His
                    topical arrangement of the second world war might be criticized: while undoubtedly the narrative of
                    the European phases through the surrender of Germany, followed by a history of the Far Eastern War
                    from 1941 to 1946, has the advantage of an unbroken and clear-cut treatment, cross currents are not
                    quite so clear. This task, however, may well be that of the instructor rather than the writer. Dr.
                    Benns' treatment of the controversial field of recent and contemporary European history has
                    again been very adequate; students and teachers will await with anticipation an eighth edition of
                        Europe since 1914.
            
               DePauw University Coen Pierson
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            Genealogy of the Hensel, Bickel, Rupp, and Seitz Families of 
                        Franklin
                     and Webster Townships, 
                        Harrison County
                    , Indiana
            Frederick Porter Griffin*
            
            Anna Catharina Müllerin was born October 15, 1783, of Lutheran parents on the border
                    between France and Germany. The given names of her parents are not known. About 1805 she was married
                    to Johannes Hensel (or Henzel). The Johannes Hensel family resided in western Germany in the
                    Province of Hessen, village of Bergheim. They attended the Lutheran church in the village. Three
                    daughters were born to them during their residence at Bergheim: Anna in 1807, Elizabetha in 1810,
                    and Catharina in 1818.
            Sometime prior to 1834 Johannes Hensel died. By this time his family had received letters from German
                    and French immigrants who were residing in the United States. These friends from across the ocean
                    were writing back to their friends and relatives in Germany telling them of the vast resources in
                    their new home. Often the people in Germany had food shortages—some died from starvation.
                    These letters from the United States told of a land of plenty—where the thrifty could own
                    their own land and could raise more than enough for themselves.
            As more and more letters from the United States brought favorable reports of the living conditions
                    there, the three Hensel girls decided to leave their native land and immigrate to the United States.
                    By this time the two oldest girls had married and had families of their own. Anna, who had married
                    Conrad Bickel, was the mother of three children: Conrad, Johannes, and Anna. Elizabetha had married
                    Johannes Rupp and had one son, Heinrich. The youngest daughter was nineteen and unmarried. The three
                    girls persuaded their mother to make the trip to America with them. They disposed of what personal
                    property they could not take with them and had the necessary papers for the journey filled out by
                    August, 1837. Early the following 
                  
                     * Frederick Porter Griffin is an instructor in Corydon High
                            School, Corydon, Indiana.
               
                     month they boarded a sailing vessel for 
                        New York
                    . On the voyage over, Anna Hensel Bickel's oldest son, Conrad, became sick and
                    died; he was buried at sea. Upon arriving in 
                        New York
                    , the party continued their journey until they reached the homes of German friends in
                            
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               . The trip was completed to 
                        Louisville
                     by mid-December, 1837. Here the men secured employment as gardeners. On January 1, 1838
                    the youngest daughter, Catharina Hensel, was married to Johannes Seitz. Elizabetha Hensel, who had
                    been married in Germany wanted her marriage recorded in this country and so appeared with her
                    husband Johannes Rupp before George Brandan, justice of the peace, and repeated her marriage vows.
                    (See 
                        Jefferson County
                     Marriage Records, 
                        Louisville
                    .)
            
               
                        Louisville
                     was only to be their temporary home until each could look around for a suitable farm to
                    buy. By 1839, the two sons-in-law, Johannes Seitz and Johannes Rupp, had selected farms in 
                        Franklin
                     Township, 
                        Harrison County
                    , Indiana, about fifteen miles west of 
                        Louisville
                    . This land had previously been settled by English people, but a few French and German
                    immigrants had bought farms in the neighborhood. The latter followed their own customs and spoke
                    their native tongue. This apparently annoyed the English and more and more of them offered their
                    farms for sale. These were immediately purchased by German immigrants. Thus during the period from
                    1830 to 1850 practically the entire population of eastern 
                        Harrison County
                    , from Lanesville to New 
                        Middletown
                    , changed from English to German.
            After moving to 
                        Harrison County
                    , the Hensel daughters and their families attended the St. Paul Evangelical Lutheran
                    Church in western 
                        Franklin
                     Township. This church was better known as Siegwalds. Here they worshipped for almost a
                    decade until the pastor who was then serving the church wanted the congregation to change to another
                    denomination. These German settlers had been reared in Lutheran churches and were not to be easily
                    persuaded to change. So during the latter part of the 1840's the Bickel, Rupp, and Seitz
                    families and many of their friends withdrew their membership from the Siegwald Church and commenced
                    worshipping in homes throughout their community. These services were often conducted in the home of
                    Conrad and Anna Hensel Bickel or in the home of John Gimble. When no itinerant  Lutheran pastor was available, one of the men of the congregation would
                    read the scripture and conduct the service by reading from Arndt's True Christianity or
                    from one of Martin Luther's sermons. Soon this group organized themselves into a
                    congregation known as St. Peter's Evangelical Lutheran Church, and plans were made to erect
                    a church building.
            On May 31, 1851, Thomas Enfield (or Infield) and wife, Sarah, deeded one acre of land to John Seitz,
                    John Rupp, and Frederick Ellwanger, trustees of the Evangelic Lutheran Church St. Peter. Henry Rupp,
                    son of John Rupp, went around the community to notify all the members of the log rolling for the new
                    church. With the help of a team of oxen, the trees were felled and logs rolled together to erect the
                    building which was 24 by 36 feet. This log structure remained standing until 1920. It was located
                    near the front or east of the present cemetery.
            Seven years later John Rupp and his wife deeded part of their farm for a parsonage. A further
                    purchase of land adjoining the cemetery was made on March 14, 1879, from Jacob Richert, Sr., and
                    wife. This was conveyed to Jacob Richert, Sr., John Richert, and John Bickel, Sr., trustees of the
                    church. This is the land on which the present brick church building was erected; this building was
                    dedicated on May 26, 1881.
            After the erection of the brick structure, the old log church continued to be used for school
                    purposes. Here the pastor taught the children to read and to write the German language. The children
                    also learned the catechism, songs, and scriptures in German. That language was used in the
                    confirmation service until about 1898. Preaching services continued in German until about 1917 when
                    the sentiment growing out of the First World War caused its discontinuance.
            This first log church was very plain and simple—no bell or belfry—one double
                    door but no windows in the front. There were three windows on each side. The ceiling was low and the
                    benches straight and plain. The backs of the benches had a drop-leaf table arrangement which could
                    be raised on school days so that the children would have a place to study and write. An isle led
                    down the middle of the church to the altar and pulpit which was on a low platform.  A little organ which was pumped by foot furnished the music.
            From the time the Hensels came to America, Anna Catharina Hensel, the mother, resided in the homes of
                    her daughters and sons-in-law. The major part of her time was spent with her daughter, Mrs. Conrad
                    Bickel. It was here that she died on February 7, 1862 in her 79th year. The stone on her grave, just
                    north of the first church building, was inscribed in German: "Hier Ruht Catharina John
                    Hen-sel's Ehe Frau Geboren Am 15 Oct. 1783 Gestorben Am 7 Feb. 1862."
            Although Catharina Müllerin Hensel died in 1862 her descendants have continued to
                    perpetuate St. Peter's Church. Through her three daughters, her descendants have increased
                    and multiplied until it would be safe to draw the conclusion that all during the history of St.
                    Peter's the majority of its members have been descendants of this Catharina
                    Müllerin and her husband Johannes Hensel. It is then quite proper that she lie buried in
                    the churchyard at St. Peter's where she has kept the spiritual light burning down through
                    many years through her children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, and those who follow after.
            Descendants of Conrad and Anna (Hensel) Bickel 
                        Anna, the oldest daughter of Johannes and Anna (Müllerin) Hensel, was born June
                            22, 1807 in Germany, and died Jan. 19, 1897 in Webster Township, 
                                Harrison County
                            . She was married in Germany to Conrad Bickel who was born Nov. 18, 1806 and
                            died Feb. 12, 1876. Both are buried in St. Peter's Lutheran Church Cemetery. Upon
                            arriving in the United States they lived in 
                                Louisville
                             for a year, and then (on Jan. 23, 1839) purchased from Daniel Row 80 acres of
                            land in the southeast corner of 
                                Franklin
                             Township, 
                                Harrison County
                            .
                        Conrad Bickel was a shoemaker and made leather boots, ladies' shoes, and
                            children's footwear for the people of his community. He had his work bench at his
                            home and people came from miles around to be measured for shoes or boots. All the stitching
                            and leather work was done by hand over wooden shoe lasts.
                        Conrad and Anna Bickel had five children:
                        
                     1. Conrad, Jr. died on the way to the United States
                     2. Johannes, b. Nov. 17, 1826; d. Feb. 28, 1899; m. Louisa Richert, daughter of Jacob
                                and Catharine (Foreman) Richert, Feb. 24, 1851. Her death occurred Dec. 19, 1883, age
                                50. Johannes and Louisa Bickel had 13 children: 
                           a. Johannes Conrad 1852–1855
                           b. Johannes Friederick 1854–1879; married Mary Lottich
                           
                           c. Katherine Elizabeth 1856–1931; married John Seitz, son of
                                        Johannes and Catherine (Hensel) Seitz
                           d. John George 1859–1927; married Anna Wernert
                           e. Catherine Marie 1860–1898; married John Miller
                           f. Marie Louise 1863-; married Jacob Schneider
                           g. Henry William 1865–1946; married Sophia Haken
                           h. Jacob 1868-; married Ida Vogt
                           i. George Philip 1870–1880
                           j. Andreas Henry (twin) 1872–1880
                           k. Annie Elizabeth (twin) 1872–1943; married George Felker, son of
                                        Philip and Elizabeth (Seitz) Felker
                           l. Elizabeth Susana 1874-; married William B. Gleitz m. Daniel
                                        1877–1879
                        
                     
                     3. Annie Elizabeth, third child of Conrad and Anna Bickel, b. Dec. 3, 1828 in Germany;
                                d. Dec. 5, 1897. She was married to John Frederick Ellwanger on Dec. 3, 1846. He was
                                born in 
                                    Germany
                                 June 25, 1815, and came to 
                                    Louisville
                                 in 1824. He died on his farm in Webster Township, 
                                    Harrison County
                                , Feb. 10, 1903. Frederick and Annie Ellwanger had 12 children:
                           a. Johann F. 1847-; married Caroline Hoffield
                           b. Manual 1848–1848; buried in 
                                            Louisville
                                        
                           
                           c. Mary K. 1849–1916; married George H. Kraft
                           d. John Henry 1851–1925; married Laura Weller
                           e. Louise 1853–1855
                           f. Elizabeth K. 1856-; married William Lottich
                           g. Conrad G. 1858–1903; married Clemma Hunt
                           h. Catharine Marie 1860–1928; married Philip Lottich
                           i. George J. 1862–1927; married Carrie Zollman
                           j. William P. 1864-; married Annie Moesser
                           k. Susie Lydia 1868–1948; married Philip Richert
                           l. Charlotta F. 1870-; married William Voelker
                        
                     
                     4. George, fourth child of Conrad and Anna Bickel, b. Apr. 16, 1839 in 
                                    Harrison County
                                ; married Mrs. Emma Boone Moore, daughter of Craven and Sallie (Newman) 
                                    Boone
                                , on Feb. 5, 1882. She was born Feb. 21, 1855; died Aug. 28, 1928 and is
                                buried in 
                                    Louisville
                                . George Bickel served as deputy sheriff of 
                                    Harrison County
                                . One day he disappeared and was never heard of again. He and Emma Boone
                                Bickel had 2 children: 
                           a. Nellie; married ______ 
                                            Lancaster
                                        
                           
                           b. Claude
                        
                     
                     5. Catherine M., fifth child of Conrad and Anna Bickel, born June 16, 1844 in 
                                    Harrison County
                                ; died Feb. 27, 1896. Married John Richert, son of Jacob and Catharine
                                (Foreman) Richert, Feb. 12, 1863. John Richert was born Mar. 16, 1839; died May 16,
                                1919. He and Catherine lived on a farm near St. Peter's Church. They had 10
                                children: 
                           a. Elizabeth Richert 1863-; married John Scharf
                           b. Annie 1865-; married Frederick Schneider
                           c. Catharine 1868–1935; married Jacob Vogt
                           d. Susie 1870-; married Conrad Lottich
                           e. Frederick 1872–1938; married Pearl Brown
                           
                           f. Salome 1875-; married Robert Kirkham
                           g. Charles 1877–1913; married Edna Meyer
                           h. Minnie 1880-; married Edgar Nance
                           i. Adeline M. 1883–1940; married Benjamin Kirkham
                           j. Frank 1886-; married Mrs. Edna (Meyer) Richert
                        
                     
                  
                    
                
            Descendants of Johannes and Elizabetha (Hensel) Rupp 
                        Elizabetha, the second daughter of Johannes and Anna (Müllerin) Hensel, was born
                            Aug. 4, 1810 in Germany. She was married to Johannes Rupp, born the same year in the
                            Province of Hessen, Germany. After coming to the United States he made several purchases of
                            land in 
                                Franklin
                             Township, 
                                Harrison County
                            , and became a prosperous farmer. Elizabetha died Mar. 18, 1873, her husband on
                            Sept. 8, 1888; both are buried in St. Peter's cemetery. They had one son, Henry,
                            born Jan. 31, 1834, in Germany.
                        As Henry Rupp grew up, he developed a talent for woodworking and opened a shop where he made
                            and sold furniture to the people of the neighborhood. Much of his furniture is in use today
                            in the homes of the community. In addition, he made coffins and conducted an undertaking
                            business for fifty years. Henry Rupp married Catherine Marie Bickel, daughter of Weigand
                            Bickel, Nov. 22, 1855. She died Nov. 1878. They had 5 children:
                        
                     a. Elizabeth K. 1861–1864
                     b. Catherine 1863-1933; married Frank Dammann
                     c. Frederick J. 1866–1905; married Mary Gunthert
                     d. George J. 1869-; married Amanda Ehrhart
                     e. Anna Louise 1873–1874
                  
                        Following the death of his first wife, Catherine, Henry Rupp married Lisa (Elizabeth)
                            Katherine Friedericka Moesser on Jan. 15, 1880 in 
                        Shelby County, Kentucky
                     . She was born Jan. 20, 1855 in 
                                Cincinnati
                             of German parents and had lived in 
                                Harrison County
                            , Indiana, before moving to 
                                Kentucky
                            . Henry and Elizabeth had 5 children:
                        
                     a. Emma 1880-; married Charles E. Gleitz
                     b. Charlotte 1882-; married William Maurice Griffin
                     c. Charles J. 1884-; married (1) Mary G. Shuck; (2) Nora E. Bickel
                     d. Maria 1886-; married Grover C. Tindall
                     e. Minnie 1890-; married Robert J. Richert
                  
                        Henry Rupp died May 19, 1918, and his wife, Elizabeth Moesser Rupp, died Dec. 27, 1929. Both
                            are buried in the cemetery adjoining St. Peter's Lutheran Church.
                    
                
            Descendants of Johannes and Catherine (Hensel) Seitz 
                        Catherine M. Hensel, third daughter of Johannnes and Anna (Müllerin) Hensel, was
                            born in 
                                Germany
                             Aug. 24, 1818, and was married to Johannes Seitz, son of Philip Seitz, shortly
                            after her arrival in 
                                Louisville
                            . He was born in 
                                Germany
                             Feb. 1, 1815. They lived on a farm in 
                                Franklin
                             Township, 
                                Harrison County
                            . He died Apr. 25,  1878; Catherine died
                            eleven years later, Feb. 20, 1889. Both are buried in St. Peter's cemetery. They
                            had 5 children:
                        
                     1. Elizabeth Seitz 1845–1898; married Philip C. Felker in 1864. They had 4
                                children: 
                           a. Katie 1865–1903; married Jacob C. Lottich
                           b. George 1869-; married Annie Bickel, daughter of Johannes and Louise
                                        (Richert) Bickel
                           c. Charley J. 1873–1888
                           d. Lydia C. M. 1876–1912; married Edward H. Richert
                        
                     
                     2. Catherine 1848–1930; married Jacob Feig in 1866. They had 3 children:
                                    
                           a. John 1868–1911; married Annie Hauck
                           b. Charles 1872–1912
                           c. Tillie 1875-; married Charles Cromwell
                        
                     
                     3. Saraha A. Seitz 1851–1885; married John Scharf in 1875. They had 4
                                children, 3 of whom died while young. Amelia, born 1880, married Ira Shewmaker.
                     4. John C. Seitz 1853–1908; married Catherine E. Bickel, daughter of
                                Johannes and Louise (Richert) Bickel, in 1877. They had 6 children: 
                           a. Lydia 1878-; married John R. Kirkham
                           b. Matilda Marie 1880–1922; married John B. Meyer
                           c. Elizabeth 1883–1883
                           d. George 1884-1895
                           e. Clara 1887-; married Cecil Stewart
                           f. Clarence 1890–1936
                        
                     
                     5. Frederick Seitz 1856–1910; married Catherine Ackerman, daughter of
                                Michael and Jacobenna Ackerman. She died Nov. 5, 1945. They had 7 children: 
                           a. Charles J. 1880–1900
                           b. Laura 1882-; married Mose Proffitt
                           c. John 1884-; married Clara Richert
                           d. Elizabeth 1886-; married John Steele
                           e. Mary 1888-; married William Schoen
                           f. Margaret 1890-; married Charles Miers
                           g. Jennie 1891-; married Tony A. Wolfe
                        
                     
                  
                    
                
         
         
         
            Query 132
            I am compiling a directory or catalogue of the early 
                        Kentucky
                    , Indiana, and Illinois Floyd families and will appreciate hearing from any one
                    possessing any data on these families or knowing of possible possessors of any such information.
            I will share gladly and gratis any material already gathered with any interested Floyd.
            Albert R. Floyd Apartment 6 6033 Drexel Avenue 
                        Chicago
                     37, 
                        Illinois
                    
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
