
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 86, Issue 3, pages 247-348. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:86+issue:3+year:1990&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Politics in an Age of Crisis: America, and Indiana, in the Election of 1940
            Ross Gregory∗
            
            A half-century ago the American presidential election of 1940 took place during a time of exceptional
                    anxiety. Despite sporadic gains during the New Deal years of the 1930s the economy of the 
                        United States
                     continued to flounder. As rival forces in 1939 prepared for the coming political
                    battle, unemployment reached 17 percent. In the election year that followed, it stood at nearly 15
                    percent, depression statistics by anyone's count.1 Of
                    equal—in time greater—concern were events abroad. The Europeans were at it
                    again, Americans might have said somewhat wearily as they followed crisis-by-crisis developments of
                    the late 1930s. In September, 1939, came the explosion itself, the outbreak of war between 
                        Germany
                     and Britain and 
                        France
                    .
            Popular concern deepened as the political process labored on into 1940. Both war news and reports
                    about politics came in large doses. The war had not settled, as had been expected, into a tedious
                    repetition of the first world conflict, fought only a little more than twenty years earlier. After
                    dividing 
                        Poland
                     with the 
                  Soviet Union, Germany
                conquered most of western Europe, including 
                        France
                    , in the spring of 1940 and seemed poised to strike at Britain. Worried Americans
                    recognized these developments as serious business indeed, business that no longer involved only the
                    Europeans.
            The people of Indiana perhaps had better reasons than Americans as a whole for taking interest in
                    politics in 1940. Not far from the heartland of isolationist sentiment in the 
                        United States
                    , they kept special watch on policy dealing with the European war. In addition,
                    Indiana's electoral position was not insignificant. Although 
                  
                     ∗ Ross Gregory is professor of history, Western Michigan
                            University, 
                                Kalamazoo
                            . His most recent publication is America 1941: A Nation at the
                                Crossroads (
                                New York
                            , 1989).
                  
                     1 U.S., Bureau of the Census, Historical Statistics of
                                the 
                                    United States
                                , Colonial Times to 1957 (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1960), 73.
               
                     a far cry from 
                        New York
                    's forty-seven or 
                        Pennsylvania
                    's thirty-six, the state's fourteen electoral votes ranked it in the
                    top 25 percent in the electoral college. In all probability Indiana would be a swing state in the
                    national election. For reasons Indiana voters could scarcely have imagined, however, the national
                    political spotlight splashed across and then settled on their state as the election year progressed.
                    This particular attention stemmed mostly from Hoosier personalities in the political arena. It was
                    no secret that one man from Indiana desperately wanted to be president, even though he usually
                    ranked low on lists of possible contenders. What most people could not know early in the year was
                    that another Hoosier standing off stage would dash to the center and proceed to make the
                    presidential race.
            The Republicans approached the electoral season confident that a period of despair was at an end.
                    They had been humiliated during much of the 1930s, experiencing large defeats at the hands of
                    President F#2 D. Roosevelt and in Congress, where a virtual flood of Democratic legislation sailed
                    almost unhindered through the legislature. Then as the New Deal ran out of steam, the Republicans
                    began to bounce back. With stunning gains in the election of 1938—an improvement of eight
                    seats in the Senate and more than eighty in the House—they looked forward to bringing a
                    dismal decade to an end. After eight years of "that man" in the White House,
                    Republicans would not have to face Roosevelt again, or so it seemed; and even if by some miracle
                    they did, it should make no difference.
            Politics in Indiana followed the national trend. Holding the Republicans accountable for the
                    Depression, Indiana's voters supported Democrats for almost everything in the 1930s: for
                    the presidency twice, for the governorship twice, for both 
                        United States
                     Senate seats, for a minimum of eleven out of twelve in the House of Representatives,
                    and for most state offices. In addition, the Democrats in the 1930s produced a new political star,
                    Paul V. McNutt. As governor during the years 1933–1937, McNutt transformed government and
                    politics in Indiana, albeit not without controversy. His claims of accomplishment were also topics
                    of dispute, and critics constantly assailed his centralization of power, lavish use of patronage,
                    and blatant political ambition. The object of most attention had been the Hoosier Democratic Club,
                    better known as the "2 percent club," an organization of state employees who were
                    expected to contribute 2 percent of their salaries to the club. Charges of dirty politics did not
                    prevent the 2 percent club from functioning during the rest of the 1930s, largely to support the
                    political activities of what had become known as the McNutt machine.2
            
            
               
                  2 For politics in Indiana in the 1930s see a survey in the 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, October 10, 1940; James H. Madison, Indiana through
                            Tradition and Change: A History of the Hoosier State and its People,
                        1920–1945 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1982), 132–52; and Charles S. Hyneman, C. Richard Hofstetter, and
                        Patrick F. O'Connor, Voting in Indiana: A Century of Persistence and
                            Change (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1979), 111–13.
            
            
            Although the McNutt machine was powerful, it could not long control politics in Indiana. Benefiting
                    from internal Democratic friction, as well as from a suspicion of shady activity on the part of
                    Democrats, and from general disillusionment with New Deal economic programs, the Republicans did
                    well in 1938. Democratic Senator Frederick Van Nuys won reelection, but by scarcely 5,000 votes, and
                    Van Nuys was so conservative that he barely qualified as a Democrat anyway. Republicans took control
                    of the lower house of the state legislature and won seven of twelve seats in the national House of
                    Representatives. As with Republicans on a national level, Hoosier Republicans looked forward to the
                    larger election of 1940.3
            
            The real mystery of national politics, the issue that made the election of 1940 truly—and
                    possibly forever—unique, was whether or not Roosevelt would seek an unprecedented third
                    term in violation of a tradition that the president serve no more than twice. The mystery was
                    two-pronged: would Roosevelt run, and if he did, how would people react? The idea of a third term
                    aroused powerful emotions. Opponents spoke of greed, lust for power, even dictatorship, and of the
                    notion that something almost sacred was being lost. The fact that F#2 D. Roosevelt was the person
                    seeking such momentous change intensified voters' feelings. Still, Roosevelt remained
                    vastly better known than any Democrat; he had clearly demonstated polling power in the past. Would
                    he do more harm to the ticket by being a third-term candidate than he would benefit it through
                    personal appeal, by Roosevelt being Roosevelt?
            For many months the third-term issue remained a mystery. Roosevelt refused to make his intention
                    clear. Much of the speculation in 1938 and 1939 rested on an assumption that the president would
                    have had his eight years in office, thus the Democrats needed to consider a successor. Roosevelt at
                    this stage might have shared this assumption. He encouraged several individuals—his
                    advisor Harry Hopkins, for example, and Secretary of State Cordell Hull—to consider
                    making the race; and in private discussions he apparently gave many of them the impression that they
                    were his favorite. Political observers watched for signs that the president had picked his man for
                    1940.
            No Democrat stood more ready to exploit this political vacuum— or the appearance of
                    one—than Paul V. McNutt. McNutt seemingly had started running for the presidency as soon
                    as he left the Indiana governorship in 1937. He retained a political base in Indiana, and Hoosiers
                    still spoke of a McNutt machine (and a 2 percent club) after a new Democratic governor had taken
                    over. Not without influence in 
                        Washington
                    , McNutt accepted Roosevelt's appointment 
                  
                     3 See note 2 above.
               
                    
                    
                  PAUL V. MCNUTT
                  
                  Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     as high commissioner to the Philippine Islands in February,
                    1937. During his two years in Manila he kept a finger on American politics, largely through a close
                    ally, Frank McHale of 
                        Logansport
                    . When McNutt was home on a visit in February, 1938, McHale arranged what might be
                    called a political coming-out for the commissioner—a gala cocktail party in 
                        Washington
                    , D. C., to which 3,000 Democrats were invited. By the time McNutt returned home for
                    good in the spring of 1939, a McNutt-for-President Club had grown up in Indiana, and McHale had
                    taken steps toward a national political organization.4
            
            In support of his quest for the presidency McNutt could point to executive experience: a progressive,
                    albeit controversial governorship and two years as the 
                        Philippines
                    ' executive officer. He had a small but solid political base in Indiana, and as
                    former state and national commander of the American Legion, he remained popular with military
                    veterans. One military man who described himself as "rooting in the bleachers" was
                    his friend in the 
                        Philippines
                    , Douglas MacArthur.5 McNutt presented himself as a New Dealer but
                    no radical; "a liberal with his feet on the ground," as his friends said. With
                    round face, smooth skin that seemed perpetually tanned, silver hair that imparted wisdom more than
                    age (he would be forty-eight in 1940), McNutt had striking good looks. Secretary of the Interior
                    Harold L. Ickes called him "one of the handsomest men I have ever seen …
                        ."6 Perhaps the most that could be said about McNutt is that he
                    wanted the job intensely and would put forth much effort to obtain it.
            Political observers knew that without the president's blessing McNutt was at best a
                    darkhorse candidate. Devout New Dealers doubted his commitment to liberal principles, or perhaps to
                    any principles at all. Some could not forget his slowness in supporting Roosevelt at the Democratic
                    convention of 1932. McNutt's governorship had left a legacy of rumor, suspicion, and doubt.
                    His time in office had produced changes in Indiana's state government—notably in
                    the tax system and in reorganization—changes that had concentrated power in the
                    statehouse and especially in the governor's hands. The 2 percent club continued to operate
                    after McNutt left office, apparently to McNutt's benefit, and no effort to explain this
                    organization could remove the charge of unsavory politics. McNutt's association with
                    military organizations added to the appearance 
                  
                     4 I. George Blake, Paul V. McNutt: Portrait of a Hoosier
                                Statesman (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1966), 198–99; Marquis W. Childs, I Write from 
                                    Washington
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1942), 196.
                  
                     5 Douglas MacArthur to Paul V. McNutt, July 12, 1939, Paul V. McNutt
                            Papers (Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ).
                  
                     6 Entry for July 8, 1939, in Harold L. Ickes, The Secret
                                Diary of Harold L. Ickes: Vol. II, The Inside Struggle,
                                1936–1939 (
                                New York
                            , 1954), 679.
               
                     of a man greedy for power and gave rise to such labels as
                    "fuehrer" and "Hoosier Hitler."7
            
            In all, critics saw the McNutt presidential movement as based on splash and drive instead of
                    substance and legitimate claim to power. Men with stronger credentials in Roosevelt's
                    government—the true insiders in the administration—looked upon McNutt as a
                    pretender. They found his activities galling and viewed them as occasions for private jokes.
                    Postmaster General James A. Farley, who wanted the presidency himself, missed no opportunity to
                    ridicule McNutt, especially in the president's presence. Ickes referred to
                    McNutt's possible nomination as "terrible … the worst thing
                    … that could happen to the country."8
            
            McNutt's campaign reached a peak in the final half of 1939, a time when Roosevelt's
                    retirement still seemed fully possible. When McNutt returned to the 
                        United States
                     in June, his continuing status as the 
                        Philippines
                    ' high commissioner indefinite, McHale was hard at work sending out mailings
                    and planning, among other appearances, a public reception at Monument Circle in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In early July, Roosevelt, probably unintentionally, gave McNutt his largest boost by
                    appointing him head of the Federal Security Agency, a social service organization. The move sparked
                    huge interest in the press and suddenly turned McNutt into the most-talked-about person in 
                        Washington
                    . The president, so many stories ran, had at the very least brought the former governor
                    in for close and careful observation; at the most he had found his man for 1940.9 McHale sent back glowing reports as he traveled around the country. In November a Newsweek
                    survey of 
                        Washington
                     correspondents placed McNutt a close second to Roosevelt in a contest for the
                    nomination. Hull was a distant third. The euphoria of the time was best summarized in a message to
                    McNutt from his information director, Maurice Judd: "if the President does not run, you are
                        nominated."10
            
            The McNutt boom waned as quickly as it had developed. The surge of attention had provoked people
                    within the administration—partly because they objected to McNutt's candidacy,
                    partly because they believed it stood on a false premise. Ickes took it upon himself 
                  
                     7 William E. Wilson, Indiana: A History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1966), 125; Blake, Paul V. McNutt, 241–43.
                  
                     8 Quoted in James A. Farley, Jim Farley's Story:
                                The Roosevelt Years (
                                New York
                            , 1948), 214. For other remarks about McNutt see ibid., 215,
                            219, 255–56; Ickes, Secret Diary, II, 394, 682; Ickes, The Secret Diary of Harold L. Ickes: Vol. Ill, The Lowering Clouds,
                            1939–1941 (
                                New York
                            , 1954), 66, 74–75.
                  
                     9 Other reports, it must be said, `suggested that Roosevelt sought to
                            divert McNutt's career along a less ambitious course. Examples of editorial comment
                            appear in the McNutt Papers and in Blake, Paul V. McNutt,
                            246–48.
                  
                     10 Maurice Judd to Paul V. McNutt, September 21, 1939, McNutt Papers;
                            memo from Newsweek for McNutt, November 17, 1939, ibid.
                  
               
                    
                    
                  Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                    
                    
                  PAUL V. MCNUTT RETURNS FROM THE PHILIPPINES RALLY ON THE CIRCLE IN INDIANAPOLIS, 1939
                  Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                    
                    
                     to call a press conference and arrange to have a reporter,
                    Robert Kinter, question him about presidential candidates. This setting permitted Ickes to say
                    "reluctantly" that the president had revealed neither to him nor to anyone else a
                    special interest in McNutt and that McNutt's managers were making unsupported claims. In
                    days to come Ickes would congratulate himself on having "smashed,"
                    "manhandled," or thrown "a large-sized monkey wrench" into
                    McNutt's candidacy.11 While one cannot measure the truth of
                    Ickes's assertion, McNutt's standing in opinion polls slid sharply—from
                    a high of 21 percent and second place (assuming that Roosevelt did not run) at the end of July,
                    1939, to 6 percent and a distant fourth place on April 23, 1940.12
            
            McNutt in truth had virtually no chance to be nominated in 1940 unless he did receive the
                    president's endorsement. Roosevelt of course did not designate anyone as his successor, or
                    perhaps it could be said that he endorsed everyone. It is at least remotely possible that Roosevelt
                    all along wished to run again. He confided a clear intent to no one, preferring instead to
                    "divide and conquer," as James M. Burns put it. He encouraged Hull, Farley,
                    Vice-President John Nance Garner, Hopkins, McNutt, and several others and seemed to favor several of
                    them at one time or another.13 Throughout the entire prenomination season, to
                    the day—indeed the day after—he was nominated, Roosevelt kept open the option
                    of running or not running. In so doing he made it nearly impossible for another person to mount a
                    convincing campaign.
            The try for the third term was of course bound up with the war in Europe. The world changed with the
                    start of war in September, 1939, at the time when McNutt's campaign appeared most
                    promising. It changed again, drastically, in the spring of 1940 when Hitler conquered western Europe
                    and began to threaten Britain. Perhaps the war convinced Roosevelt to run—consensus has
                    it that it did—but even if it did not, the conflict gave a rationale, an excuse, for
                    running. It created a reason for setting aside what many people regarded as a major principle of
                    politics. Without the war, then, there likely would have been no third term.
            Thus by the spring of 1940 the first part of the third-term issue had become less mysterious.
                    Nonetheless, a small measure of uncertainty continued to exist: as late as a week before the
                    Democratic convention William Allen White insisted in his newspaper column that Roosevelt would not
                    make the race,14 and contending candidates were still not quite sure that their
                    efforts would be a waste of time. McNutt made thirty-two speeches in April and then 
                  
                     11 Ickes, Secret Diary, III, 81, 98.
                  
                     12 Hadley Cantril, ed., Public Opinion,
                                1935–1946 (
                                Princeton
                            , 1951), 612.
                  
                     13 James M. Burns, Roosevelt: The Lion and the Fox (
                                New York
                            , 1956), 411–12.
                  
                     14
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 7, 1940.
               
                     took three weeks' leave from his job to make an
                    extensive tour of the West. By this time it was difficult to tell if he was seeking the top spot on
                    the ticket or the vice-presidential nomination, which he also gladly would have accepted. He
                    formally pulled out of the presidential race at the end of May and urged the nomination of
                    Roosevelt; inasmuch as the president still kept his silence, however, McNutt held his options open,
                    apparently willing to take anything the Democrats had to offer.15
            
            McNutt's fading chances corresponded with the spectacular rise of another Hoosier. One could
                    question whether or not Wendell L. Willkie deserved to be classified as from Indiana. His roots were
                    there: raised in 
                        Elwood
                    , he married a girl from 
                        Rushville
                    ; education from bottom to top came from state schools, culminating with a
                    bachelor's degree and then a law degree from Indiana University. Then he left: to teach
                    briefly in 
                        Kansas
                    , to spend several years in 
                        Ohio
                    , and finally to serve as a corporation attorney in 
                        New York
                    . His appearance in politics had more to do with 
                        New York
                     and big business than with farms in 
                        Rush County
                     or anything commonly identified with Indiana. As president of Commonwealth and
                    Southern, a large utilities firm, Willkie was engaged during the mid-1930s in a hard struggle with
                    the Tennessee Valley Authority, which sought to absorb part of his company's property.
                    While he had to sell in the end, he extracted so large a price that some people proclaimed him a
                    winner; and in the process he established himself as a vigorous fighter, an eloquent and perceptive
                    defender of private enterprise, and a generally gracious contestant. By arousing the interest of
                    "movers" within the Republican party and by sparking his own thoughts about
                    changing careers, Willkie's quarrel with TVA became the avenue for his entry into politics.
            The emergence of a presidential boom, however, rested much on the man himself and, curiously, on his
                    lack of experience in politics. Willkie burst on the scene as a different cut of political
                    animal—honest, spontaneous, outspoken on everything. "A meteor,"
                    Marquis W. Childs called him, "fresh as paint …, innocent as a babe of any
                    political background."16 He gave off an excitement much different from that of his friend
                    and former classmate, the suave and sophisticated professional politician Paul V. McNutt. A huge
                    "bearlike" man, Willkie often appeared in a wrinkled suit and wilted shirt, his
                    hair out of control. Rather than detracting from his appeal, his inattention to personal grooming
                    became almost a mark of character: Willkie seemed a person of substance rather than style or
                    pretension, a real man of the people in spite of 
                  
                     15
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, May 31, 1940; an intinerary of the trip west appears in the McNutt
                            Papers.
                  
                     16 Childs, I Write from 
                                    Washington
                                , 198.
               
                    
                    
                  WENDELL L. WILLKIE 1940
                  Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     his title. And he gave the impression that he knew his
                    business; he was confident and positive. A believer in activist government, almost a New Dealer,
                    Willkie suggested that the Republicans could—and needed to—be more than a
                    bunch of naysayers.
            Willkie's candidacy benefited from a shortage of charismatic leaders in the Republican
                    party. In fact, Roosevelt had dominated politics to such an extent that no individual in either
                    party could attract a substantial national following. The leading Republicans of
                    1939–1940 were Thomas E. Dewey of 
                        New York
                    , who did best in the primaries, and Senator Robert A. Taft of 
                        Ohio
                    , who was popular with conservatives and in the South and West. Senator Arthur H.
                    Vandenberg of Michigan usually stood a distant third. No one could generate real excitement; each
                    leader had serious drawbacks. Dewey seemed wishy-washy on the large issues, unable to decide whether
                    to be a centrist or a conservative in ideology and an isolationist or an internationalist in regard
                    to the trouble in Europe. Besides, at thirty-eight, he was young and inexperienced (some observers
                    preferred to call him "Buster" Dewey), having held no post higher than county
                    attorney. Taft already suffered from the shortcomings that would plague his future efforts for a
                    presidential nomination: he lacked popular appeal, and he was cold, abrupt in speech, and more
                    conservative than the bulk of voters. While he probably appeared more isolationist than he was (he
                    did favor some form of aid for Britain), Taft left little doubt that keeping the 
                        United States
                     apart from a European war superseded any other consideration.17
            
            Willkie did not appear on the opinion charts at all until the end of April, 1940, two months before
                    the national convention; and then he polled only 3 percent.18 By that time,
                    however, several men with roots in eastern business circles, especially publishing, had begun a
                    Willkie presidential movement. The Cowles brothers, John and Gardner, publishers of newspapers and
                        Look magazine, had boarded the Willkie bandwagon, as had Samuel F. Pryor,
                    businessman and member of the Republican National Committee. Russell Davenport, managing editor of
                        Fortune, later resigned to work full time for Willkie, and young Oren Root,
                    Jr., had taken the first steps toward establishing what would become a large number of Willkie Clubs
                    of youthful volunteer boosters.
            Assisted by a growing circle of influential supporters, Willkie began to behave like a political
                    candidate. He spoke at gatherings that were carefully arranged by advisors. Articles by or about
                    Willkie appeared in The Saturday Evening Post, Fortune, Time, and 
                  
                     17 A good survey of Republican candidates appears in Robert A. Divine,
                                Foreign Policy and U.S. Presidential Elections, 1940–1948 (
                                New York
                            , 1974), 12–17.
                  
                     18 Cantril, Public Opinion, 610.
               
                     several other widely circulated magazines. He was a dazzling
                    contestant on the popular radio quiz show "Information Please." Willkie emerged
                    from these appearances as a champion both of private enterprise and of considerable governmental
                    activity—a humanitarian who could endorse much New Deal social legislation and still
                    attack its centralizing, stifling tendencies. In foreign policy he was an out-and-out
                    internationalist, prepared to aid enemies of 
                        Germany
                     with almost any measure short of war. Willkie's engaging personality shone
                    through it all: his campaign reflected the freshness and spontaneity of a man trying to make much of
                    not being a politician, the boldness of a man starting from so far back that he knew he had nothing
                    to lose.19
            
            Even though preconvention maneuvering had produced pledges of delegate support in eastern states, the
                    prospect of Willkie's winning seemed remote indeed. He had little power with party
                    regulars. Republicans could not ignore his liberal positions, nor, above all, could they accept that
                    most of his life he had been a Democrat, who had apparently shifted parties only in 1939.
                    "A Democrat heading the Republican national ticket?" a constituent wrote
                    Congressman Charles A. Halleck of Indiana. "Who ever heard of such a thing …
                        ?"20 Republicans as a rule did not object to a candidate with
                    business connections, but a utilities man, in view of the recent scandal involving Samuel Insull and
                    the industry's sorry reputation in general? Was this the time to have a man from utilities
                    speak for the party? Alfred M. Landon, Republican presidential candidate in 1936, believed that
                    Willkie was a comet that would burn out.21 Congressman Joseph W. Martin rejected
                    a request to place Willkie's name in nomination. As permanent chairman of the Republican
                    National Convention, Martin believed that he should remain uncommitted.
                    "Furthermore," he told Pryor, "I don't think your man
                    … has a chance."22
            
            The convention that began in 
                        Philadelphia
                     on June 24 produced, for a Republican gathering, unusual suspense and high emotion.
                    From a Republican perspective it might have been, as Martin later claimed, "the greatest
                    convention ever."23 Deeply sobering news from the war in Europe added
                    to the drama that unfolded. 
                        France
                     signed a humiliating peace; newspapers already wrote of a coming "battle of
                    Britain." Hitler was conquering Europe—a march of events that did not help the
                    prospects of a young 
                  
                     19 For a fuller description of Willkie's presidential
                            campaign, see Steve Neal, Dark Horse: A Biography of Wendell Willkie (
                                New York
                            , 1984), 45–79.
                  
                     20 Carl P. Harvey, "A 100% Republican," to Charles
                            A. Halleck, June 26, 1940, Charles A. Halleck Papers (Lilly Library, Indiana University).
                  
                     21 Donald R. McCoy, Landon of 
                                    Kansas
                                
                      (
                                Lincoln
                            , Nebr., 1966), 443.
                  
                     22 Joseph W. Martin, My First Fifty Years in
                            Politics (
                                New York
                            , 1960), 151.
                  
                     23 Joseph W. Martin, "The Greatest Convention Ever: I
                            Remember Willkie," The Saturday Evening Post, CCXXXIII (July 9,
                            1960), 21, 22, 80–82.
               
                     and inexperienced Dewey or of Taft, a man preoccupied with
                    domestic concerns, with no firm grasp on foreign policy. The course of the convention is a familiar
                    story: the speeches and meetings, the indication almost from the start that something was astir,
                    that this convention was going to be different. The convention hall was filled with spectators and
                    participants, and in the galleries at least they all seemed to be Willkie's people,
                    prepared to shout with deafening force, "We Want Willkie!" Delegates reported an
                    avalanche of messages urging Willkie's nomination. Even on the first day William Allen
                    White wrote in his column about a meeting out of control, "hog wild …, like a
                    democratic convention."24 There followed the nominations and
                    demonstrations, and through each session came more and louder shouts of "We Want
                    Willkie" from the balconies.
            What one might call the steamroller for Willkie developed out of a number of deliberate moves and
                    fortunate circumstances peculiar to the 1940 election year. Both the softness of support for the
                    leader, Dewey, and the inability of Taft to attract many new followers resulted from the
                    significance of the European war. Numerous "favorite son" candidates discouraged
                    an early rush to a front-runner, thus providing time for support to build around someone farther
                    back in the field. The movement for Willkie had crucial assistance from a few well-placed
                    professionals, who included John 
                        Hamilton
                    , chairman of the Republican National Committee; Pryor, who packed the galleries;
                    Governor Raymond Baldwin of 
                        Connecticut
                    ; and Governor Harold Stassen of 
                        Minnesota
                    , the keynote speaker who became Willkie's floor leader. Floor workers were on
                    hand to steer shifts in state delegations, as in the pivotal cases of Kansas and 
                        Michigan
                    . Chairman Martin, while not exactly a Willkie man, refused to permit adjournment after
                    a fifth ballot, a recess that might have allowed a stop-Willkie movement to form. Finally, the
                    atmosphere of that critical month and year fostered the idea that an exceptional time warranted an
                    exceptional candidate. If professionals on the floor made essential moves, the enthusiasm, the
                    noise, and the appearance of momentum came from the effort of amateurs.25 Walter
                    Lippmann called the movement for Willkie "as nearly spontaneous as anything that we have
                    ever seen."26 Arthur Krock referred to the nomination on the sixth
                    ballot as "a political revolution" and a "miracle."27
            
            
               
                  24
                        
                            Evansville
                         Courier, June 25, 1940; see also Martin, My First Fifty Years in
                            Politics,156–59.
               
                  25 Martin, My First Fifty Years in Politics,
                        158–59; see also Hugh Ross, "Was the Nomination of Wendell Willkie a
                        Political Miracle?" Indiana Magazine of History, LVIII (June, 1962),
                        79–100.
               
                  26
                        
                            Evansville
                        
                        Courier, June 26, 1940.
               
                  27
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Times, June 30, 1940.
            
            
            
               WENDELL L. WILLKIE, JOSEPH MARTIN, PERMANENT CHAIRMAN OF THE REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTION, AND EDITH WILLKIE AT CONVENTION HALL, PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA, JUNE 28, 1940
               Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            The selection of Senator Charles L. McNary of Oregon as a running mate represented traditional
                    politics, an effort to broaden appeal or to confuse the voters: in political terminology, to balance
                    the ticket. McNary's support for public power facilities might offset Willkie's
                    position as a private utilities magnate. McNary's identification with the West and with
                    rural America suggested that Willkie was perceived as a man from 
                        New York
                     (rather than Indiana) and from the ranks of business.
            Political observers differed as to how the selection of Willkie affected the issue of the third term.
                    While columnist Raymond Clapper argued that the Republicans' choice of "the
                    strongest possible" candidate meant that Roosevelt would have to run, Lippmann reached an
                    opposite conclusion, that selection of an internationalist and a man of Willkie's caliber
                    saved the nation from a "disaster of disunion and demoralization." A third term no
                         longer was necessary.28 In truth the
                    choice of an opponent made no difference. Although Roosevelt remained enigmatic to the end, he had
                    decided to run. The closest to an expression of intent came in a private disclosure to Farley on
                    July 7—one week before the Democratic convention—at the president's
                    home at Hyde Park, 
                        New York
                    . Roosevelt said that if chosen he could not refuse to serve.29
                    There remained only the matter of arranging a draft, of inducing the convention to demand that it
                    have Roosevelt. The president evidently gave no instructions and left details to his supporters
                    among the delegates gathered in 
                        Chicago
                    .
            The dramatic moment came on the second night of an otherwise listless and fussy convention when, at
                    the end of a speech, the permanent chairman, Senator Alben Barkley, read a statement from the
                    president that he had no "desire or purpose" to be a candidate and that all
                    delegates were free to vote for anyone they chose. There followed a few minutes of murmuring as
                    listeners tried to absorb and interpret what they had heard. Suddenly, over the loudspeaker came the
                    thunderous "voice from the sewer," 
                        Chicago
                     Mayor Edward Kelly's superintendent of sewers stationed deep in the basement
                    of the building chanting, "We want Roosevelt!" The shouts touched off a
                    demonstration that the 
                        New York
                     Times likened to "a madhouse in revolt." Throughout the celebration
                    the voice from the sewer continued to boom out a litany of acclamations: "
                        Chicago
                     wants Roosevelt … Everybody wants Roosevelt" and finally
                    "Willkie wants Roosevelt." The organ played "Happy Days Are Here
                    Again"; and when after an hour the cheering subsided, no one could doubt that the Democrats
                    had a candidate.30
            
            The need to pick a vice-presidential nominee briefly rekindled McNutt's hopes. The Hoosier
                    had come to the convention eager to be nominated for something. The vice-presidency offered the most
                    likely prospect, of course; but in view of Roosevelt's continued silence about his plans,
                    McNutt did not wish to close off a chance for the larger prize. McNutt's headquarters were
                    the most elaborate at the convention, with "three palatial rooms gaudily bedecked with
                    flags"; a 16-by-24-foot picture of Roosevelt, the largest in town; and in the midst the
                    candidate himself with "iron-gray hair … a chromium smile …, looking
                    altogether like a Percheron prancer stepping before the grandstand with blue ribbons in his curled
                    and braided tail." Signs said only "McNutt—Indiana."31
            
            
               
                  28
                        
                            Evansville
                        
                        Courier and Press, June 30, 1940; 
                            Evansville
                        
                        Courier, July 3, 1940.
               
                  29 Farley, Jim Farley's Story, 249.
               
                  30
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Times, July 17, 1940.
               
                  31
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, July 1, 15, 1940.
            
            
            
               JUST OF PAUL V. MCNUTT LOCATED OUTSIDE ALUMNI HALL, INDIANA UNIVERSITY MEMORIAL UNION, BLOOMINGTON
               
               A PERHAPS APOCRYPHAL YET FREQUENTLY TOLD STORY SUGGESTS
                            THAT SPACE WAS LEFT ON THE PLAQUE TO ADD THE INEVITABLE "PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES" TO MCNUTT'S LIST OF ACHIEVEMENTS.
               Photograph by Annalese Poorman; courtesy Indiana University News Bureau, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
            Roosevelt of course had a different idea. He picked his secretary of agriculture, Henry A. Wallace,
                    because, as the president explained it, Wallace was a true liberal, a New Dealer, and a dedicated
                    internationalist. The choice became one of the most unpopular in the recent history of presidential
                    elections—"a damned outrage," said Ickes. News of the
                    president's decision fostered surliness in delegates already displeased with management of
                    the convention. Many who believed that Roosevelt offered the best prospect of victory resented the
                    crude effort to make the nomination appear a result of popular demand. They could hardly tolerate
                    Wallace—both for the abrupt manner in which the choice came down and for Wallace himself.
                    Widely viewed as a strange man, a mystic, he had virtually no following among party professionals,
                    and to top it off he had been a Republican before entering the Roosevelt administration.32
            
            On Thursday, the night of the vice-presidential nomination, all the signals of a rising revolt were
                    in evidence. If the delegates could not truly defy the president's wishes, they at least
                    could express their anger. The names of several candidates, including McNutt's, came before
                    the convention, although all of them except for that of Congressman William Bankhead of Alabama were
                    withdrawn. McNutt's effort to remove his name from contention produced the greatest
                    excitement of the convention. Appearance of the handsome Hoosier at the podium sparked a thunderous
                    ovation. Each effort to speak provoked a new round of cheers. The tumult went on for twenty minutes
                    despite the efforts of McNutt and Chairman Barkley to quiet the crowd. "Here,"
                    said the 
                        New York
                     Times, "was the favorite of the house."33
            
            Although he behaved as a loyal party trooper, McNutt was crushed by Roosevelt's selection of
                    another man. He believed that without presidential intervention he would have been nominated on the
                    second ballot. Ickes, among other observers, agreed with this contention.34 The
                    case for McNutt as the popular choice is, however, less than compelling. Appearing in the convention
                    at the right spot and at the right time, he became the force around whom disgruntled delegates could
                    coalesce. Cheers for McNutt in truth were shouts of protest at Roosevelt. Had there been no
                    presidential involvement, other candidates and other ways for the convention to express its wishes
                    on the vice-presidency would have emerged. As matters stood, however, the people of Indiana had one
                    man on the national ticket and at least could claim that they had come close to a second.
            
               
                  32 Ickes's remark and other expressions of discontent appear in
                        Farley, Jim Farley's Story, 261, 293–301.
               
                  33
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Times, July 19, 1940.
               
                  34 Ickes, Secret Diary, III, 261; Samuel I. Rosenman,
                        one of Roosevelt's speech writers, suggests a similar view in Working with
                            Roosevelt (
                            New York
                        , 1952), 215.
            
            
            
               FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT ON AN "INSPECTION TRIP" TO THE NORFOLK NAVY YARD, NORFOLK, VIRGINIA, JULY 29, 1940
               Courtesy F#2 D. Roosevelt Library, Hyde Park, 
                            New York
                        
               
            
            
            Several features of the 1940 campaign suggest ways that politics has changed in the past fifty years.
                    In the first place the Republican party convention nominated a candidate rather than merely
                    ratifying a decision already made. The nomination came out of a genuine contest in the hall, and but
                    for an incumbency the Democrats well might have repeated the process. A number of factors
                    contributed to this development: a shortage of outstanding Republican candidates, the failure of
                    many state nominating procedures to mandate binding decisions, and the prevailing
                    practice— apparently dead a half-century later—of touting "favorite
                    sons" in the hope of expanding a state's influence in national politics. In the
                    second place the term liberal in 1940 still carried a favorable connotation; it remained a
                    "virtue" word far more attractive than conservative, surely an indication of the
                    continuing appeal of the New Deal. Willkie frequently bragged of his liberalism. In his acceptance
                    speech he described himself as a "liberal Democrat who … found democracy in the
                    Republican Party."35 Roosevelt picked Wallace, he said, because Wallace
                    was a liberal, a loyal New Dealer. There was no ideological ticket-balancing for the Democrats this
                    time.
            Further, compared with elections to come, the scope of campaigning was remarkably narrow. Willkie
                    traveled far more than Roosevelt, and while he made an extended tour through the West, he spent most
                    of his time criss-crossing the states north of the Ohio River and east of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . Roosevelt campaigned directly in only four states, and his much-publicized
                    "inspection trips" did not take him far from 
                        Washington
                    . Both parties ignored the southern states. The Democrats knew it was an unneeded
                    effort; the Republicans knew it would be a waste of time. The fact that the South remained solidly
                    Democratic of course gave Roosevelt a considerable advantage. 
                        South Carolina
                     in 1940 gave the Republican candidate a grand total of 1,727 votes.36 Finally, politics in 1940 lacked the intense targeting of special interest
                    groups—beyond the traditional emphasis on broad economic associations, such as labor and
                    agriculture, and groups that took positions on foreign policy—that would mark the
                    contests in years to come. African Americans had virtually no part in the campaign, if only because
                    most blacks lived in the South and most blacks in the South could not vote. Speaking late in the
                    campaign at Forbes Field, 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , Willkie promised to appoint a labor leader to replace Frances Perkins—the
                    first female to hold a Cabinet post—as secretary of labor. To affirm his seriousness he
                    added, "and it won't be a woman either." The remark drew laughter and
                    applause. While Roosevelt and Perkins 
                  
                     35
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, August 18, 1940.
                  
                     36
                            Historical Statistics of the 
                                    United States
                                , 684.
               
                     considered the statement a mistake, it provoked no major
                    reaction among the female electorate. Willkie experienced no special "gender
                        gap."37
            
            Willkie began his campaign intent on applying a new approach to politics: he would participate in a
                    crusade of sorts based on an assumption that the people considered politics devious, dirty business;
                    he would rise above it. "I don't like politicians. Mr. Willkie … is not
                    one," said actor Robert Montgomery in giving an early endorsement.38
                    This position blended with Willkie's political philosophy and original campaign strategy.
                    Assuming that Republicans had no alternative but to support the party's candidate, he
                    appealed to dissatisfied Democrats and Independents. His remark that "party lines are
                    down" set the tone for his campaign.
            Willkie began the campaign by returning to his Indiana hometown to give his formal
                    "acceptance" speech on August 17. This nostalgic appearance, doubtless calculated
                    to project Willkie as a Hoosier and a man of the people, failed to produce the sparkle that had been
                    expected. 
                        Elwood
                    , a town of 11,000, could scarcely accommodate the more than 200,000 visitors,
                    especially on a day when the temperature passed 100 degrees. A few days later Willkie left on an
                    extensive trip, mostly by rail, to the west coast. In the course of that trip he indicated that he
                    intended to accept basic outlines of New Deal domestic and foreign policies while focusing on (1)
                    the issue of the third term, (2) centralizing and ineffective aspects of some New Deal programs, and
                    (3) slowness in mobilization of national defense. Against the advice of some professionals he
                    endorsed the principle of selective service; and while he attacked the method of transaction, he
                    also agreed with the need to send American destroyers to Britain—the so-called
                    destroyer-base deal of September, 1940. "Only the productive can be strong, and only the
                    strong can be free" became the catchword of the campaign.39
            
            Roosevelt had suggested his strategy at the time of nomination. He intended to exploit the prestige
                    of his office, to give the impression that he was too busy, largely with the European crisis, to
                    become involved in mere politics. He would not campaign, he said—indeed, he planned to
                    ignore his opponent—although he occasionally might have to point out "deliberate
                    or unwitting falsification of fact."40 The president did plan thinly
                    disguised "inspection" trips to defense establishments in the East. Otherwise he
                    left politicking to lieutenants and the vice-presidential candidate.
            
               
                  37 Joseph Barnes, Willkie (
                            New York
                        , 1952), 220–21; Frances Perkins, The Roosevelt I Knew (
                            New York
                        , 1946), 116–17.
               
                  38 Statement for the press, August 7, 1940, Wendell L. Willkie Papers
                        (Lilly Library, Indiana University).
               
                  39 Burns, Roosevelt, 442–43.
               
                  40
                        Ibid., 435.
            
            
            The Democrats moved quickly to identify Willkie as a big businessman—as New Yorker rather
                    than Hoosier—and to hold him accountable for the Republicans as the party of privilege,
                    an old Democratic tactic, and of isolationism. Ickes mocked the "simple, barefoot Wall
                    Street lawyer" and urged listeners to think in terms of "the utility executive,
                    the director of one of the principal banks affiliated with Morgan and Company."41 In speech after speech Wallace touted Roosevelt as "the man that
                    Hitler wants to see defeated," implying of course that the reverse also was true. Getting
                    bolder with every thrust, Wallace in September charged that while "every Republican is not
                    an appeaser …, you can be sure that every Nazi, every Hitlerite and every appeaser is a
                        Republican."42 The election, remarked one observer, had become a
                    contest of Roosevelt running against Hitler "with Willkie a poor third."43
            
            Willkie demonstrated that he had lost none of the vigor that had inspired the remarkable movement for
                    his nomination. This burly man with the mussed-up hair, the rumpled suit and shirt, shouted himself
                    hoarse in speech after speech across the upper 
                        United States
                    . The audiences' size and enthusiasm suggested a perception that here was a new
                    and exciting personage, not the sort normally found running on the Republican side. During the
                    campaign, however, Willkie faced a wider stage than he had during the Republican convention, a stage
                    with well-established performers; and he largely preached to the converted. Warm audience response
                    did not reflect strength within the individual states. Polls running well into September suggested
                    that Willkie was falling farther behind. The trouble, according to Robert E. Sherwood, one of
                    Roosevelt's speech writers, was that the Republican candidate had nothing concrete to
                    offer: "What Willkie was saying, in effect, was `You can trust me to do the same thing,
                    only better'—or as the more embittered members of the Republican Old Guard put
                    it, `Me too.' "44
            
            Sensing that otherwise he would lose, convinced that some Democrats had been vicious and dishonest in
                    attacks on him, Willkie late in the campaign struck out on a more belligerent course. In October he
                    stepped up attacks on "Mr. Third Term Candidate," the "Indispensable
                    Man," equating Roosevelt with the bossism of Frank Hague in Jersey City and Edward Kelly in 
                        Chicago
                     and suggesting the potential for a perpetual president. Whereas earlier Willkie had
                    charged Roosevelt with inaction, even appeasement, toward the European dictators, in mid-October be
                    insisted that the 
                  
                     41
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, August 20, 1940.
                  
                     42
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, August 30, September 10, 1940.
                  
                     43
                            Time, XXXVI (September 9, 1940), 15.
                  
                     44 Robert E. Sherwood, Roosevelt and Hopkins: An Intimate
                                History (
                                New York
                            , 1948), 184–85.
               
                    
                    
                  WENDELL L. WILLKIE AT ELWOOD, INDIANA, ON THE OCCASION OF HIS ACCEPTANCE SPEECH AS THE REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE,
                                AUGUST, 1940
                  Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                    
                    
                  PARADE IN LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA, DURING WENDELL L. WILLKIE'S CAMPAIGN TOUR,
                                SEPTEMBER, 1940
                  Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                    
                    
                  Courtesy James H. Madison.
               
                    
                    
                  WENDELL L. WILLKIE RALLY ON THE CIRCLE IN INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA,
                                OCTOBER 29, 1940
                  Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Bass Photo Collection. Nog. no. 103104.
               
                     president intended to take the country to war. "If his
                    promise to keep us from foreign wars is no better than his promise to balance the budget,"
                    he said in 
                        Chicago
                    , "the boys are already practically on the transports."45 Seeing signs that he had found an effective issue, that "we've got
                    them on the run," Willkie maintained the attack the rest of the campaign. "On the
                    basis of his past performances, if you reelect him, you may expect war in April, 1941," he
                    said on October 30.46
            
            The shift in Willkie's tactics interjected into the campaign the proposition of war and
                    peace—an issue that Roosevelt had hoped the nomination of Willkie, an internationalist,
                    had put to rest. The move created panic in the president's inner circle, placed Roosevelt
                    on the defensive, and caused him to change plans about electioneering.47 The
                    White House announced that in the final two weeks before the election the president intended to make
                    five plainly political speeches.
            Roosevelt took his campaign to a people reminded daily of a world at war. Americans could listen each
                    evening, for example, as Edward R. Murrow described the 
                        German
                     bombing of 
                        London
                    . Millions of young men had registered for the draft on October 16, 1940, and the first
                    selection of numbers took place only one week before the election. While the president made no
                    effort to conceal an identification with these events—he presided over the drawing on
                    October 29, a ceremony that could have been delayed until after the election—he did seek
                    to dispel Willkie's loudening shouts of warmongering. He rejected all charges of treaties
                    or secret agreements and sought to tag the Republicans with an unthinking, irresponsible
                    isolationism, his speeches often highlighted by rhythmic reference (the audience soon learned to
                    join in) to isolationist Congressmen "Martin, Barton and Fish."48 In response to pleas that he reaffirm a dedication to peace, Roosevelt—whose
                    remarks were and would be often quoted—promised in one of his most quotable statements,
                    "I have said this before, but I shall say it again, and again and again. Your boys are not
                    going to be sent into any foreign wars."49
            
            By the end of the campaign charges and promises flew hot and heavy, with both sides freely using the
                    war to promote their candidate. On several occasions Willkie was pelted with eggs, tomatoes, or
                    over-ripened fruit. Lippmann did not refer to such physical abuse, however, when he described the
                    campaign's "Two Super–Smears," 
                  
                     45
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, October 23, 1940.
                  
                     46
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, October 31, 1940; see also 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, October 22, 1940.
                  
                     47 For the mood in the White House see Sherwood, Roosevelt and Hopkins, 187.
                  
                     48
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, October 29, 1940.
                  
                     49
                            Ibid., October 31, 1940.
               
                    
                    
                  FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT SPEAKING AT
                            THE MANHATTAN ENTRANCE TO THE MIDTOWN TUNNEL, NEW YORK,
                                OCTOBER 28, 1940
                  Photograph by Ben Heller; courtesy F#2 D. Roosevelt Library, Hyde Park, 
                                New York
                            .
               
                    
                    
                  PRESIDENT FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT SIGNS THE BURKE-WADSWORTH SELECTIVE TRAINING AND SERVICE ACT, SEPTEMBER 16, 1940
                  Office of War Information; courtesy F#2 D. Roosevelt Library, Hyde Park. 
                                New York
                            .
               
                     as the effort by Democrats "to make it appear that the
                    election of Willkie will be a victory for Hitler" and the attempt by Republicans to have it
                    appear "that the defeat of Roosevelt will keep the country out of war."50 Sherwood, even though a participant, privately would call the campaign
                    "for two impassioned weeks, pretty much of a national disgrace."51
            
            Americans voted in 1940 essentially to keep the government as it had been. Roosevelt's
                    victory—the president received 27,000,000 votes to Willkie's
                    22,300,000—was impressive, although he won by a considerably smaller margin than those
                    recorded in previous campaigns. Roosevelt carried thirty-eight states with 449 electoral votes to
                    ten states and 82 electoral votes for Willkie. Congressional races were inconclusive. The Democrats
                    picked up seven seats in the House; the Republicans gained five in the Senate; and while the outcome
                    left Democrats with substantial majorities in both houses (more than two-to-one in the Senate), it
                    did not turn back impressive Republican gains made in 1938. Willkie at least could take pleasure in
                    winning his native state. Indiana went Republican by slightly more than 25,000 votes. If this tally
                    seemed to carry less than a ringing mandate, a comparison with Roosevelt's margin of
                    243,000 in 1936 suggested how far Willkie had come.52
            
            The Republicans as a whole did well in Indiana, a performance that reaffirmed the direction taken in
                    1938 and suggested that Democratic victories during the first half of the decade had been out of
                    step with more familiar Hoosier politics. Republicans won eight of twelve congressional seats, a
                    gain of one, and scored a major victory when Raymond E. Willis defeated incumbent Sherman Minton for
                    the 
                        United States
                     Senate. Republicans took control of both houses of the state legislature and swept all
                    state offices save one. The single exception scarcely challenged the proposition that under
                    "normal" conditions, Indiana politics tended to be centrist, if not tilted
                    somewhat to the right. Lieutenant-Governor Henry F. Schricker fashioned himself into a conservative
                    "Jeffersonian" Democrat. Running for the state's highest office, he
                    distanced himself from the McNutt machine and, indeed, was barely a New Dealer. Schricker, whose
                    political trademark was his large white hat, gave his campaign a personal touch as he visited county
                    fairs and community gatherings, eating more fried chicken than he wanted and often sharing a
                    "chaw" of tobacco to show he truly was one of the boys. Schricker won the
                    governor's race, defeating Glen R. Willis of 
                        Kokomo
                     by little more than 10,000 votes.53
            
            
               
                  50
                        
                            Evansville
                        
                        Courier, October 31, 1940.
               
                  51 Sherwood, Roosevelt and Hopkins, 187.
               
                  52
                        Historical Statistics of the 
                                United States
                            , 686, 691.
               
                  53
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, November 7, 1940; Charles Francis Fleming, The White Hat:
                            Henry Frederick Schricker, A Political Biography ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ], 1966), 48-50, 56.
            
            
            Indiana politics in 1940 also featured two rising stars in the Republican party. One was Homer E.
                    Capehart, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     music box manufacturer, who hailed from downstate 
                        Washington
                     in 
                        Daviess County
                    . After organizing his famous Cornfield Conference of 1938, Capehart, an ally of
                    Willkie, was all over the place, clearly positioning himself for an entry into elective politics on
                    a high level. William E. Jenner of Shoals, already floor leader in the state Senate, demonstrated
                    the slashing style that would mark his future tenure in the Senate of the 
                        United States
                    . Jenner charged that "political barons" were "shaking
                    down" prison guards for contributions to the Schricker campaign and that Schricker had
                    "goose-stepped" with men "copy-catting" leaders of the New Deal.
                    He explained that at the start of the campaign the "State House boys had given up on
                    Roosevelt and decided to put all the shakedown dough on Henry," thus displaying pictures of
                    "Henry-the-Pure twice as large as the picture of 
                        Franklin
                    -the-Indispensable." Then, Jenner continued, "Henry's record
                    backfired on him and gave them all the hotfoot—and they have been hotfooting it away from
                    Henry's record ever since."54
            
            Why did Willkie lose? Why did a campaign that started out so fresh, promising, and original end in
                    the almost monotonous result of another loss to Roosevelt? Party people pointed to foolish mistakes,
                    amateur tactics, failure to draw sharper differences between the parties, and failure to make use of
                    experienced professionals. The reliance upon amateurs, such people as Davenport and Root, irritated
                    party regulars, causing many to put forth a timid effort at best.55 The shift to
                    greater partisanship at the end enlivened the campaign and evidently produced some results, but such
                    tactics produced diminishing returns and in the end stopped considerably short of the objective.
            The decision to blur party lines by appealing to Democrats and Independents was sound strategy; it
                    was also consistent with Willkie's determination to present himself as an honest and
                    straightforward leader. The problem was that Willkie had challenged a familiar face and voice, a
                    president with a substantial reservoir of strength. Roosevelt's people worried about the
                    impact of the third term; indeed, Eleanor Roosevelt reported her husband's surprise that it
                    had not been a greater hurdle. The issue of the third term, which Willkie had counted on heavily,
                    did increase his 
                  
                     54
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, October 16, 23, 1940. See also William B. Pickett, "The
                            Capehart Cornfield Conference and the Election of 1938: Homer E. Capehart's Entry
                            into Politics," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXIII (December,
                            1977), 251-75.
                  
                     55 Strongly supporting this view is Mary Earhard Dillon, Wendell Willkie, 1892–1944 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1952), 196-98, 218-19, 224. For other criticism of the campaign see Martin,
                                My First Fifty Years in Politics, 107-10; Raymond Clapper, Watching
                            the World (
                                New York
                            , 1954), 159-61.
               
                     strength. Virtually every survey placed it at the top of
                    reasons for voting for the Republican candidate.56 But it was not enough. In the
                    end Willkie had too many hurdles to leap, too many sinners to convert, especially in the
                    extraordinary circumstances of 1940.
            In the broadest perspective one must conclude that the world war was the most important factor
                    affecting the course of politics in 1940. The war provided a reason for Roosevelt's
                    candidacy; without the conflict he probably (one never can be sure) would not have run. The war did
                    much to bring about the nomination of Willkie; otherwise Republicans might have taken a chance on
                    the youthful Dewey or isolationist Taft. One survey by the Gallup organization suggested that the
                    war clearly determined the outcome of the race. On October 5 pollsters asked people whom they would
                    vote for "if there were no war in Europe today"; 47 percent said Roosevelt, and 53
                    percent supported Willkie.57
            
            In the end the war pulled many ways of course. Republicans won votes from such groups as Irish
                    Americans, and Democrats gained support from others. The election's outcome stemmed not so
                    much from the fact that the war won votes for Roosevelt as that it enabled him, and the Democrats,
                    to keep what they had by discouraging major party shifts that would have made a Willkie victory
                    possible. Democratic prospects rested upon Roosevelt's claim to steady and experienced
                    leadership. While Willkie seemed basically sound and mature, easily the best the Republicans had, he
                    occasionally appeared erratic and of course could not match the president's experience. The
                    war blunted the effect of the third term, an issue with enormous potential for harm to
                    Roosevelt's candidacy. The war had prompted a modest upturn in the economy— a
                    second major issue that could have caused flight from the incumbent party—and offered the
                    prospect of even better times ahead.
            The citizens of Indiana had no reason to be embarrassed that a native son had lost the presidency in
                    1940. In losing, Willkie had received more votes than Herbert Hoover in his landslide victory in
                    1928; he had received nearly 7,000,000 more votes than Hoover in 1932, over 5,000,000 more than
                    Landon in 1936, and, it turned out, more votes than Dewey would get in 1944 or 1948.58 He had
                    presented himself as a man of charm, wit, intelligence, and extraordinary excitement. The last two
                    weeks of the campaign notwithstanding, 
                  
                     56 For examples of surveys see Cantril, Public
                            Opinion, 619, 620; and a telegram from Elmo Roper to Harold Gallagher, in Willkie
                            headquarters, September 4, 1940, Willkie Papers. The remark by Eleanor Roosevelt appears in
                            Barnes, Willkie, 236.
                  
                     57 Cantril, Public Opinion, 618. A different
                            interpretation appears in Divine, Foreign Policy and U.S. Presidential
                                Elections, 84-89.
                  
                     58 Ellsworth Barnard, Wendell Willkie: Fighter for
                                Freedom (Marquette, Mich., 1966), 264.
               
                     Willkie's manner of running for the presidency and the
                    grace with which he accepted defeat left the nation far less divided than it might have been. He
                    sparkled as the brightest star in Republican presidential politics during two decades of Democratic
                    domination. Indiana has not produced a more capable or appealing presidential candidate since.
         
         
         
            Esther Griffin White: An Awakener of Hoosier Potential
            George T. Blakey∗
            
            Only a handful of people gathered at the graveside service in 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, to commemorate her death. The modest gravestone in Earlham Cemetery would
                    bear just her name, Esther Griffin White, and the year of her death, 1954. Blind and nearly
                    destitute at age eighty-five, she had spent her final months in a nursing home, dependent on various
                    charities. Most of her mourners knew of the eccentricities that characterized her life; a few could
                    recall the more recent parts of a journalistic career that spanned roughly fifty years; but almost
                    none were aware of the earlier significant contributions that she had made to Hoosier life. As a
                    feminist, suffragist, and politician she had crusaded for women's rights and political
                    reforms. As a creator and patroness of the arts she was a prolific poet and an impresario of
                    cultural programs, and her home was a salon for Indiana artists whose work she gathered into one of
                    the richest collections in the state. Esther Griffin White's life thus deserves more than
                    the cryptic gravestone and virtual anonymity that have become her legacy.
            A number of community and family forces shaped White into the person that she was. The fact that she
                    grew up in a 
                        Quaker
                     family in a town founded and influenced by the Society of Friends contributed to many
                    of her strongly held principles, individualism and the rights of women among them. Antislavery
                    Quakers founded 
                        Richmond
                     in the early nineteenth century. White's parents, Oliver and Mary White,
                    attended a neighborhood Friends meeting, and relatives from both sides of her family were trustees
                    of Earlham College.1 At the time of White's birth in 1869 this 
                        Quaker
                     school was less than three decades old, but it nevertheless 
                  
                     ∗ George T. Blakey is professor of history, Indiana
                            University East, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 Carolyn Maund, interview with Esther Griffin White, undated
                            typescript, Esther Griffin White Collection (
                                Wayne County
                             Historical Society Museum, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana). Maund was a close friend and newspaper associate of White.
               
                     exerted a strong intellectual influence on 
                        Richmond
                    's population of approximately nine thousand people.2
            
            Several members of White's immediate family helped to reinforce her belief in 
                        Quaker
                     egalitarianism and to polish her innate intellectual gifts. Throughout the course of
                    his life Oliver White wore many hats, and his daughter seemed to follow his lead. From her
                    father's varied occupations—during Esther's lifetime he operated a
                    bookstore, edited a small newspaper, and taught school—Esther White gained a respect for
                    ideas and a love for the printed word. After her father's death she would recall in her
                    personal journal his "brilliant intellect and artistic tendencies."3 With his encouragement she had attended a few classes at Earlham College when she was
                    only seventeen to enhance an incomplete public school education.4 She and her
                    three siblings—Robert, Ray, and Winifred— all had creative temperaments, and
                    each excelled at either art, music, or literature. Esther remembered that in their younger days they
                    would tip back their chairs after dinner and talk endlessly about the arts and politics.
                    "Such a brilliant flow of wit, epigram and repartee … we sharpened each
                    other's wits. We were fine foils for one another's talents … we were a
                    stimulating group."5 Esther lost all of her family within a five year
                    span: her father and both brothers in 1908 and her mother and sister in 1913. Unmarried, she lived
                    alone for the remaining forty-one years of her life, during which she frequently exaggerated the
                    genius and brilliance of her family's accomplishments. Nevertheless, she was surrounded in
                    her younger years by intelligent, ambitious people who convinced her that she was their peer.
            Two extraordinary women in 
                        Wayne County
                     served as role models for the young White. Both were writers and prominent feminists
                    whose success testified to the possibilities available for assertive, independent women in Indiana.
                    Mary F. Thomas, the daughter of a 
                        Quaker
                     abolitionist, moved to 
                        Richmond
                     with her husband in 1856 shortly after becoming a physician. Twice denied admittance to
                    the 
                        Wayne County
                     Medical Association because of her sex, Thomas finally gained entry in 1875 and the
                    following year became the first female member of the state medical society. Politically active, she
                    petitioned the state legislature for female 
                  
                     2
                            
                                Wayne County
                            , Indiana, Record of Deaths, Vol. XXI, p. 190, Health Department, 
                                Wayne County
                             Courthouse Annex, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana; U. S., A Compendium of the Ninth Census (
                                Washington
                            , D. C., 1872), 177.
                  
                     3 Esther Griffin White Journal, September 7, 1910 (In the possession
                            of David W. Dennis, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana).
                  
                     4
                            
                                Richmond
                             Community Schools, Pupil Register, 1874–1889, 
                                Richmond
                             Community Schools Administration Building; Earlham College, Catalogue of the Officers and Students, 1886-87 (
                                Richmond
                            , Ind., 1887). A copy of this catalogue is located in the Earlham College
                            Registrar's Office, 
                                Richmond
                            .
                  
                     5 White Journal, September 11, 1910; Maund interview with
                        White.
               
                    
                    
                  ESTHER GRIFFIN WHITE LATE 19TH CENTURY
                  
                  Esther Griffin White Collection; courtesy Earlham College Archives, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana.
               
                     suffrage in 1859 and was chosen president of an Indiana
                    suffrage association eight times. Thomas's death in 1888 prompted a massive outpouring of
                    community tributes that surely made a lasting impression on nineteen-year-old Esther White. A
                    memorable ceremony for Dr. Thomas included six female pallbearers and a speech by one of
                    White's relatives.6 Many years later White continued the homage by
                    calling Thomas one of the luminaries of the women's rights movement.7
            
            Louise Vickroy Boyd's contributions to White's character followed a similar
                    pattern. Boyd was a published author and crusading feminist prior to moving to 
                        Wayne County
                     with her husband in 1865. Throughout White's childhood Boyd encouraged the
                    young girl's creativity and vocational goals; and when Esther was sixteen years old, Boyd
                    wrote in her autograph book:
                        The Throne, the sceptre and the crown were hers
                        The regal Esther of the olden time …
                        But would'st thou, Esther, Indiana born,
                        Though never crowned, be nonetheless a queen.8
                  
                     Shortly after her friend's death in 1909, White edited and published Poems by Louise Vickroy Boyd with a brief biography and tribute.9 For
                    a young woman seeking self-fulfillment, equality, and a degree of fame, White could not have found
                    two better mentors than Thomas and Boyd.
            What produced White s eccentricities can only be surmised, but they were obvious and memorable. Her
                    brother Robert once called her a "bohemian," which she accepted as a compliment,
                    and she lived up to the description's usual connotations.10 As early as
                    1915 she smoked publicly and criticized those who disapproved. Her fashion sense was either a step
                    ahead or behind contemporary styles; her skirts were either shorter or longer and her hats larger or
                    smaller than those worn by other women of the time. She often affected a masculine look, abetted by
                    a cane carried in the manner of a swagger stick.11 She befriended and championed
                    the rights of 
                  
                     6
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Evening Item and 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Daily Telegram, August 20, 1888. For a discussion of Thomas's
                            work for women's suffrage in Indiana, see Pat Creech Scholten, "A Public
                            'Jollification': The 1859 Women's Rights Petition before the
                            Indiana Legislature," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXII
                            (December, 1976), 347-59.
                  
                     7
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Item, [1920], clipping, File VI (Suffrage File), Esther Griffin White
                            Collection (Earlham College Archives, 
                                Richmond
                            ).
                  
                     8 Autograph Book, 1885–1886, File I, ibid.
                  
                  
                     9 Esther Griffin White, ed., Poems by Louise Vickroy
                            Boyd (
                                Richmond
                            , Ind., 1911).
                  
                     10 White Journal, September 11, 1910.
                  
                     11
                            The Little Paper, September 11, 1915 (the White Collection in the Earlham
                            College Archives contains a large, although incomplete, run of The Little
                            Paper); Ed Kaeuper, interview with author, August 12, 1986; Esther Kellner, interview
                            with author, August 19, 1986; Mary Lane Hiatt, interview with author, July 25, 1988; Susan
                            Castator, interview with author, October 12, 1986.
               
                    
                    
                  ESTHER GRIFFIN WHITE JOURNALIST, c. 1915
                  Esther Griffin White Collection; courtesy Earlham College Archives, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana.
               
                     African Americans and was an active member of the local chapter
                    of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People during a time when such behavior
                    generated considerable scorn for a single white female. White's recreations also called
                    attention to her distinctiveness. Before many women took up golf, White was a regular player at the
                    country club; and she walked widely and frequently—once to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a feat that drew much newspaper coverage.12 Her opinions were
                    firm, her wit caustic, her temper volatile; she demanded cooperation, favors, and applause, yet her
                    self-conscious detachment made her appear aloof and unfriendly. Many people found her temperament
                    endearing or considered it a reflection of her high standards and ambition. Others, less charitable,
                    regarded her as rude, profane, and condescending.13 Some of her eccentricities
                    might have been consciously cultivated to enhance her career. As a self-supporting woman in a
                    predominantly male profession, her uniqueness was marketable. Her status as a
                    "character" or public personality, for example, probably assisted her as a
                    newspaperwoman.
            The vocabulary of journalism was familiar to White from an early age. When she was a child, her
                    father edited a small weekly newspaper, the 
                        Dublin
                    
                    Wayne Register; and her uncle, Charles W. Cottom, was an influential Indiana
                        newspaperman.14 Her brother Ray's brief newspaper career and
                    Boyd's encouragement of her writing both helped her develop an affinity for journalism. By
                    the time White was in her thirties, newspaper work had become a natural, and an ultimately
                    necessary, vocation. She had no formal training in the field; instead, she applied her natural
                    inquisitive-ness to topics that intrigued her and ferreted out interesting features. Local
                    newspapers that could not spare staff reporters to cover distant meetings paid her a small fee to do
                    so. In 1890 she attended a literary conference in 
                        Warsaw
                    , Indiana, for the 
                        Richmond
                     Palladium, and the newspaper's editors informed readers that she would be
                    doing similar work in 1891 for another gathering of writers. They hoped that her work would prove
                    again to be "descriptive, gossipy, delightful." Sometimes White wrote under a
                    pseudonym—possibly to add curiosity or humor or to avoid sex discrimination. Her feature
                    stories on travel and cultural events such as the 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Atlanta
                     expositions in the 1890s appeared in 
                  
                     12
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, October 13, 1923.
                  
                     13 Jamie Cooper, interview with author, August 28, 1986; Hazel Thorne,
                            interview with author, August 14, 1986; Louise Whisenhunt, interview with author, September
                            10, 1986; Mary Hart, interview with author, October 6, 1986; Elmer Porter, interview with
                            author, October 24, 1986.
                  
                     14 Opal Thornburg, "Esther Griffin White," speech
                            manuscript, 1970, File I, White Collection (Earlham College Archives). Thornburg was Earlham
                            College archivist and an acquaintance of White. John W. Miller, Indiana
                                Newspaper Bibliography… (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1982), 490, 157, 242, 275, 414, 486.
               
                    
                    
                  Indianapolis, Cincinnati
               , and 
                        Dayton
                     newspapers under the bylines "Z" and "Graveyard
                        Ripplings."15 Such part-time assignments gave her experience in
                    competing for stories, writing readable prose rapidly, and finding publishing venues. Later she
                    would hold in contempt young reporters, fresh from schools of journalism, who had not traveled her
                    rough-and-tumble road to success.16
            
            White's prose style was highly idiosyncratic despite the fact that she regarded herself as a
                    professional, was a charter member of the Indiana Women's Press Club, and gave lectures to
                    college journalism classes. She once told a young reporter that to be successful in the newspaper
                    business he had to deliver simple, unbiased prose,17 yet her copy was usually
                    the reverse of her advice. It was personal, argumentative, often satirical, and frequently inflated.
                    She once critiqued a vaudeville act as "putrid clear to the core … common,
                    coarse, unutterably sordid," and she characterized Vice-President Charles Warren Fairbanks,
                    a fellow Hoosier, as "old dog-eared, moth-eaten Charley." Her praise could be as
                    effusive as her criticism was eviscerating. In a review of a concert by Madame Johanna Gadski, she
                    compared the soprano's voice to a "satin ribbon undulating in a
                        breeze."18 Some readers found her writing style amusing; others
                    regarded it as offensive. Early advice and suggestions from writers whom she respected apparently
                    had no tempering effect. Historian John C. Ridpath from 
                        Greencastle
                     warned her not to use too much satire and to be careful lest her sharp bodkin
                    "impale the wrong bug." An Ohio editor suggested that she slow down and write with
                    more "circumspection." Meredith Nicholson offered her advice for several years on
                    writing and publishing. "You would have to grab your pencil a little tighter," he
                    counseled, "and tame the young mustang of your style—less exclamatory and
                        interjectional."19
            
            White's florid style reflected her personal temperament and was probably one of the reasons
                    for her erratic employment record. Her half-century of journalism was marked by frequent firings,
                    resignations, and searches for outside income from free-lancing. During her long career she worked
                    for most of the newspapers in 
                        Richmond
                    : the Morning News, the Sun-Telegram, the Item, the Palladium, and then the combined Palladium-Item. As a female she generally earned less than male counterparts, and with her
                        
                  
                     15 Scrapbook clippings, White Collection (Earlham College Archives).
                  
                     16 Speech manuscript, undated, File VII, ibid.
                  
                  
                     17 Interview with Ed Kaeuper.
                  
                     18
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, September 23, 1912; The Little Paper,
                            September 18, 1915; 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Morning News, scrapbook clipping, undated, White Collection (Earlham
                            College Archives).
                  
                     19 John C. Ridpath to Esther Griffin White, August 15, 1891, Box III,
                            White Collection (Earlham College Archives); J. C. Ochiltree to White, February 15, 1902,
                            Box VII, ibid.; Meredith Nicholson to White, August 10, 1913, ibid.
                  
               
                     volatile temper she never built up much seniority so her pay
                    scale remained low.20 During periods of unemployment between 1915 and 1944,
                    White sometimes published The Little Paper, an inexpensive tabloid that contained
                    an unpredictable mixture of editorials, poetry, art and theater reviews, gossip, and occasional
                    photographs. It carried few advertisements and seldom made a profit, but many people read it avidly,
                    knowing it would be entertaining, anti-establishment, and frequently outrageous.21 White also published many articles on cultural topics in a variety of magazines such as American Art News, House Beautiful, Art Digest, Craftsman, Dignam's
                    Magazine, and Woman's Home Companion. In 1914 she ventured to 
                        New York City
                     in search of work. While there, she wrote to former Indiana Senator Albert J. Beveridge
                    for a letter of reference, indicating that she was "one of the best known professional
                    newspaper women in Indiana." Beveridge diplomatically declined the request, pleading
                    innocence of any exposure to her work, and White returned to Indiana to resume her local career.22 Apparently the only other time she attempted to pursue her craft outside
                    Indiana was in 1937 when she tried to get Senator Frederick Van Nuys to assist her in finding
                    employment at one of the national press agencies or with the American unit at the 
                        Paris
                     Exposition. Neither of these attempts proved fruitful, so her career—despite
                    several attempts to change it—was based in east central Indiana from start to finish.23
            
            White's work for newspapers and magazines reveals her versatility, thoroughness, and
                    uncompromising opinions as well as her colorful style. From the 1890s to 1944 her career as a
                    newspaperwoman involved almost every phase of that profession. White compiled
                    "society" tidbits for the women's pages, wrote editorials and special
                    columns, reviewed cultural events, and covered political, police, and court news. For The Little Paper she wrote articles, did layout, designed headlines, took photographs,
                    sold advertising, solicited subscriptions, and handled circulation. Regardless of which local
                    newspaper she worked for, she was the "reporter of choice" for special occasions.
                    Coverage of the concert by Madame Ernestine Schumann-Heinck in 1904 or the grand opening of the
                    Leland Hotel in 1928 would not have been as detailed or colorful in the hands of another
                        reporter.24 Countless weddings received her close attention. 
                  
                     20 Interview with Hazel Thorne.
                  
                     21 Interview with Susan Castator; Francis W. Robinson, interview with
                            author, May 30, 1988.
                  
                     22 White to Albert J. Beveridge, February 10, 1914, Box 201, Albert J.
                            Beveridge Collection (Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D. C.); Beveridge to White, February 19, 1914, File VI, White Collection
                            (Earlham College Archives).
                  
                     23 Frederick Van Nuys to White, March 19, 25, 1937, File VI, White
                            Collection (Earlham College Archives).
                  
                     24
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, February 12, 1904; 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Item, September 16, 1928.
               
                     She conferred with the bride's dressmaker, consulted
                    the church musician, noted how the sunlight through colored windows cast spectrums over the
                    nuptials, and concluded that each ceremony was the highlight of the social season. This loving
                    coverage of weddings could well have served as a vicarious betrothal and union for White, who had
                    conceded at age forty-one that she would "never marry."25 The
                    annual Chautauqua in 
                        Richmond
                     received the same indefatigable attention. Each summer in the early twentieth century,
                    musical, oratorical, and religious attractions that lasted approximately a week were held in a
                    wooded glen near the town. White would attend all of the events in the afternoon and evening, review
                    each for the next day's paper—coverage that sometimes filled two
                    pages—and repeat the enterprise the next day until the Chautauqua ran its course. This
                    "persistent application to the finish," she confided to her journal, was the
                    quality that "makes me beloved of the newspapers I've worked for."26
            
            Respected or feared might have been more accurate than "beloved" as a description
                    for White's reputation among her employers and readers. There was consensus, however, that
                    the results of her dogged research and uncompromising principles would appear in print no matter who
                    got hurt or offended. Because of her religious affiliation White generally covered the Indiana
                    Yearly Meeting, an annual 
                        Quaker
                     policy-making conference. Her reports of rancor and self-serving decisions belied the
                    image of gentle Friends in silent meditation and frequently earned her angry criticism and editorial
                    pressure. Similarly, her survey of presidential candidates in 1912 revealed a balanced grasp of the
                    issues but a thoroughly subjective conclusion that all right-thinking people could vote only for
                    Theodore Roosevelt.27 Her reviews of theatrical and musical performances often
                    devoted more space to chiding audiences than to appraising the productions. Frequently White railed
                    about the rudeness of people who arrived late for performances or the vulgar taste of local
                    theatergoers who would not support higher-quality attractions.28 When she
                    battled city government, as she often did, she resorted to more extreme measures if her written
                    articles did not bring satisfaction. In an effort to stop the 
                        Richmond
                     Board of Public Works from altering a section of the historic National Road, White
                    recruited the aid of Richard Lieber, director of the Indiana Department of Conservation, and also
                    filed for an injunction to prevent 
                  
                     25 Scrapbook clippings, undated, White Collection (Earlham College
                            Archives); interview with Mary Hart; Mary C. Gates, interview with author, June 6, 1988;
                            White Journal, August 18, 1910.
                  
                     26 White Journal, August 18, 1910.
                  
                     27
                            The Little Paper, 1915–1916, passim;
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, June 17, 1912.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Morning News, scrapbook clippings, White Collection (Earlham College
                            Archives); The Little Paper, February 3, 1915.
               
                     city action.29 Her series calling attention
                    to unsanitary privies in close proximity to park springs forced the city to move the offensive
                    structures. A subsequent editorial crowed that she had brought about the correction and quoted a
                    municipal official who admitted that her articles had been the catalyst for improvement.30
            
            One of the most dramatic displays of White's journalistic skills came when she was retained
                    as an editor by the People's League in 1921. This bipartisan ad hoc group
                    worked to prevent 
                        Richmond
                     from changing its city government from an elected mayor and council to that of an
                    elected commission and appointed manager. The Indiana General Assembly had recently passed
                    legislation to permit city adoption of this form of government if the required percentage of the
                    electorate petitioned for, and then won in, a special referendum. More than 3,000 
                        Richmond
                     voters had so petitioned, and the local Chamber of Commerce and both local newspapers
                    favored the change.31 For five weeks prior to the referendum White edited The People's Paper, a free weekly newspaper distributed to every
                    household in the city. Her editorial work revealed the same tenacity, thoroughness, and sarcasm that
                    characterized her previous articles for the two daily papers, now the indirect target of her
                    attacks. She reported that 
                  Kalamazoo, Michigan
               , had doubled its taxes since
                    implementing the commission/manager system and that the former mayor of 
                  Akron, Ohio
               ,
                    had become the first city manager there at triple his former salary. She further pointed out that of
                    the eight Indiana cities that had voted on the option, only 
                        Michigan City
                     had adopted it. White bragged in The People's Paper that
                    little, if any, of this information could be found in the local press and that these discouraging
                    facts should convince 
                        Richmond
                     voters to reject the change and retain the mayor/council system. The
                        People's Paper occasioned considerable local discussion, and the 
                        Richmond
                     Item attempted to discredit it as a disreputable scandal sheet. Voters, however,
                    rejected the governmental switch by a three-to-one margin.32 White basked in her
                    brief and victorious foray into crusading journalism, sent copies of the paper to Beveridge after
                    the referendum, and took inflated credit for the defeat. The whole exercise, she concluded, had been
                    great fun.33
            
            White demonstrated in her political activities the same fearless, impulsive, principled behavior
                    evident in her newspaper work. Politics, in fact, was interwoven with her journalism. 
                  
                     29 Richard Lieber to White, January 13, 1921, File VI, White
                            Collection (Earl-ham College Archives); Complaint for Injunction against 
                                Richmond
                             Board of Public Works, January 7, 1921, copy, ibid.
                  
                  
                     30
                            The Little Paper, May 29, June 5, 1915.
                  
                     31
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Item, June 15, 1921.
                  
                     32
                            The People's Paper, May 14, 28, June 11, 1921; 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Item, June 2, 1921; 
                                Richmond
                             Palladium, June 15, 1921.
                  
                     33 White to Beveridge, undated, Box 230, Beveridge Collection.
               
                     White's firm belief in female equality was rooted in
                    her 
                        Quaker
                     heritage, and her admiration for Thomas and Boyd strengthened this belief. William
                    Dudley Foulke's presence in 
                        Richmond
                     further encouraged her activism. This lawyer, former Civil Service commissioner,
                    editor, and author was an outspoken advocate of the franchise for women and had been twice elected
                    president of a national suffrage organization.34 In 1912 fewer than ten
                    states—all of them west of the Mississippi River—permitted women voting
                    rights; but in their party platform of that year the Progressive Republicans behind Theodore
                    Roosevelt favored female suffrage and encouraged the hopes of women in other states. White was one
                    of the women who began an active crusade that lasted until the ratification of the Nineteenth
                    Amendment in 1920.
            Starting in 1912 White's newspaper columns became more feminist and political than
                    previously. She assessed candidates' suitability for office according to the stand they
                    took on women's suffrage. Giving women the vote would clean up politics, she maintained,
                    and she cited evidence from states that allowed equal franchise: in 
                        California
                    , for instance, to attract the female vote candidates appeared more ethical and
                    forthright than they had been when only males voted.35 White's longtime
                    admiration for Robert Dale Owen soon became ammunition in her political arsenal. Owen's
                    credentials as an advocate of female equality reached back to the Utopian experiments at 
                        New Harmony
                     and included his efforts to protect women's property rights in the Indiana
                    Constitution of 1851. White had earlier been secretary of the group responsible for commissioning a
                    bust of this Hoosier reformer and placing it in the statehouse. She insisted that Indiana now owed
                    it to Owen's memory to enact legislation that would fulfill one of his goals, that of
                    female suffrage. Owen had laid the philosophical foundation, she argued, but the state needed to
                    finish the task.36 In one issue of The Little Paper she
                    emblazoned the proposed Susan B. Anthony Amendment (Nineteenth) across the entire front page; in
                    another she demanded "universal, equal, nation-wide suffrage" and vowed to
                    "defeat any candidate of any party who … declares himself against
                    suffrage." The following week she listed all known Indiana candidates for local, state, and
                    national offices and their stands on the issue.37
            
            The Women's Franchise League (WFL) was the largest of several suffrage groups in Indiana and
                    was a state affiliate of the National American Woman Suffrage Association (NAWSA). White joined this
                    organization, attended its conferences, and held several 
                  
                     34 William Dudley Foulke, A Hoosier Autobiography (
                                New York
                            , 1922), 85-86.
                  
                     35
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, July 5, 1912.
                  
                     36
                            Ibid., September 6, 1912.
                  
                     37
                            The Little Paper, July 8, April 1, 8, 1916.
               
                    
                    
                  Esther Griffin White Collection; courtesy Earlham College Archives, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana.
               
                     offices, including the chairmanship of its Publicity Committee
                    in 1916. Following one convention in 1912 she wrote that it was a fine thing to see women working
                    "for their own emancipation. For active freedom. For something else besides a prize for a
                    bridge party or a box for a charity ball… . they have too long been confined to
                    competition for the minor prizes in the game of life."38 During another
                    convention the following year in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , she became the subject of a major feature story that garnered headlines, a picture,
                    and inclusion in several newspapers. Therein White sang the praises of militance to win the vote.
                    "I don't believe in window smashing and bomb throwing, … but it has
                    been demonstrated that the suffragists get nowhere unless more-or-less strenuous measures of
                    propaganda are employed." She lamented the failure of previous attempts by women to get the
                    state legislature to pass a state suffrage amendment; and she speculated, sarcastically, that if
                    those women "had been chorus girls, not one over 20 years old, …
                    woman's suffrage in Indiana would have gone through with a swing and a whoop."39
            
            White's enthusiasm for suffrage extended beyond newspaper publicity. To generate excitement
                    for a speech in 
                        Richmond
                     by franchise advocate Grace Julian Clarke, White and her friends plastered the town
                    with bright yellow posters—the suffrage color— announcing the occasion.
                    Clarke, the daughter of Hoosier politician and 
                        Wayne County
                     native George 
                        Washington
                     Julian, arrived by train from 
                        Indianapolis
                     and described 
                        Richmond
                     as "absolutely yellow" in anticipation of her address.40 Although not a frequent public speaker herself, White regarded the struggle for
                    women's votes worthy enough to schedule a series of brief talks between vaudeville acts at 
                        Richmond
                    's 
                        Murray
                     Theatre in 1914. Theater advertisements in the daily papers on the days of her
                    presentation gave her equal billing with featured artists.41 She also organized
                    a street rally for several suffrage speakers. The event drew huge crowds and good coverage in both
                    local papers, and White declared it a "splendid success."42
            
            Doubtless the highlight of White's suffragist activity came in 1916 when the Republican and
                    Progressive parties held simultaneous meetings in 
                        Chicago
                    . She and thousands of other women converged on the city to pressure both parties to
                    include planks favoring female suffrage in their platforms. Coordinated by the Congressional Union
                    and the NAWSA, delegates from most of the women's suffrage organizations in almost every
                    state attended. After 
                  
                     38
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, April 20, 1912.
                  
                     39
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Evening Sun, May 1, 1913.
                  
                     40 Scrapbook clippings, undated, White Collection (Earlham College
                            Archives).
                  
                     41
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, August 10, 1914; 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Item, August 8, 1914.
                  
                     42
                            The Little Paper, July 1, 1916; 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, June 27, 1916.
               
                     meeting for several days in the Blackstone and Princess
                    theaters, the women were to form a mammoth parade on June 7 to swing by the 
                        Chicago
                     Coliseum where the Republican party would be holding hearings on platform issues. As
                    publicity chairman for the Indiana Women's Franchise League, White attended the meetings
                    and was designated a "side marshall" for the parade. She marched beside the
                    automobile of the Indiana WFL president and wore the official yellow and white outfit for
                    suffragists. Three days of driving rain reduced the numbers of participants from the anticipated
                    thirty thousand but did not dampen their spirits. Approximately five thousand women plodded through
                    seven miles of 
                        Chicago
                    's puddles carrying soggy signs that proclaimed "Women, The De-Voted
                    Mothers of our Country." When the suffragists arrived at the Coliseum, their opponents were
                    trying to convince the Republican Resolutions Committee that women really did not want to vote.
                    "Just then the doors burst open," White reported the following week, "and
                    five thousand drenched women … filed in." Shortly thereafter, Republicans
                    adopted a platform plank that approved the concept of female suffrage; Progressives subsequently
                        concurred.43
            
            The end of White's suffragist activity and the beginning of her political campaigns for
                    public office overlapped rather than followed in sequence. She became a candidate in 1920 before she
                    could legally vote. In undertaking this ticklish feat she accomplished one of the things of which
                    she remained the proudest for the rest of her life; she became the first woman in Indiana to have
                    her name appear on an official election ballot.44 Prior to the ratification of
                    the Nineteenth Amendment, White had consulted the 
                        Wayne County
                     prosecuting attorney about running for a delegate's seat at the 1920
                    Republican State Convention. He discovered that regulations did not specify gender as a
                    qualification. As an adult Hoosier citizen, she could run. The 
                        Wayne County
                     Board of Election Commissioners refused, however, to print her name on the ballot, and
                    the board's refusal received support, in turn, by the State Board of Election
                    Commissioners, the Indiana attorney general, and Governor James P. Goodrich. White later recalled
                    her conversation with the governor. "Why, Esther," he said. "You know you
                    can't vote." She replied, "I know that, Governor Goodrich. I'm
                    not trying to vote. I'm going to ask people to vote for me."45
                    Thereupon she filed for a writ of mandamus to force the placement of her name on the ballot. At a
                    special hearing of the Wayne Circuit Court, Judge William Bond ruled in her favor. Voters 
                  
                     43
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Item, June 8, 1916; 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, June 8, 1916; The Little Paper, June 17, 1916.
                  
                     44 White to Beveridge, undated, Box 230, Beveridge Collection.
                  
                     45 Maund interview with White.
               
                     subsequently selected two delegates from her district, and of
                    the five candidates White polled second. Consequently, in May she became the only female delegate
                    among 1,500 Republicans convening in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .46 It was an auspicious beginning for a longtime suffragist,
                    feminist, and politician.
            This initial victory was White's most successful venture in politics despite several more
                    attempts to gain public office. Her later political efforts, however, did generate considerable
                    publicity for issues that she chose to highlight. Her campaign for the office of mayor of 
                        Richmond
                     in 1921 is a good example of triumphant principles in the midst of insufficient votes.
                    Less than a year after Hoosier women had won the vote, White filed her candidacy for the
                    mayor's position. Democracy demanded leadership from its women, she believed; merely voting
                    was not enough. She told Beveridge, now her political confidant, that she had collected many pledges
                    of support. "I believe I have a fair chance of success, she wrote."47 Winning the Republican primary in 
                        Richmond
                     was usually tantamount to victory in the general election, and eight Republicans,
                    including White, attempted to unseat the incumbent, Dr. W. W. Zimmerman.48
                    Limited financial resources prevented White from conducting more than a perfunctory campaign,
                    although she did pay a neighborhood boy a dollar to distribute fliers in her behalf. White came in
                    fourth, but her feminist friends rejoiced that she had outpolled four other male candidates.49 Moral victories aside, White lost the primary and did not take it lightly.
                    She complained of sex discrimination to a prominent 
                        Quaker
                     in town; Quakers, she argued, had always stood "for the equality of women and
                    they should be the last to dodge behind that argument that this town should not have a mayor because
                    she is a woman."50
            
            Gender may have contributed to White's defeat in 1921, but it became less important as an
                    issue in later campaigns. By 1926 when she entered the Republican primary for
                    Congress—the first woman in Indiana to seek a seat in the national House of
                    Representatives—three women were already members of Congress; and prohibition of
                    alcoholic beverages had become the major issue. White declared that her work as a journalist,
                    covering police and court news, had made it clear that the Eighteenth Amendment and its
                    "bone dry" enforcement in Indiana was ineffective and was creating a legal
                    shambles. She campaigned, therefore, to modify the 
                  
                     46
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Item, April 17, May 5, 1920.
                  
                     47 White to Beveridge, undated, Box 230, Beveridge Collection. White
                            and Beveridge had become friends after her unsuccessful attempt to find employment using his
                            influence.
                  
                     48
                            The Little Paper, April 25, 1921.
                  
                     49 Interview with Ed Kaeuper; 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, August 24, 1921.
                  
                     50 White to Timothy Nicholson, undated, copy, File I, White Collection
                            (Earlham College Archives).
               
                    
                    
                  POLITICAL ADVERTISEMENT 1926
                  Esther Griffin White Collection; courtesy Earlham College Archives, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana.
               
                     statutes to make prohibition enforceable. This distinctive
                    stand aroused national interest, and accounts of her campaign appeared in newspapers in
                            
                  New York, Chicago, Atlanta, Washington, Detroit
               , and 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , many of which featured her picture, complete with flamboyant hat.51 White's employer, a staunch prohibitionist, would not grant her any time for
                    campaigning, but attacks from the Anti-Saloon League and the Women's Christian Temperance
                    Union gave her much free publicity. Her major opponent, the incumbant congressman, was an avowed
                    "dry," and his stand polarized the campaign even though White was not a
                    "wet" and was frequently quoted as saying that she had never tasted anything
                    stronger than tea.52 The incumbant won the primary, but White, who had come in
                    second among three candidates,53 vowed following the race to continue her
                    crusade for legislation that would accomplish, not inhibit, prohibition. True to her word, she ran
                    again for the congressional seat in 1928. The issue remained the same as before, as did the results.
                    Her principles, however firmly held and publicized, did not convert enough voters to her cause.54
            
            White's final foray into the electoral arena in 1938 revealed her principles still flying
                    high, but her eccentricities flying higher. She was sixty-nine years old, angry at the local
                    newspaper for firing her that year, and estranged from the Republican party, which she felt had
                    never adequately supported her despite her many efforts in its behalf. She ran for mayor of 
                        Richmond
                     once again, this time as an Independent. A handful of her friends met in her home in
                    September to create an Independent party and nominate her as its candidate. They received
                    incorporation papers in October and then left White pretty much on her own to run the campaign.55 She resuscitated The Little Paper, and the front page of the November issue
                    boldly proclaimed: "HELLO, EVERYBODY! THIS IS ESTHER GRIFFIN WHITE … REMEMBER
                    ME? I'M THE INDEPENDENT CANDIDATE FOR MAYOR." She listed a few planks from her
                    platform, such as strict enforcement of traffic laws and better protection of shade trees, but her
                    major plank was personal. "I'm going to be frank," she wrote.
                    "My sole and only purpose in running for mayor is for the salary."56 As a serious candidate in 1921, and again in 1926 and 1928, White had endured her
                    losses somewhat philosophically. Now, in a frivolous campaign, 
                  
                     51 Politics folders, File VI, ibid.
                  
                  
                     52 Maund interview with White.
                  
                     53
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Item, May 5, 1926.
                  
                     54 White, "Reply to Indiana Anti-Saloon League,"
                            April, 1928, copy, File VI, White Collection (Earlham College Archives).
                  
                     55 Minutes of 1st Meeting of Independent Party of 
                                Richmond
                            , September 16, 1938, ibid.; Incorporation of Independent Party of 
                                Richmond
                            , October 6, 1938, ibid.
                  
                  
                     56
                            The Little Paper, November, 1938.
               
                    
                    
                  Esther Griffin White Collection; courtesy Earlham College Archives, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana.
               
                     she was less generous about defeat. What disappointed her more
                    than losing was that she had been ignored, and she waged an attack on the local press for not giving
                    her meager efforts any coverage.57 Apparently the mixture of printer's
                    ink and politics in her blood demanded public documentation of her decline.
            White, whose creative instincts and bohemian temperament were better suited to the arts than to
                    politics, left a more valuable legacy through her cultural pursuits than through her political
                    activities. Her brother Ray, who had been a cartoonist and had worked in several artistic media, had
                    undoubtedly intensified her appreciation for the fine arts; and in her travels White gravitated to
                    museums, concerts, and art galleries. As a journalist she had access to outlets for publicizing her
                    artistic interests and of course was not shy about using them. Whether as poet, author, impresario
                    of cultural programs, or patroness of local artists, White considered it her mission to raise 
                        Richmond
                    's artistic tastes to a higher level. One of her acquaintances from Yale
                    University assessed her work admiringly when he wrote, "you have done all kinds of good
                    things as an awakener."58
            
            White's aesthetic goals and financial needs helped turn her into an energetic artistic
                    impresario. 
                        Richmond
                    's population in the early twentieth century—18,000 in 1900 to
                    26,000 in 1920—could not support a local orchestra, opera, or professional theater.59 Persons wishing to attend such performances traveled to
                            
                  Dayton, Cincinnati
               , and 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The National Road and several rail and in-terurban lines passed through 
                        Richmond
                    , making these artistic pilgrimages possible. They also brought to less venturesome
                    local audiences a steady diet of traveling vaudeville acts. White's newspaper reviews of
                    these shows revealed her growing impatience with their lack of refinement and her desire for better
                    cultural fare. If she could attract a higher level of artistic performance, her cultural appetite
                    might be satisfied; and if these attractions were financially successful, they would supplement her
                    always sparse bank account. With these dual motives she brought to 
                        Richmond
                     a wide variety of attractions not previously available.
            For roughly a decade White worked with booking agents to acquire suitable attractions at affordable
                    costs. After negotiating a contract, she would reserve a theater, sports arena, or hotel lobby in
                    which to hold the event and through her newspaper columns, fliers, and personal contacts would
                    generate interest and promote ticket sales. Sometimes she would entertain the visiting artists with
                    receptions, teas, or dinners in her home. Programs distributed 
                  
                     57
                            Ibid., February 11, 1939.
                  
                     58 William L. Phelps to White, September 3, 1917, File V, White
                            Collection (Earlham College Archives).
                  
                     59 U. S., Fourteenth Census, 1920: Vol. I, Population, 83.
               
                    
                    
                  CONCERT ADVERTISEMENT ESTHER GRIFFIN WHITE, IMPRESARIO 1913
                  Esther Griffin White Collection; courtesy Earlham College Archives, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana.
               
                     at performances generally displayed her name as prominently as
                    that of the artist, and her newspaper review of the event was invariably positive. Few people seemed
                    to resent these obvious conflicts of interest, and many—although not all—of
                    her productions realized a profit. Among those appearing in 
                        Richmond
                     under White's auspices were Lady Augusta Gregory, the Irish actress and
                    playwright (1915); the 
                        Minneapolis
                     Symphony Orchestra and the Russian Symphony Orchestra of 
                        New York
                     (1913 and 1917); Alfred Kremborg, the American poet (1926); and Margaret Sanger, a
                    lecturer on birth control (1922).60
            
            Tenor Carl Morris's song recital in September, 1912, generated the most publicity of all
                    White's impresarial activities. White booked this performance at the 
                        Murray
                     Theatre for a Sunday afternoon in willful violation of the 1908 Indiana "blue
                    law" that prohibited theatrical events on the Sabbath. Uncompromised principles fully
                    evident, she thumbed her nose at the controversial statute. In her newspaper column she protested
                    that she would not try to avoid breaking the law by including in the concert only the sacred music
                    that was permissable under the blue law. "Good music," she insisted, "is
                    always a propos, anytime, any place."61 The 
                        Richmond
                     Ministerial Association denounced the forthcoming event, but ticket sales moved
                    briskly, perhaps in anticipation of an altercation between the feisty impresario and law enforcement
                        officials.62 The county prosecutor pointed out to White that Section 2364 of
                    the 1908 Burns Statutes defined theatrical performances as common labor, therefore illegal. He
                    indicated that other commercial enterprises were watching to see if they, too, could transact
                    business on Sunday without paying the consequences. "If they arrest you and bring you
                    before me," he warned her, "it will be clearly my duty under the law to prosecute
                        you."63 Later at the sold-out performance attended by much of 
                        Richmond
                    's "society," two policemen made half-hearted attempts to
                    arrest White but failed to follow through. A favorable review of the performance followed the next
                    day, accompanied by an announcement that police would not "interfere" with future
                    Sunday concerts due to public support for them. Three years later White was still chortling at the
                    expense of the two policemen whose nerve had faltered on that dramatic September Sunday.64 Exaggerated versions of how she bludgeoned the blue law have since become
                    legends.
            
               
                  60 File V (Agent File), White Collection (Earlham College Archives);
                        interviews with Susan Castator and Mary Lane Hiatt.
               
                  61
                        
                            Richmond
                        
                        Palladium, August 27, 1912.
               
                  62
                        
                            Richmond
                        
                        Palladium-Item, September 6, 1954.
               
                  63 Joshua H. Allen to White, September 21, 1912, File VI, White Collection
                        (Earlham College Archives).
               
                  64
                        
                            Richmond
                        
                        Palladium and 
                            Richmond
                        
                        Item, September 23, 1912; The Little Paper, November 2,
                        1915.
            
            
            Aesthetic and financial impulses also motivated White to write and publish poetry. Encouraged in this
                    endeavor by her brother Robert and by Boyd, she was writing poems as early as age eleven and
                    publishing collections of them as late as age seventy. She committed to paper hundreds of
                    poems—primarily sonnets— about things that brought her happiness. Once on
                    paper these ruminations often helped to fill a newspaper column or, occasionally, were sold to help
                    pay bills. Within her highly disciplined lines is a wealth of testimony to her love for her
                    brothers, close friends, music, art, and nature. She revealed in rhyme many happy memories and a
                    tender sensibility rarely displayed elsewhere. The sonnet "Abington 
                        Pike
                    " commemorates the joy she realized from hiking along one of her favorite 
                        Wayne County
                     routes.
            
                    It winds and curves through lovely rural scenes,
                    And twines round the river's rocky rim,
                    Through green wheat-fields and lanes and woodside dim
                    Where blue-birds flutter and the red-bud leans
                    Upon the dogwood's snowy breast …
                    … This road means
                    A Sunday afternoon in budding May,
                    With turquoise sky and clouds of dazzling white,
                    And little lapping breezes and the song
                    Of water over stones—and laughter gay—
                    And blue larkspur and melt of gold sunlight
                    To silver moon's enchanting shadows long.65
               
                
            White took the writing of her poems seriously. She commented once about the "exquisite
                    pleasure there was in composition,"66 and she revised constantly to
                    achieve her desired effect. Sometimes typing, often writing on the backs of bills or newspaper
                    stationery, she worked diligently at her craft.67 As a member of the Western
                    Association of Writers, she attended conferences to meet other poets and to sharpen her skills by
                    reciting her work and critiquing that of others. In 1915 White proclaimed James Whitcomb Riley
                    "the greatest living poet," and she corresponded and visited with him frequently.
                    She and African American poet Paul Laurence Dunbar sustained a close friendship for several years,
                    exchanging poems, suggestions, and visits between their homes.68
            
            White's poems—like others at the turn of the century—appeared
                    irregularly in local and regional newspapers. Critical reaction was 
                  
                     65 White, Poems about 
                                    Richmond
                                
                      (
                                Richmond
                            , Ind., 1937); Harriet Wadsworth, interview with author, July 27, 1987.
                  
                     66 White Journal, September 5, 1910.
                  
                     67 File III (Poetry Folders), White Collection (Earlham College
                            Archives).
                  
                     68
                            The Little Paper, November 9, 1915; White Journal, September 13, 1910;
                            Paul Laurence Dunbar to White, undated, File VII, White Collection (Earlham College
                            Archives).
               
                     mixed. The editor of In Which, a small poetry
                    journal in 
                        Detroit
                    , read one of her verses and wrote to her for permission to reprint it in his
                    publication. White agreed, and their continuing correspondence gave her much positive support for
                    her literary efforts.69 On the other hand, when the postman once delivered in
                    the mail a sarcastic parody of a poem that she had recently published in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star, she flew into a rage that lasted for hours and then stretched for pages in
                    her diary.70 Her work is now dismissed as of little or no importance. Arthur W.
                    Shumaker gives her but scant mention in his standard history of Indiana writers, and her poetry is
                    not included in either of the two recent anthologies of Hoosier writing compiled by Richard E. Banta
                    and A. L. Lazarus.71
            
            Regardless of the merit of her poems, White gathered them into four booklets and several random
                    pamphlets, some of which were illustrated with photographs or artwork by her friends. She sold these
                    collections for a dollar or less, depending on her financial situation at the time. In
                        the Orchestra (1915) thematically featured a sonnet about, and a pen-and-ink sketch of,
                    each orchestral instrument. Likewise, In the Garden (1935) was a collection of
                    verses, each devoted to a different flower, many of which grew in the backyard where White
                    frequently served tea to guests.72
                    Poems about 
                            Richmond
                        
                (1937) described her family, scenic spots, and favorite haunts. White
                    published the final booklet, Passion's Jewels (1939), strictly for
                    financial gain. In its preface she admitted that a banker's obligation had to be met and
                    that the poems were marketed for that purpose. On occasion White would sell one poem packaged in
                    attractive folio fashion; St. Andrew's Bells, named for a church in her
                    neighborhood, appeared twice with illustrations by two different artists.73
            
            Bookplates—small paper rectangles for pasting inside books to identify
                    ownership—constituted a minor art form at the turn of the century. White collected them,
                    wrote a book about them, and eventually became one of the acknowledged authorities in the field. Her
                    book was also one of the first substantial studies of Indiana art in general. Ray White designed a
                    personal bookplate for his sister with a portrait of her surrounded by books and immersed in
                    reading. 
                  
                     69 The 
                                Norman
                             Geddes-White correspondence for 1915 appears in File III, White Collection
                            (Earlham College Archives).
                  
                     70 White Journal, September 7, 1910.
                  
                     71 Authur W. Shumaker, A History of Indiana Literature
                                (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XLII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1962), 256; Richard E. Banta, selector, Hoosier Caravan: A
                                Treasury of Indiana Life and Lore (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1975); Arnold L. Lazarus, comp. and ed., The Indiana Experience:
                                An Anthology (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1977).
                  
                     72 Interviews with Elmer Porter and Jamie Cooper; White Journal,
                            August 30, 1910.
                  
                     73 Interview with Elmer Porter.
               
                     This gift, combined with White's love for books,
                    probably pushed her into her bookplate enterprises. She belonged to several Ex Libre societies in
                    American and Europe, wrote numerous articles about the field, and exhibited her collection in
                    galleries or libraries in 
                  Indianapolis, Richmond
               , and 
                        Fort Wayne
                    .74 The book itself, entitled Indiana Bookplates,
                    appeared in 1910 and was the product of years of research and exhaustive efforts at securing
                    bookplates from Indiana artists and notable Hoosiers. Two established publishers apparently wanted
                    to publish the volume, but White chose to have it printed in 
                        Richmond
                     where she could oversee all aspects of production. It cost her approximately
                    $350.00 for the 250 copies; and after she sold some for $2.50 and gave several
                    to friends and newspapers for reviews, she netted little if any profit.75
            
            
               Indiana Bookplates, approximately 170 pages long with 90 illustrations, featured
                    the work of such well-known Hoosier artists as painter William Forsyth and cartoonist Gaar Williams.
                    It also introduced to many readers the work of several unknown artisans, such as Mary Overbeck, who
                    would later gain fame in ceramics. White's brother Ray had the largest number of
                    illustrations in the book. Some of the notable Hoosiers whose commissioned bookplates appeared were
                    James Whitcomb Riley, Booth Tarkington, Charles Major, Edward Eggleston, and Indiana governor Thomas
                    R. Marshall. Indiana Bookplates is actually little more than an annotated
                    scrapbook. White wrote brief biographical material about most of the artists and collectors but made
                    little attempt to place either bookplates or the state in a broader perspective. Nevertheless, she
                    received some pleasant reviews, which she continued to quote for years. The 
                        New York
                    
                    Times and the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star both commented favorably on the volume, as did an Australian magazine, Art and Architecture.
               76 Analytical or not, the book
                    represented a unique contribution to Hoosier arts, if only as a compendium. White regarded its
                    publication as one of two lifetime accomplishments of which she was most proud; the other was being
                    the first Indiana woman to be listed on an official election ballot.77
            
            Perhaps of more significance than the compilation of illustrations in Indiana
                    Bookplates was the inclusion of essays about artists whom White admired. These accounts were
                    unrelated to the subject of the book and were, ultimately, of more value. She discussed 
                  
                     74 Scrapbook clippings, White Collection (Earlham College Archives).
                  
                     75 White Journal, September 21, 1910; 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium-Item, February 13, 1966.
                  
                     76
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, January 11, 1911; Scrapbook clippings, White Collection (Earlham
                            College Library); Maund interview with White; Kathleen R. Postle, The Chronicle
                                of the Overbeck Pottery (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1978).
                  
                     77
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium-Item, February 13, 1966.
               
                     the work of the Hoosier Group—T. C. Steele, Otto
                    Stark, J. Ottis Adams, and others—before other critics had canonized them. While not
                    denigrating the skill and rising fame of the Hoosier Group, she argued that its influence did not
                    extend far beyond the capital city, that it did not command a statewide "school"
                    of painters, and that it should be called, more correctly, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Group. In contrast, she extolled the virtues of 
                        Wayne County
                     artists John E. Bundy and Charles Conner, whose talents she compared favorably to the
                    finest in America. As "an awakener" she attempted to draw wider attention to local
                    artists. White praised Bundy as "one of the leading American landscapists" and
                    admired his "delicate, refined and exquisite art." Likewise, she stood in awe of
                    Conner's "astonishing talents" and his "faultless
                    draughtmanship." He was, she said, "an artist's artist."78
            
            These sincere, albeit gratuitous, essays on Bundy and Conner were not just filler for her bookplate
                    volume. White sought a broader audience and market for artists in east central Indiana. As a
                    free-lance journalist she sent many articles about local talent to magazines and regional
                    newspapers. She later recalled, "As I ballyhooed 
                        Richmond
                     artists, their names and activities became widely known."79 As a columnist for local papers White frequently reviewed a painting in the same way that
                    she assessed a symphony concert or theatrical production. In these columns she also reminded local
                    collectors that hometown artists needed purchasers of their work so that they would not have to seek
                    outside employment to sustain themselves. The pages of The Little Paper, in
                    particular, carried news of completed works, prizes won, and the activities and progress of her
                    current favorites.80 In addition to Bundy and Conner, White lavished praise and
                    encouragement on George H. Baker, whom she called "one of the greatest landscapists this
                    country has ever produced." Never one to hedge her opinions, she proclaimed that
                    "the Old Masters were the Bundys and Conners and Bakers of their day."81
            
            White's friendship with local artists was as warm as her praise was generous. She visited
                    their studios frequently, sometimes purchased their work when they needed funds, and entertained
                    them at her home for teas, parties, and dinners.82 Neighbors recall the often
                    raucous gatherings that spilled out into her flower garden and prompted gossip. One grateful guest
                    returned her generosity with a bit of free verse that described
                        
                     
                        78 Esther Griffin White, Indiana Bookplates (
                                    Richmond
                                , Ind., 1910), chapters II and X, unpaged.
                     
                        79 Maund interview with White.
                     
                        80
                                The Little Paper, August 7, 1915, July 1, 1916; 
                                    Richmond
                                
                                Palladium, June 14, 1912.
                     
                        81 Earlham College Earlham Press, October 9,
                                1920.
                     
                        82 Interview with Elmer Porter; White Journal, September 30,
                            1910.
                  
                        
                        
                        
                        
                     Reproduced from Esther Griffin White, Indiana Bookplates (
                                    Richmond
                                , Ind., 1910).
                  
                        
                        … this charming garden
                        Where visitors imbibe
                        That thing called art and culture
                        And wild bohemian life.
                        There is a hostess, charming too,
                        Who dishes out the tea …
                        And as to scandal whispered here
                        It's all a joke …83
                  
                     White's little brick townhouse also served as a private gallery and salon for her
                    circle of artists. Several rooms were covered from floor to ceiling with works that she had
                    purchased or received as gifts. On occasion she opened her home for tours and charged a small fee to
                    allow the public to view her collection.84 Adorning her walls and tables were
                    works by state luminaries such as Steele and Forsyth; regional artists Bundy, Conner, and Baker;
                    and, of course, several by her brother Ray. At the time of White's death the inventory of
                    her estate revealed that she owned more than one hundred pieces by her favorite painter, George H.
                    Baker, proving that she had been his patroness in deed as well as in word.85
                    Earlham College, where she had briefly studied, became the recipient of this extensive collection of
                    Indiana artists.
            The last sixteen years of White's life—from 1939 to 1954—were sad and
                    unproductive ones in which some of her eccentricities became grotesque and overshadowed her earlier
                    positive accomplishments. White was unemployed during these years; and, without a pension or steady
                    income, she resorted to selling her books of poetry and The Little Paper door to
                    door. She would plant herself in the doorway of hotel dining rooms, and when a civic club lunch
                    adjourned, members had to purchase copies of her publications in order to leave peacefully.
                    Neighbors and friends remember having to purchase her last book on several different occasions
                    whenever she was short of funds.86 When these literary sales proved inadequate,
                    White pawned family jewelry, secured loans using some of her art collection as collateral, and even
                    sold some of her beloved Baker paintings.87 Increasingly blind toward the end,
                    White grew 
                  
                     83 George E. Drury, poem to White, File I, White Collection (Earlham
                            College Archives).
                  
                     84 Interviews with Jamie Cooper and Louise Whisenhunt.
                  
                     85 Earlham College Earlham Press, October 9, 1920;
                            White estate appraisal, April 30, 1956, Probate Papers, Packet 203, 
                                Wayne County
                             Superior Court, 
                                Wayne County
                             Clerk's Office, 
                                Wayne County
                             Courthouse, 
                                Richmond
                            .
                  
                     86 Interviews with Esther Kellner and Francis Robinson; Robert White,
                            interview with author, July 30, 1987.
                  
                     87 Interview with Mary Gates; Record of loans, File I, White
                            Collection (Earlham College Archives); Loan certificate, Box I, Rudolph G. Leeds Collection
                            (Indiana University East Archives, 
                                Richmond
                            ); Will Book 31, p. 306, 
                                Wayne County
                             Clerk's Office.
               
                    
                    
                  ESTHER GRIFFIN WHITE 1930s OR 1940s
                  Esther Griffin White Collection; courtesy Earlham College Archives, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana.
               
                     progressively unkempt in appearance, and her home fell into a
                    state of dangerous disrepair. Neighbors observed her stumbling to a nearby grocery to purchase one
                    egg or potato and saw bats flying through broken windows of her home.88 She had
                    drifted away from her 
                        Quaker
                     church, her professional colleagues were dying, and her traditional aloofness became a
                    lonely—almost reclusive—existance. Church groups sent money and food baskets
                    to her; community leaders saw that her utilities were paid and her home mortgage not foreclosed.89 After her death most of her private belongings had to be sold to satisfy the
                    many claims on her estate.90 The once fiercely independent White had become
                    dependent on loan brokers, charities, and institutions.
            Beyond her obvious and memorable eccentricities, Esther Griffin White was an
                    "awakener" of Hoosier potential. She pioneered and prevailed in serious journalism
                    for roughly fifty years during a time when only a few females ventured outside the society section
                    of newspapers. Her longevity as a writer, editor, and publisher is alone significant. White was also
                    considerably influential during the crusade for women's suffrage. Her publicity work and
                    physical presence helped awaken many Hoosiers to the need for voting rights for women. Although a
                    perennial loser in campaigns for public office, White created a vibrant model for other women
                    wishing to emerge from political passivity. 
                        Richmond
                    's cultural life would have existed without White, but it would have been
                    poorer. Her impresarial activities, poetry, bookplates, and patronage of artists added color and
                    texture to the aesthetic richness of east central Indiana. Furthermore, White awakened in many
                    people a heightened sense of human, political, and artistic potential that had been dormant or
                    drowsy. A continued awareness, rather than a laconic gravestone, should be her legacy.
            
               
                  88 Interviews with Esther Kellner and Jamie Cooper; Argus Ogborn,
                        interview with author, August 8, 1986.
               
                  89 Interviews with Susan Castator, Argus Ogborn, Jamie Cooper; David W.
                        Dennis, interview with author, October 22, 1986; Luvena Dethridge, interview with author, August
                        1, 1987.
               
                  90 Probate Papers, Packet 203, 
                            Wayne County
                         Superior Court; interview with Elmer Porter.
            
         
         
         
            Chief Tomah's Reply: A Pacific Footnote on the Folklore of Tecumseh
            Robert G. Gunderson
            [Editor's Note: In January, 1990, the Indiana Magazine of
                        History received the following note from Robert G. Gunderson, Indiana University professor
                    emeritus of speech communication and history, concerning an article by Terry Rugeley,
                    "Savage and Statesman: Changing Historical Interpretations of Tecumseh," which
                    appeared in the December, 1989, issue of the magazine: "The author of the article on
                    Tecumseh invites folklore and the collection of apocrypha. So I am prompted to send you the enclosed
                    pacific footnote to his article—a published letter received by none other than the
                    hallowed Lyman Draper giving Chief Tomah's reply to Tecumseh's appeal to the
                    Menominees, presumably at Green Bay in 1810 or 1811." Professor Gunderson's
                    "pacific footnote" follows.]
            In a letter to Lyman C. Draper dated 
                  Pittsburgh,
                            Pennsylvania
               , January, 1854, James W.
                    Biddle relates the report "from several persons" concerning a council at Green Bay
                    in 1810 or 1811 when Tecumseh urged Chief Tomah and his Menominees to take the war path against
                    Americans. Tecumseh, in these reports, "pictured the glory, as well as certainty of
                    success," of war, and he "recapitulated … the number of battles he had
                    fought, the victories he had won, the enemies he had slain, and the scalps he had taken from the
                    heads of warrior-foes. Tomah appeared sensible of the influence of such an address upon his people,
                    and feared its consequence, for he was opposed to leading them into war. His reply was in a tone to
                    allay this feeling, and he closed with the remark to them, that they had heard words of
                    Tecumseh—heard of the battles he had fought, the enemies he had slain, and the scalps he
                    had taken." Tomah "then paused; and while the deepest silence reigned …
                    he slowly raised his hands, with his eyes fixed on them, and in a lower, but not less prouder tone,
                    continued but it is my
                    
                    boast that these hands are unstained with human blood!' The effect is
                    described as tremendous— … and admiration was forced even from those who could
                    not, or did not, approve of the moral to be implied, and the gravity of the council was disturbed,
                    for an instant, by a murmur of approbation—a tribute to genius, overpowering, at the
                    moment, the force of education and of habit."1
            
            
               
                  1 James W. Biddle, "Recollections of Green Bay in
                        1816–17" (Collections of the State Historical Society of 
                                Wisconsin
                            , Vol. I; 
                            Madison
                        , 1854), 49–63, quotations pp. 53–54.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Indiana: A New Historical Guide. By Robert M. Taylor, Jr., Errol Wayne Stevens,
                    Mary Ann Ponder, Paul Brockman. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1989. Pp. xii, 682. Maps, illustrations, index.
                    Clothbound, $45.00; paperbound, $19.95.)
            
               Indiana: A New Historical Guide was conceived by the staff of the Indiana
                    Historical Society more than a decade ago. Its ancestor, Indiana: A Guide to the
                        Hoosier State, had been published in 1941 as part of the Works Progress Administration
                    Federal Writers' Project for Indiana. The completion and publication of this earlier Guide were sponsored by Indiana State Teachers College (now Indiana State
                    University). It included an account of the history of the state, commentary about numerous
                    historical sites around the state, suggested tours for visiting them, and items about public
                    conveniences along the way such as motels and restaurants. The augmenting interest in state and
                    local history, increase in automobiles, expansion of improved roads, growing number of local
                    accommodations for travelers, and gain in leisure time for many individuals made this Guide extremely popular. It was generously and lavishly praised by numerous persons for
                    its historical information about Indiana and its descriptions of historical sites. At the same time
                    a number of historians and nonhistorians considered its historical information and descriptions of
                    sites very heavily sprinkled with distortions and errors of fact. For the most part this praise and
                    criticism were both justified!
            In 1978 the staff of the Indiana Historical Society decided to prepare and publish a revision of the
                    earlier Guide. Numerous sites described therein had disappeared; and others,
                    including many that were nonexistent in 1941, needed to be added. Indiana: A New
                        Historical Guide differs from the previous Guide in that it offers no
                    information about motels, restaurants, and other public conveniences; organizes its tours in a
                    circular rather than an elongated manner; and has no general account of the history of Indiana. This
                    new Guide consists entirely of information about its nineteen circular tours, with
                    emphasis on the descriptions of the more than two thousands sites that they embrace. With one
                    exception each tour is prefaced by a discussion of the history and current status of a
                    "lead city," which is one of the most important and largest cities on the tour
                    route. The Calumet Region is considered as the "lead city " for the tour in its
                    area. Maps make clear the route  to be followed for each tour,
                    and descriptions of items along the way provide explicit information concerning how to locate the
                    sites. With minor exceptions interstate highways are avoided. Tours may begin at any point on the
                    circle, hence may be completed in segments according to personal interest and convenience.
            
               Indiana: A New Historical Guide is indeed a new and not a revised
                    version of its ancestor. The authors wisely omitted items about motels, restaurants, and other
                    public conveniences, noting that this information is constantly changing and is now easily available
                    from other current sources. A concise history of Indiana, stressing leading trends and highlights,
                    would probably have been more useful to most users of the new Guide than the space
                    given to historical material on and the present status of the "lead cities," but
                    this is a moot point. Anticipating disagreement about some statements, the authors appropriately ask
                    "to be informed of possible errors and sources to correct them" (p. ix). Since the
                    sources on which this volume is based often differ concerning the facts for many items, occasional
                    errors are almost inevitable. It is to be expected that some users will wonder why certain sites are
                    included and other sites excluded. Doubtless some misjudgments have been made in this regard, but a
                    modern Solomon could not have made more than two thousand selections with complete consistency. All
                    such comments aside, here is a thoughtfully organized, carefully researched and written, very
                    informative Guide to Indiana's historical sites as of the late 1980s. The
                    Indiana Historical Society and the authors merit commendation for having performed an extremely
                    difficult task in a quite creditable manner.
            DONALD F. CARMONY is professor emeritus of history,
                    Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    .
         
         
            
               The Germans in 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1840–1918. By George Theodore Probst. Revised edition by Eberhard
                    Reichmann. (
                        Indianapolis
                        German
                    -American Center and Indiana 
                        German
                     Heritage Society, Inc., 1989. Pp. xi, 200. Maps, illustrations, tables, notes,
                    bibliography, appendix, index. Paperbound, $17.25.)
            It has taken nearly forty years for this revised Indiana University master's thesis to
                    receive its well-deserved publication. Editor Eberhard Reichmann exercised a light hand with textual
                    revisions but contributed a rich spectrum of illustrations that add greatly to the book.
            The work does show some of the shortcomings of its time. The top-down perspective predominates, and
                    the Vereinsdeutsche and the liberal freethinker elite often overshadow the more
                    numerous Kirchendeutsche and those of lower occupational status. Still, like only
                    a few leading 1950s scholars, Probst supplements this elite 
                    
                  INTERSECTION OF EAST AND NEW YORK STREETS, INDIANAPOLIS, 1893
                  First published in A. Wittemann, 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Illustrated, in Photo Gravure … (
                                New York
                            , 1983). Courtesy 
                                Indianapolis
                             Historic Preservation Commission.
               
                     perspective with information drawn from both published and
                    manuscript 
                        United States
                     census sources to profile the size, regional origins, and occupational makeup of the 
                        Indianapolis
                        German
                     community across the second half of the nineteenth century. He also makes a brief
                    excursion into oral history, interviewing five of the community's patriarchs (though ages
                    for four of them are not given). Other important sources include 
                        German
                     and English language newspapers and Festschriften and unpublished
                    records of fraternal organizations, churches, and the like.
            A more active editorial hand could have prevented several sins of commission and omission. The
                    section on Civil War politics is particularly outdated. If 
                        Indianapolis
                     Germans were mostly Republican as asserted, they stood in contrast to Germans in the
                    rest of the state. In fact, it remains questionable how far such support extended beyond the
                    freethinker community. The one Lutheran body cited as endorsing Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     also supported prohibition, hardly a sign of typicality. One of the most serious
                    omissions is the remarkable bilingual elementary school system in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , which rates only a couple of paragraphs since the Probst thesis predates the important
                    work by Frances H. Ellis published in this journal. Unfortunately, the informatively annotated
                    bibliography was left virtually unchanged. Here especially it would have been helpful to have an
                    update on the progress of 
                        Indianapolis
                        German
                     studies in the ensuing decades. Local readers will delight in the appended membership
                    lists of four of the most prestigious Vereine, a veritable Who's Who of 
                        German
                        Indianapolis
                     around 1900. For outsiders, it would be interesting to know where among the numerous
                    members of this distinguished 
                        Indianapolis
                     family author Kurt Vonnegut fits.
            In summary, this volume is a solid, welcome addition to the literature; it can provide a firm
                    foundation upon which to build a comprehensive study of 
                        Indianapolis
                     Germans that still needs to be written.
            WALTER D. KAMPHOEFNER, associate professor of history, 
                        Texas
                     A&M University, College Station, authored The Westfalians: From 
                            Germany
                         to 
                            Missouri
                        
                (
                        Princeton
                    , 1987). An anthology of immigrant letters that he coedited, Briefs aus
                        Amerika (Munich, 1988), is being translated for English publication with support from the
                    National Endowment for the Humanities.
         
         
            
               Indiana Railroad Depots: A Threatened Heritage. By Francis H. Parker. ([
                        Muncie
                    , Ind.]: Ball State University Department of Urban Planning, 1989. Pp. iv, 70.
                    Illustrations, bibliography. Paperbound, $8.00.)
            One transportation phenomenon during the past half-century has been the massive reduction in numbers
                    of active railroad stations. 
                    
                  BENNETTS SWITCH, INDIANA
                  
                  Courtesy Francis H. Parker.
                The rate of reduction, in fact, accelerated in the 1960s and 1970s. By the 1980s few
                    depots in Indiana or elsewhere continued to be used for railroad purposes; those that remain serve
                    Amtrak patrons or shelter railroad maintenance crews and their equipment. Technology and changing
                    patterns of commerce have made the railroad station structure nearly obsolete. Radios, computers,
                    company mergers, and, most of all, massive line abandonments have contributed to the demise of the
                    once ubiquitous "deepo."
            Yet some railroad stations still dot the Indiana landscape. Francis H. Parker, member of the
                    Department of Urban Planning, Ball State University, 
                        Muncie
                    , has painstakingly inventoried the state's remaining depots from both
                    "steam" and "juice" railroads, the latter the principal physical
                    remnants of the great electric interurban era that collapsed during the 1930s. Of the nearly 1,500
                    depots that served residents on the eve of World War I, only about 250 still stand. After
                    introducing the depots in a Hoosier context, Parker provides a richly illustrated section on extant
                    depots, organized on a county-by-county basis. He also offers a thumbnail sketch of each
                    building's history. This approach is a fresh and valuable way to consider railroad
                    stations. Parker's work, it is hoped, will contribute to protection of some of these
                    buildings. As Parker rightly argues, "inventorying those that survive may enable register
                         nomination and other special actions taken to preserve at
                    least a representative sample of railroad depots. As the number of survivors shrinks, it becomes
                    more critical to save what we can of this vanishing Indiana heritage" (p. 1).
            H. ROGER GRANT is professor of history, the University of
                            
                  Akron, Akron, Ohio
               . He is the author,
                    coauthor, coeditor, or editor of seven volumes, including The Country Railroad
                    Station in America (revised edition, 1988). He is presently at work on another book-length
                    study, "
                        Erie
                     Lackawanna: Death of an American Railroad, 1938–1991."
         
         
            
               Power From Oil: The Life and Times of John Alstyne Secor, Inventor. By William
                    H. C. Higgins. (Phoenix, Ariz.: William H. C. Higgins, 1988. Pp. xv, 301. Illustrations, maps,
                    graphs, appendixes, tables, sources, index. $24.95.)
            Thomas P. Hughes's American Genesis (
                        New York
                    , 1989) interprets the American experience after 1870 as "a century of
                    invention and technological enthusiasm." National enthusiasm for technology led to the
                    creation of the mythic hero-inventor as personified by Thomas A. Edison. As Hughes's work
                    demonstrates, however, such classic nineteenth-century independent inventor-entrepreneurs were
                    supplanted during the early years of the twentieth century by university-educated scientists and
                    engineers whose livelihood depended on their employment in corporate research and development.
            The career of John Alstyne Secor (1847–1935) spanned these two eras of American ingenuity.
                    The son of a 
                        New York
                     manufacturer of marine steam boilers, Secor sought to replace propeller-driven
                    steamships with a novel pulse-jet propulsion system. After more than twenty years of
                    experimentation, technical and financial success still eluded the would-be independent
                    inventor-entrepreneur. Secor's fortunes improved with the 1899 reorganization of his firm
                    and its commerical production of an efficient kerosenefueled internal combustion engine designed to
                    power small independent electric lighting systems in rural areas. After substantial improvements to
                    its carburetor and ignition, Secor's kerosene engine came to the attention of the M. Rumely
                    Company of 
                        La Porte
                    , Indiana, in 1907.
            The Rumely Company was a regionally significant manufacturer of agricultural steam engines and
                    threshing machinery. Rumely, like other steam traction engine makers, could not ignore the example
                    of the burgeoning automobile industry where the internal combustion engine had proved its
                    superiority over steam as a safe, light-weight, mobile power source. Secor's transition
                    from independent inventor-entrepreneur to industrial engineer occurred in 1908 with the sale of his
                    patents to Rumely and his agreement to join the firm as chief engineer. The product that resulted
                    from  this agreement was the Rumely Oil Pull tractor powered by
                    a two-cylinder kerosene engine of Secor's design. Between 1910 and 1930 more than 58,000
                    Oil Pulls were manufactured. Regarded by contemporaries as the most reliable of the first generation
                    of American farm tractors, the Rumely Oil Pull is today the beloved treasure of antique tractor
                    enthusiasts.
            In the hands of a historian of technology the life and times of John Alstyne Secor could be an
                    article-length story of considerable interest. Unfortunately, that story as told at book-length by
                    William H. C. Higgins is not. Power From Oil, written and privately printed by
                    Secor's grand-nephew, is a filiopietistic compendium replete with geneaological
                    digressions. Based on personal reminiscences, family scrapbooks, and an occasional secondary source,
                        Power From Oil does not offer much of interest to even the most dedicated
                    Rumely Oil Pull devotee.
            PETER H. COUSINS, curator, Henry Ford Museum & 
                        Greenfield
                     Village, 
                  Dearborn, Michigan
               , frequently writes on the history of American agricultural
                    technology.
         
         
            
               Minnesota in a Century of Change: The State and Its People Since 1900. Edited by
                    Clifford E. Clark, Jr. (
                        St. Paul
                    : Minnesota Historical Society Press, 1989. Pp. xiii, 607. Maps, illustrations, notes,
                    tables, graphs, index. Clothbound, $35.95; paperbound, $19.95.)
            This is a tasty "hotdish" of fresh analysis, not an anthology of previously served
                    leftovers thrown between two covers. Seventeen scholars, ten of them historians or specialists in
                    American studies, have prepared essays on as many topics. The 
                        St. Paul
                     Companies provided funding for the venture on the occasion of the 125th anniversary of
                    its founding.
            The editor leads off by inviting readers to compare images and visions of Minnesota with
                    twentieth-century realities. Thomas J. Baerwald follows with an examination of how and why
                    Minnesotans have modified their landscape. Urban centers and small towns then come under scrutiny by
                    John R. Borchert and Thomas Harvey respectively. Thereafter, the scene shifts to rural 
                        Minnesota
                    , which David L. Nass concludes still has its appeal. Next, Arnold R. Alanen examines
                    the iron range. Perceptive Hoosiers will see connections with Gary and the coal fields of Indiana.
                    Peter Rachleff then identifies three turning points in Minnesota labor history, the most recent
                    being the bitter Hormel strike of the mid-1980s.
            Two essays work well together at the core of the book—Kirk Jeffrey's
                    "The Major Manufacturers: From Food and Forest Products to High Technology" and D.
                    Jerome Tweton's "The Business of Agriculture." As Jeffrey points out, the
                    dawn of automation brought the merger in 1927 of two rival companies—Honeywell 
                    
                  THOMAS O'CONNOR DELIVERING
                            THE MAIL IN LE SUEUR COUNTY, MINNESOTA, ABOUT 1910
                  Courtesy Minnesota Historical Society, 
                                St. Paul
                            .
                Heating Specialties Company of 
                        Wabash
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Minneapolis
                     Heat Regulator. Since then, Honeywell has developed into a major research and
                    development firm headquartered in 
                        Minneapolis
                    .
            Next, George S. Hage examines print and broadcast journalism. A well-placed photograph of election
                    judges standing, hands folded, in front of a rural voting site helps Daniel J. Elazar clinch his
                    interpretation of Minnesota as "A Model of Moralism in Government." An inevitable
                    problem with a volume of this nature is that things fall between the cracks. For example, Hage
                    laments the difficulty of maintaining first amendment rights, Elazar advances his thesis
                    brilliantly, and John E. Haynes examines "Reformers, Radicals, and Conservatives"
                    as well as that remarkable phenomenon—the Minnesota Democratic-Farmer-Labor party. Yet
                    nowhere in the book is Warren E. Burger located on the political spectrum or even mentioned.
            David Beaulieu's section on Indians ends on a note of hope; persistence is the theme of
                    Marjorie Bingham's essay on Minnesota women. Clarke A. Chambers's
                    "Educating for the Future" should be read by educators and citizens throughout the 
                        United States
                    .  Indiana could benefit from a similar, penetrating
                    analysis. The book winds down with Richard M. Chapman's account of "Religious
                    Belief and Behavior" and concludes with "Culture and Leisure: `The Good Life in 
                        Minnesota
                    '" by Karal Ann Marling. Its title notwithstanding, the last essay is
                    mostly about popular culture.
            This is a fine book, worthy of emulation, whose graphics and editing merit special commendation. The
                    preface promises "a multifaceted view of the transitions and sometimes dramatic changes
                    that have affected the people of Minnesota since 1900" (p. viii), and the book fulfills the
                    promise.
            PETER T. HARSTAD is executive director of the Indiana
                    Historical Society. He attended a one-room school in Sherburne County, 
                        Minnesota
                     (which he insists was located not far from Lake Wobegon). While development officer at
                    his alma mater, Bethany Lutheran College in 
                        Mankato
                    , he edited a book about a Minnesota clergyman and educator, Sigurd
                        Christian Ylvisaker (
                        Mankato
                    , 1984).
         
         
            
               Historians of the American Frontier: A Bio–Bibliographical
                    Sourcebook. Edited by John R. Wunder. (
                        New York
                    : Greenwood Press, 1988. Pp. xiii, 814. Bibliographies, index. $75.00.)
            John R. Wunder set a daunting task for himself in manhandling the work of fifty-seven writers into
                    this anthology on historians of the American frontier. Despite the usual unevenness present in any
                    such collaborative work, the book is a remarkable success with almost all the essays being
                    informative, well written, analytical, and useful.
            Wunder established a firm pattern for each essay: they should contain biographical information;
                    develop themes; analyze written work; and include a bibliography of published work. Essays vary in
                    the quality of each of these categories, but the framework gives unity to the book. Since each
                    subject chosen for inclusion had to be deceased and since some commissioned essays on notable
                    historians failed to be completed, there are a few important omissions. Some of those included, such
                    as Stewart Holbrook, are surprising, but for the most part all are defensible choices. The
                    biographies range from preeminent scholars such as Frederick 
                        Jackson
                     Turner (in a particularly fine essay by Richard White), Walter Prescott Webb, and Ray
                    Allen Billington to popular historians such as Stanley Vestal and Marquis James and to literary
                    historians like Mari Sandoz and Bernard DeVoto.
            Readers of this magazine will be particularly interested in the essays on Hoosier historians John D.
                    Barnhart by Deborah J. Hoskins; Beverley W. Bond, Jr., by Andrew R. L. Cayton; R. Carlyle Buley by
                    Carl Ubbelohde; and Oscar O. Winther by Bonny and Richard Van Orman. In fact, the collection is
                    dominated by biographies of midwestern historians, a reflection no doubt of the high quality of
                    midwestern colleges and universities and of the emphasis  on
                    frontier studies that dominated historical higher education throughout much of this century.
            The price of this collection will limit its availability to many potential readers, but it is well
                    worth a trip to the library to consult. Along with two recent historiographical anthologies on the
                    frontier edited by Michael P. Malone and Roger L. Nichols, this fine collection will prove of great
                    value to students of the American frontier. It will likely prove useful as a sourcebook to students
                    of American education as well.
            PAUL ANDREW HUTTON is associate
                    professor of history and editor of the New 
                        Mexico
                     Historical Review, University of New 
                        Mexico
                    , Albuquerque.
         
         
            
               Encyclopedia of Southern Culture. Edited by Charles Reagan Wilson and William
                    Ferris; Ann J. Abadie and Mary L. Hart, associate editors. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, sponsored by the Center for the Study of Southern Culture at the University of 
                        Mississippi
                    , 1989. Pp. xxi, 1634. Illustrations, bibliographies, maps, tables, figures, indexes.
                    $59.95.)
            
               The Encyclopedia of the Midwest. By Allan Carpenter. (
                        New York
                    : Facts on File, Inc., 1989. Pp. iv, 544. Illustrations, table, maps, bibliography,
                    index. $35.00.)
            The practice of dividing territories, peoples, and systems into regions is a time-honored method of
                    distributing effort and bringing government and services closer to the people they are meant to
                    serve and, of course, controlling large-scale operations, from a federal judiciary system and the
                    Federal Reserve Banking System to the regional divisions of American Telephone and Telegraph. The
                    region in this sense is often an arbitrary unit with little history other than that emanating from
                    its institutional origins. Concepts of region and regionalism in American history, however, do
                    assume an objective existence as distinctive units existing in space and time with a clear cultural
                    identity. A body of scholarly literature is wrapped around every significant region of the 
                        United States
                    . Histories from Frederick 
                        Jackson
                     Turner's The Rise of the New West, 1819–1829
                    (1906) to Merrill Jensen's Regionalism in America (1951) sought to
                    explain American history and culture in terms of tensions between regions of the country. During the
                    decades of the 1960s and 1970s historians were preoccupied with studying the dynamics of relatively
                    small units: communities, neighborhoods, ethnic and gender groups. During the 1980s, however,
                    scholars in general and historians in particular have shown a renewed interest in regions and
                    regionalism. As evidence of this phenomenon one need only point to the growing number of centers for
                    the study of a particular region and of course lately to encyclopedic  descriptions of regions such as the two currently under consideration.
            These two encyclopedias not only survey different regions of the country but approach them in
                    markedly different ways. Allan Carpenter's Encyclopedia of the Midwest is
                    a routine reference work giving factual data on events, people, towns, cities, and institutions
                    within the eight-state area (
                        Illinois
                    , Indiana, 
                  Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Ohio
               , and 
                        Wisconsin
                    ) arbitrarily selected to represent the Midwest. The jacket blurb asserts that thus the
                    region "now … . is defined, in lucid and fascinating detail." The
                    author makes no such claim to definition, and indeed the Encyclopedia makes no
                    effort to define the region. In fact, there is no entry on the Middle West and only very short
                    entries on the Northwest Ordinance and Northwest Territory. Indiana is adequately covered although
                    the volume contains no article on the etymology of "Hoosier." The work is arranged
                    alphabetically with a name and subject index. The bibliography is highly selective and extremely
                    dated. Carpenter, the president of Facts on File, Inc., previously compiled similar encyclopedias
                    for each of the states included in the volume.
            Charles Reagan Wilson and William Ferris have, on the other hand, compiled a truly path-breaking work
                    of collective scholarship in their Encyclopedia of Southern Culture. The volume
                    attempts to define what is distinctive about southern culture and at the same time come to grips
                    with the concept of region and regionalism. In an excellent introduction, in which definitions of
                    region and regionalism as well as of culture are examined, the editors assert that "the
                    goal of the volume is to chart the cultural landscape of the South, addressing those aspects of
                    southern life and thought that have sustained either the reality or the illusion of regional
                    distinctiveness" (p. xvi). They recognize that all the topics that are taken up are by no
                    means uniquely southern, but they asked contributors to "explore particular regional
                    aspects of those topics" (p. xvi). Generally the authors of the articles hew to this line.
                    Inevitably, however, subjects that are regionally distinctive are mixed with and treated equally
                    with subjects that neither have a unique regional flavor nor contribute to "southern
                    distinctiveness." Rather, in many cases one might argue that they are evidence of the
                    disappearance of distinctiveness. Questions of homogenization and standardization—what is
                    national and what is regional and why—are often not addressed. Even Editor Charles Reagan
                    Wilson in his article on tennis gives a short national history of the sport, asserting that it is no
                    different in the South than it is elsewhere; then, to provide a southern connection he mentions the
                    fact that Chris Evert comes from 
                        Florida
                    , Althea Gibson from 
                        North Carolina
                    , and Arthur Ashe from 
                        Virginia
                    . This mix is the 
                    
                  A MISSISSIPPI DELTA PLANTATION OWNER (FOREGROUND), 1930s
                  Photograph by Dorothea Lang; courtesy Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.
               
                    
                  STREET CORNER IN NEW ORLEANS, 1940
                  Photograph by Marion Post Wolcott; courtesy Library of Congress. 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.
               
                     inevitable consequence of attempting to be as broad as
                    possible, to cover the "cultural landscape."
            The volume's 1,600 pages are divided into twenty-four topics, each with a general survey
                    article and then shorter essays listed alphabetically. Unfortunately for the reader seeking specific
                    information, the topic headings are often idiosyncratic. Sections contain a melange of rather
                    unrelated subjects, the most flagrant example of which is the section labeled History and Manners,
                    which begins with an excellent long essay on the history of the South by Wilson followed by an
                    article on the automobile. Between the essays on the Revolutionary Era and the Spanish American War
                    is sandwiched an article on "Sexuality." The Jack Daniels distillery gets separate
                    treatment, but it might well have been included in the essay on "Whiskey," which,
                    by the way, is preceded by one on George 
                        Washington
                     and followed by one on Woodrow Wilson. On the other hand, sections on Black Life, Law,
                    and the Mythic South are excellent and internally consistent. With the exception of a short article
                    on "Aristocracy," the section on Social Class contains mostly essays on labor
                    history and the working class. The section on Women's Life is interesting, but other than
                    gender the rationale connecting the group of biographical sketches at the end of the section is
                    unclear. For example, Althea Gibson, a black tennis player, is included in the Women's Life
                    section, not in Black Life or Recreation, whereas Herschel Walker, a black football player, is
                    included in Recreation and not in Black Life. All of this puts a heavy burden on the
                    cross-referencing system, which is generally good but occasionally breaks down, as when an article
                    on the "Fighting South" in the section on the Mythic South fails to
                    cross-reference to articles on violence in the section on Violence. The comprehensive index, which
                    is essential to the use of this encyclopedia, includes no citation to Indiana although most
                    certainly the state deserves mention. Southern Indiana, at least in the early nineteenth century,
                    had strong ties with the South as a result of heavy southern migrations.
            All in all, the Encyclopedia of the Midwest is a handy fact book, whereas the Encyclopedia of Southern Culture is a monument of scholarship and will be
                    considered a landmark in the American studies movement.
            DAVID D. VAN TASSEL is Elbert Jay
                    Benton professor and chairman of the Department of History, Case Western Reserve University,
                            
                  Cleveland, Ohio
               . He is author of numerous books and articles on American
                    historiography and old-age policy. He is the editor of The Encyclopedia of 
                            Cleveland
                         History (1987) and is working on an encyclopedia of midwestern history and
                    culture.
         
         
            
               Pastoral Inventions: Rural Life in Nineteenth-Century American Art and Culture.
                    By Sarah Burns. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : Temple University Press, 1989. Pp. xi, 377. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $39.95.)
            
               Pastoral Inventions is an analysis of nineteenth-century pictorial images of rural
                    life in the northern 
                        United States
                    . The volume  concentrates on the works of fine
                    artists, such as William 
                        Sidney
                     Mount and Winslow Homer, and on the wood-engraved illustrations, principally those by
                    Currier and Ives, that appeared in popular middle-class periodicals. The focus is primarily on
                    settled agrarian life in the Northeast, especially rural New 
                        England
                     and 
                        New York
                    ; little attention is paid to depictions of life in the South or on the frontier. Over
                    the course of the nineteenth century middle-class Americans encountered changing and contradictory
                    visions of the countryside. Sarah Burns organizes her discussion into three sections and numerous
                    chapters that develop a roughly chronological progression of these images.
            Before the Civil War rural folk were depicted as the repositories of virtue, and agrarian life was
                    seen as the moral foundation of the American social order, even as the changing economic realities
                    of northern agriculture undermined the material bases of that ideology. After 1865 the increasing
                    dominance of the city led to a series of contradictory stereotypes of the countryside that both
                    celebrated and demeaned farmers and rustic ways. Finally, by the end of the century rural life was
                    again celebrated, not as the center of American civilization but as a nostalgic symbol of an America
                    that had been lost to the corruption and decay of urban life.
            The chief value of Pastoral Inventions is as a compilation of 157 fascinating, and
                    sometimes obscure, images of northern rural life. From the point of view of cultural history, Burns
                    deals mainly with the pictorial dimensions of already familiar themes—the disparities
                    between the agrarian myth and actual conditions in the countryside and the tensions between urban
                    and rural society. While her discussions of individual images are often quite specific, the larger
                    argument is too general and not well developed.
            HAL S. BARRON, Harvey Mudd College and The Claremont
                    Graduate School, Claremont, 
                        California
                    , has written extensively on the social and economic history of the rural North during
                    the nineteenth century.
         
         
            
               Exiles in a Land of Liberty: Mormons in America, 1830–1846. By
                    Kenneth H. Winn. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1989. Pp. x, 284. Notes, bibliography, index. $32.50.)
            The past generation has seen the emergence of a "New Mormon History." Exploiting
                    sources in church archives long closed to researchers and using insights from other disciplines,
                    especially psychology and anthropology, scholars Mormon and non-Mormon, such as Richard L. Bushman,
                    Leonard Arrington, Klaus Hansen, and Jan Shipps, have revolutionized thought on the origins of the
                    Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints. Kenneth H. Winn's Exiles in a
                        Land of Liberty is an important and worthy continuation of this effort.
            
            Winn argues that republicanism, the body of thought on the nature of power and government that
                    historians of the early republic have seen as pervading American thought, informed both believers in
                    and opponents of Mormonism in the 1830s and 1840s. He shows that much of the appeal of Joseph Smith
                    and the Book of Mormon lay in espousal of traditional republican values, especially communal ones,
                    in an era of social and economic change. Anti-Mormons found in republicanism ample warning against
                    closed groups dominated by a single leader and thus saw in Mormonism a threat to the nation. The
                    result was unprecedentedly violent conflict culminating in the Mormon flight to Utah in
                    1846–1847.
            Winn's work is admirable in several respects. It is bold in taking issue with established
                    interpretations: Winn challenges almost every historian of the Latter-Day Saints at some point, and
                    usually convincingly. Most valuable is Winn's analysis of the republican bases of
                    anti-Mormonism. While other groups, most notably Roman Catholics, were the targets of violence in
                    the 1830s and 1840s, the hostility directed at Mormons was unique in intensity and degree. No other
                    historian has explained so convincingly just why the Latter-Day Saints frightened so many people. On
                    the other hand, by tying Mormon separatism and millenarianism to ideas taken from the American
                    political tradition, Winn also complements the work of historians such as R. Laurence Moore and
                    Nathan O. Hatch, who have stressed the American-ness of the Latter-Day Saints. In short, this is an
                    important work, of interest not only to students of Mormon history but to those interested in
                    antebellum politics and culture as well.
            THOMAS D. HAMM, archivist and assistant professor of
                    history, Earlham College, 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, is the author of The Transformation of American Quakerism:
                        Orthodox Friends, 1800–1907 (1988). He is now working on a study of radical
                    abolitionism in the Old Northwest.
         
         
            
               Inside War: The Guerrilla Conflict in Missouri during the American Civil War. By
                    Michael Fellman. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1989. Pp. xx, 331. Maps, tables, illustrations, notes, archival
                    source list, index. $24.95.)
            President Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     has often been praised for his sage handling of the problematic border states in the
                    Civil War, but surely that will end—at least in the case of 
                        Missouri
                    —after the historical profession absorbs the message in Michael
                    Fellman's chilling book. The situation in rural Missouri can be described if not as anarchy
                    then as something closely akin to it. Self-constituted guerrillas, unconnected except in their own
                    fantasies of respectability with any Confederate command, fought inadequately controlled Union
                    forces; and both sides pillaged, murdered, and mutilated the corpses of their victims. Disguises
                    were so regularly employed that  the historian cannot unravel
                    which side was which in many violent incidents.
            For his part, 
                        Lincoln
                     limply advocated a resurgence of good will on a town-meeting model, while his officers,
                    working generally on the opposite assumption of malignity in the degraded Missouri populace,
                    condoned murder and looting. Confederate authorities kept their moral distance from 
                        Missouri
                    's uncontrollable guerrillas and eventually withdrew legislative sanction from
                    them, but, in fact, they could not disapprove of any outfit that actually brought injury to Yankees.
                    Illegal destruction of life and property is usually difficult to prove from standard historical
                    documents, but Fellman has put court-martial records from the National Archives, soldiers'
                    diaries from various historical societies, letters written to small-town newspapers, and the ever
                    bountiful Official Records to effective use.
            
               Inside War takes the focus off leaders like William C. Quantrill and depicts
                    instead a "war of ten thousand nasty incidents" (p. 251). Separate chapters
                    delineate the ordeals and survival strategies of ordinary civilians, soldiers, guerrillas, and
                    women. Like many modern studies that employ the methods and exploit the sources favored by the new
                    social history, this one occasionally degenerates into a mere collection of anecdotes. It is
                    sometimes repetitious or self-contradictory. And the book is largely innocent of statistics, so that
                    it is quite impossible to tell with any precision how extensive were the problems illustrated in the
                    anecdotes. Finally, chronology is abandoned, so that one can gain little sense of ebb and flow or
                    historical cause and effect.
            Nevertheless, such faults by no means undermine the compelling portrait of guerrilla warfare
                    presented in this book. It is no longer easy to write a book on the Civil War that offers something
                    more than elegant synthesis or dogged correction of minor errors. But Inside War
                    paints a genuinely surprising picture of part of that great conflict. The
                    "brothers' war" sentimentalists will have trouble digesting this banquet
                    of blood and gristle.
            MARK E. NEELY, JR., is director of the 
                        Lincoln
                     Museum, 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Indiana. He is working on a book about Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     and the Constitution.
         
         
            
               Thomas Morris 
                            Chester
                        , Black Civil War Correspondent: His Dispatches from the Virginia Front. Edited
                    by R. J. M. Blackett. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : Louisiana State University Press, 1989. Pp. xvi, 375. Notes, illustrations, map,
                    index. $35.00.)
            This handsome book enlarges readers' understanding of the Civil War, particularly the role
                    of black Union soldiers, and introduces them to a remarkable but little-known black man, Thomas
                    Morris 
                        Chester
                    . In the first part of the book, a biographical essay,  Richard Blackett presents the diligently ferreted out facts of 
                        Chester
                    's life. It is the story of a complex, somewhat puzzling, and peripatetic
                    career.
            Born in 1834 in 
                  Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
               , the son of abolitionist parents and always
                    himself a champion of complete equality for American blacks, 
                        Chester
                     nevertheless was associated with the American Colonization Society, which was despised
                    by most black abolitionists. He went several times to 
                        Liberia
                    , where he worked as a teacher and started a newspaper, but he always returned to the 
                        United States
                    . During the final months of the Civil War 
                        Chester
                     worked as a reporter for the 
                        Philadelphia
                    
                    Press, covering the campaign around 
                        Richmond
                    . After the war he went to 
                        England
                     to study law and became the first black American to be admitted to the English bar. He
                    next moved to 
                        New Orleans
                     where he was involved in the complexities of Louisiana politics during the
                    Reconstruction years. After the end of Reconstruction his legal practice took him to 
                        Washington
                    , D. C., 
                        New Orleans
                    , and 
                        Harrisburg
                    , where he died in 1892.
            The second part of the book reproduces 
                        Chester
                    's dispatches to the 
                        Philadelphia
                    
                    Press, a white newspaper, from August, 1864, to June, 1865. Why the Press chose to
                    employ 
                        Chester
                     is not clear, but the choice was a fortunate one. 
                        Chester
                    's brand of journalism is lively, personal, and partisan, quite different from
                    the "objective" reporting of a later era. He makes no effort to conceal his hatred
                    of and disdain for the white officers of the Confederate cause, but his reporting shows sympathy for
                    some white civilians as well as for the blacks who flocked around the Union troops. He lauds the
                    courage, discipline, and fighting ability of the black Union soldiers and bestows high praise on
                    their white officers, particularly William G. Birney and his brother, David Bell Birney, sons of the
                    abolitionist James G. Birney.
            Most interesting of the press dispatches are those that deal with the fall of 
                        Richmond
                     and the subsequent occupation of the city by Union troops. There are glimpses of the
                    transition from slavery to freedom that blacks were experiencing and the response of former masters
                    to the change. 
                        Chester
                     doubts that most of them are convinced that their former slaves are indeed free. He
                    sees signs that under President Andrew Johnson's amnesty terms former secessionists will
                    return to power.
            Blackett has done a painstaking and admirable job of editing, especially in identifying persons,
                    military and civilian, mentioned in 
                        Chester
                    's reports.
            EMMA LOU THORNBROUGH is professor
                    emeritus of history, 
                        Butler
                     University, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Included among her many contributions to African American history is
                    "Breaking Racial Barriers to Public Accommodations in Indiana, 1935 to 1963," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIII (December, 1987), 301–43.
         
         
         
            
               The Union Army, 1861–1865: Organization and Operations. Volume I, The Eastern Theater. By Frank J. Welcher. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1989. Pp. xv, 1065. $75.00.)
            
               The Union Army, 1861–1865: Organization and Operations is exactly what
                    its title describes, and more. In his introduction Frank J. Welcher states that his "single
                    aim" is to provide "a complete and continuous account of the organization of all
                    Union military divisions, departments, armies, army corps, divisions, and brigades, and the numerous
                    special commands that were in existence during the war" (p. xiv). The "special
                    commands" range from the military response to the 
                        New York
                     draft riots to the Invalid Corps (Veteran Reserve Corps). The author also, under the
                    rubric of "operations," gives extensive narrative accounts of campaigns and
                    battles.
            Welcher, an emeritus professor of chemistry at Indiana University and Indiana
                    University—Purdue University 
                        Indianapolis
                    , begins his monumental work with a general description of the constitutional and
                    statutory command structure of the nation's military system in 1861 and ends with detailed
                    reports of Union military forces and operations from Aenon Church to Yorktown. The arrangement is
                    alphabetical rather than chronological or geographical. Each entry is more than a listing of the
                    officers and the units under their command; Welcher also provides a blow-by-blow account of all
                    military actions. In these accounts the author necessarily abandons his position of disinterested
                    objectivity and offers personal interpretations.
            
                    The Union Army, 1861–1865, is volume one of what is apparently planned as a
                        two-volume work. It covers only the eastern theater of operations. It contains no maps, no
                        footnotes, no bibliography, and no index. These omissions will be more of a handicap to the
                        student or buff than to the scholar. Welcher used the 128 volumes of the Official
                            Records as his basic source of information. The Union Army invites
                        comparison with Fred A. Shannon's The Organization and Administration of
                            the Union Army (1965), but the two works are quite different; Shannon's
                        opinionated narrative analyzes process, while Welcher describes structure.
                
            Only intensive use by many different scholars can evaluate the reliability of The Union
                        Army. This reader, for example, discovered that Welcher has General Charles Stone released
                    from confinement August 6, 1862, while Mark M. Boatner's Civil War
                    Dictionary (1959) gives the date as August 16. Although the high price may limit
                    Welcher's book largely to libraries, all students of Civil War history will find volume one
                    of The Union Army an invaluable reference. Welcher claims that his massive study
                    is a special kind of history, different from others. It is. Its perspective  repays the browser as well as the person seeking specific information.
            WILLIAM L. BURTON is professor of history, Western
                    Illinois University, Macomb. His most recent work is Melting Pot Soldiers: The
                        Union's Ethnic Regiments (1988).
         
         
            
               The Elements of Confederate Defeat: Nationalism, War Aims, and Religion. By
                    Richard E. Beringer, Herman Hattaway, Archer Jones, and William N. Still, Jr. (
                        Athens
                    : University of 
                        Georgia
                     Press, 1988. Pp. xi, 244. Bibliographical essay, index. Clothbound, $30.00;
                    paperbound, $15.00.)
            Those who lived though the 1960s and 1970s witnessed a stunning example of a small, undeveloped
                    agricultural nation holding at bay a huge, well-developed industrial state and ultimately securing
                    the right to pursue its destiny undisturbed by its erstwhile tormentor. How did the Vietnamese
                    supply the means of over-balancing the material superiority of their enemy? The answer is manifestly
                    complex, but clearly the most formidable obstacle against which American policy shattered was the
                    resolve of the Vietnamese simply to fight on. They were borne up by some inner resource, some
                    nonmaterial dimension of the nation itself. While not unique in history, the historic proportions of
                    the Vietnamese example will unavoidably force historians to seek explanatory paradigms for analyzing
                    and understanding wars characterized by a similarly disproportionate disposal of force.
            The authors of The Elements of Confederate Defeat undertake to explain the reasons
                    for the defeat of the southern Confederacy. In this volume they reaffirm an argument developed at
                    great length in their earlier study, Why the South Lost the Civil War (1986).
                    Indeed, readers of the present work will find entire chapters carried over from the earlier
                    publication. In both works the authors contend that the South was defeated because it lacked the
                    necessary morale and the will to pay the price that victory demanded.
            The argument is an interesting one, but it is slippery at best. It rests principally upon three
                    considerations: nationalism, what might be called "double-acting" religious
                    perceptions, and a paralytic sense of guilt over the institution of slavery. The South did not
                    develop a true sense of nationalism, the authors argue. Religion, which initially explained defeats
                    by the well-worn "time-of-testing" twist, moved gradually to interpreting
                    suffering as punishment for sins and finally resolved itself into a view that Union successes
                    represented God's condemnation of the Confederate cause. The institution of slavery,
                    despite protestations to the contrary, suffused the southern mentality with a sense of guilt that
                         seriously contaminated the moral justification of the cause
                    and fatally vitiated the will to win.
            It is difficult to make an incontestable demonstration of the argument in any of these three
                    categories. The difficulty lies in the fact that a collective mentality must be shown to have
                    existed and to have shared the ascribed characteriestics. This is an undertaking of the most
                    challenging description, and one which many readers will not view as fully accomplished.
            JOHN KNOX STEVENS is associate
                    professor of history, Indiana University—Purdue University 
                        Indianapolis
                    . His most recent publication is "Hostages to Hunger: Nutritional Night
                    Blindness in Confederate Armies," Tennessee Historical Quarterly, XLVIII
                    (Fall, 1989). He is currently working on a book about the 1863 siege of a Union army at
                            
                  Chattanooga, Tennessee
               .
         
         
            
               Constructing Urban Culture: American Cities and City Planning,
                    1800–1920. By Stanley K. Schultz. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : Temple University Press, 1989. Pp. xviii, 275. Illustrations, maps, tables, notes,
                    index. $34.95.)
            By the early twentieth century an urban culture had emerged to challenge "the traditional
                    order of rural and small-town America" (p. xiii). It did not occur overnight, nor did it
                    come from any one source. According to Stanley K. Schultz, this culture developed throughout most of
                    the nineteenth century and involved scores of municipal engineers, sanitarians, lawyers, landscape
                    architects, novelists, and unknown citizens who sought to improve the quality of urban life. In
                    large part, they succeeded, for by 1920 "American city dwellers enjoyed the highest
                    standards of public services in the world" (p. 215).
            To reach this conclusion Schultz examines in four parts how nineteenth-century urban Americans
                    imagined, regulated, sanitized, and engineered their cities. He begins by reviewing Utopian novels
                    and showing how their authors adopted similar themes to contrast the safe, clean, and convenient
                    cities they dreamt about to those in which they lived. Schultz next turns his attention to the new
                    tools that were needed to create these cities of the future. In analyzing changes in the
                    nation's legal system, he demonstrates how urban growth and rising expectations resulted in
                    the expanded police power of municipalities. In the book's final two parts he explains how
                    an enlarged urban law combined with the need for sanitary reform and comprehensive planning to
                    create new physical evironments that made healthy cities possible.
            Much of what Schultz tells about nineteenth-century American cities and the men who made them has
                    been heard before, but in the context of a single city. This volume provides readers with a much
                    better sense of the whole. It also treats them to a valuable discussion of the ways in which changes
                    in the laws governing the  use of land by municipal corporations
                    provided the go-ahead for constructing essential and extensive public works. In the 1880s and early
                    1890s, for example, courts gave cities the right to appropriate private property beyond their limits
                    for waterworks and other public utilities. Finally, Schultz recognizes the important links between
                    sanitation improvements and the reform impulse. For most reformers cleanliness provided the answer
                    to many of the social and moral problems that afflicted urban America.
            In the preface Schultz warns readers that in this "extended essay" they
                    "will discover much that is missing" (p. xvii). What is most significantly absent
                    are the women, both individuals and groups, who made large contributions to constructing an urban
                    culture. Also absent are strong examples from the pre—Civil War decades that would
                    demonstrate once and for all that this culture was truly "a product of the entire
                    nineteenth century" (p. xv). The evidence is heavily weighted to the post—Civil
                    War years; hence, readers are still left wondering if the great mass of Americans who lived in farm
                    communities as late as 1860 were even touched by city sparks.
            SUELLEN HOY teaches history at the University of Notre
                    Dame. She has written on public works and public health subjects and is currently working on a
                    history of cleanliness in the 
                        United States
                     since 1820.
         
         
            
               Black Women In White: Racial Conflict and Cooperation in the Nursing Profession,
                        1890–1950. By Darlene Clark Hine. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1989. Pp. xxiii, 264. Illustrations, appendix, tables,
                    notes, bibliography, index. Clothbound, $35.00; paperbound, $12.95.)
            
               Black Women In White represents the first part of a planned study of black health
                    care professionals and black health. It is devoted to nurses because Darlene Clark Hine found them
                    more crucial to health care in the black community than physicians. The book focuses less on black
                    nurses' efforts and experiences as care givers than on black responses to racism in health
                    care and the health professions in the era of Jim Crow.
            The first half of the book examines the history of black hospitals and nurse-training institutions in
                    the 
                        United States
                    , covering black-run voluntary hospitals created when mainstream hospitals barred black
                    patients and physicians, white-run hospitals caring for black patients, and the all-black nursing
                    schools connected with them and with black colleges and universities. In 1928, 80 percent of black
                    trained nurses had graduated from all-black schools.
            The second half of the book traces the development of the National Association of Colored Graduate
                    Nurses (NACGN), founded in 1908. The early NACGN showed some of the elitism abounding in the new
                    white nurses' organizations of the era, but it also attacked  discrimination against black nurses and promoted plans for nursing
                    service to black communities. In the 1930s new leaders made integration their paramount goal. During
                    World War II the NACGN won wide support for a successful struggle against quotas on black nurses in
                    the army and their total exclusion from the navy. The American Nurses Association moved to integrate
                    its membership in 1948, and two years later the NACGN dissolved.
            Hine has delved deeply and imaginatively in published and archival sources and recent works in
                    nursing history. Her work has a breadth and analytical focus lacking in previous histories of
                    African Americans in nursing, all written by insiders. Hine shows the impact of racism on black
                    nurses, yet her relentless focus on institutions and a tendency to adopt, rather than explain, the
                    points of view espoused by their leaders obscures two important topics: the nursing experience of
                    black women in white (relegated mainly to one chapter late in the book) and their distinctive
                    response to racism.
            Comparisons could reveal what is distinctive. Black hospitals and nurse-training schools need to be
                    compared with other local black organizations, the NACGN in its successive phases with other
                    national race-betterment and protest organizations and with other professional nurses'
                    organizations. Placing the NACGN in those two contexts might help explain its unusual decision to
                    disband. African American nurses need to be compared with white nurses. Did the differences in
                    experience and outlook that divided elite and rank and file among white nurses exist among black
                    nurses, or were they unified by whites' racism and their communal loyalty? Nurses and
                    outsiders often interpreted nursing as womanly service. How much or little did black nurses differ
                    from white in their view of their work? Rephrased, the question is important for women's
                    history: how far did women's visions of their roles and possibilities transcend the
                    barriers of race and racism?
            
               Black Women In White is a thought-provoking, well-researched pioneer work. It
                    should not be the last word, but it is a welcome beginning.
            SUSAN ARMENY examined American nursing in her
                    dissertation, "Resolute Enthusiasts: The Effort to Professionalize American Nursing,
                    1880–1915" (University of 
                        Missouri
                    -
                        Columbia
                    , 1983). She is assistant editor of the Journal of American
                History.
            
         
         
            
               Elite Oral History Discourse: A Study of Cooperation and Coherence. By Eva M.
                    McMahan. (
                        Tuscaloosa
                    : University of Alabama Press, 1989. Pp. xxii, 167. Figure, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $24.50.)
            It is generally accepted that Allan Nevins introduced historians to the tape-recorded interview as a
                    research device when he  founded the Oral History Research
                    Office at 
                        Columbia
                     University in 1948. As practiced by Nevins and his early followers, oral history was a
                    sort of inflated journalistic inquiry into a past experienced and remembered by powerful white men.
                    Little attention was given to the lives of common people and even less to understanding the ways in
                    which information created through an interview was shaped by the interview process.
            Oral history evolved, and in the 1970s and 1980s—keeping in step with general movements in
                    academic historiography—oral historians flirted with structuralist theories of
                    communication and embraced social history. However, oral history interviews of prominent people are
                    still being done, and interview methodology typically owes as much to intuition as it does to
                    calculation. Now Eva M. McMahan has produced a probing "exercise in applied communication
                    theory" that is designed to elucidate what actually occurs when "American male
                    elites" (of the type that Nevins's program concentrated on) are interviewed.
            McMahan has probably been too narrowly restrictive in entitling her work Elite Oral
                        History Discourse; experienced practitioners will recognize that much of what she has to
                    say could be fairly said of oral history interviewing in general. Her book is organized into five
                    chapters that describe various aspects of the interview process, with examples drawn from 160 hours
                    of oral history tapes and transcripts produced by others. Tying it all together is a theory that is
                    not new but that is here strongly supported by evidence and analysis: an oral history interview does
                    not simply collect information about the past; it creates it. The author
                    convincingly demonstrates that the complex, subtle, and evolving relationship between the
                    interviewer and interviewee, the goals that each pursues through the conduct of the oral history,
                    and a host of other influences result in documentation of the past that is also a creative
                    interpretation. The idea that an oral history can be a pure "primary source" has
                    no validity outside a comprehensive (and humanly impossible) understanding of what was going on in
                    the interview and why. Of course, although it is beyond the scope of McMahan's subject, the
                    same could be said of all primary sources and the research that uncovers them in the humanities and
                    the sciences alike. Knowledge is created, and it is imperfect.
            There is much that is commendable about Elite Oral History Discourse. Through a
                    thought-provoking dissection of the oral history interview, the book reveals a great deal of the
                    structure and underlying dynamics of that rewarding, but occasionally frustrating, exercise in
                    documenting the past. It is a convincing contribution to a growing body of work on the context and
                    meaning of communication in oral history, and it should have a positive effect on the interviewing
                    styles of those who read it. However, although Elite Oral History Discourse is a
                    solid book, it easily could have  been
                    better—ironically, for reasons that derive from the fact that McMahan is a communication
                    scholar. Put simply, the author needed an editor with a preference for clear, expository English.
                    While McMahan has many important things to say, they are partially obscured within a fog of
                    situationally emergent, hermeneutical, reified illocutionary social sciences idiom. This may not
                    diminish the value of the message, but it does obstruct its communication.
            R. T. KING is associate professor and director of the Oral History Program, a
                    department of the College of Arts and Science of the University of 
                        Nevada
                    , Reno. From 1981 to 1983 he was assistant director of the Indiana University Oral
                    History Research Project.
         
         
            
               Winning Is the Only Thing: Sports in America since 1945. By Randy Roberts and
                    James S. Olson. (
                        Baltimore
                    : Johns Hopkins University Press, 1989. Pp. xii, 258. Illustrations, bibliographic
                    essay, index. $18.95.)
            During the past two decades the study of sports in American life has flowed in two basic streams. On
                    the one hand athletes (aided by ghost writers) and sports journalists have written either panegyrics
                    or exposes of various aspects of American sports, usually targeting a general audience. On the other
                    hand serious academic scholars have analyzed and dissected sports, placing them in a wider
                    historical context primarily for the benefit of fellow scholars.
            In Winning Is the Only Thing two academic historians, Randy Roberts (Purdue
                    University) and James Olson (Sam 
                        Houston
                     State University) attempt to unite these two streams. Based upon a careful mining of
                    pertinent secondary sources and clearly relating trends in sports to wider political, social,
                    economic, and diplomatic currents, this study of American sports is self-consciously aimed at
                    general readers and undergraduate students. Writing in a breezy, informal style unencumbered by
                    footnotes and full of witty quotations, Roberts and Olson want their central thesis to be accessible
                    to laypeople as well as academics.
            Ironically, this central thesis might well alienate some of the very members of the public the
                    authors want to reach. In brief, they argue that modern American sports have declined from a kind of
                    prewar golden age in which they were considered "a pastime, diversion, leisure, recreation,
                    play—fun" (p. xi). "After World War II," however,
                    "Americans came to take sports very seriously, and they watched and played for the highest
                    economic, politic [sic], and personal stakes" (pp. xi-xii). From the excessive
                    nationalistic and political emphasis of the Olympics to the obsessive, even self-destructive focus
                    on individual physical culture in the 1980s, Americans,  the
                    authors argue, seem to have forgotten that sports should provide enjoyment and escape.
            While some sports fanatics both outside and inside the academy might find this argument painted in
                    strokes too broad, the authors' evidence is both convincing and entertainingly presented.
                    Readers familiar with basketball in Indiana might have liked some mention of Hoosier Hysteria, even
                    if approached critically. More damaging, Roberts and Olson unaccountably devote only two pages
                    specifically to women in sports. Surely such a major theme in modern sports history deserves more
                    than a cursory glance.
            These criticisms aside, Winning Is the Only Thing is a fine book. Although scholars
                    in the field will encounter little that is new, the general reader will find it first-rate and
                    provocative.
            ANTHONY O. EDMONDS is professor of history and chairman of
                    the Department of History, Ball State University, 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana. He has written a biography of Joe Louis and is currently working on a study
                    of the 
                        Vietnam
                     War's impact on 
                        Muncie
                    .
         
         
            Revised information regarding a review published in the June, 1990, issue of the Indiana
                        Magazine of History: A Surgeon's Diary: 15th Evacuation Hospital; Experiences in World
                        War II, North Africa-Sicily-
                            Italy
                        . Pp. 323. Notes, illustrations, map. $19.95. Dr. Frank W. Peyton,
                    612 Ridgewood Drive, West 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana 47906.
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               The Magnificent Ambersons. By Booth Tarkington. (Blooming-ton: Indiana University
                    Press, 1989. Pp. xix, 516. Illustrations. Clothbound, $17.50; paperbound,
                    $9.95.) Here is a leading candidate for the honor of representing the epitome of
                    Indiana's golden age of literature. Booth Tarkington's thinly disguised hometown
                    of 
                        Indianapolis
                     changed rapidly as the automobile and smoky factories appeared and as the Amberson
                    family's fortune declined. Tarkington's literary skill in capturing the details of
                    change, in playing off past, present, and future, is the stuff of good historical analysis. The Magnificent Ambersons is one of Indiana's finest historical
                    documents, yet it is also a novel to be read for the sheer pleasure of a good story, of seeing
                    George Amberson Minafer get his comeuppance. Only after reading the book, which won the Pulitzer
                    Prize in 1918, should one also seek the pleasure of Orson Wells's film. This reprinting in
                    the Indiana University Press Library of Indiana Classics series includes also a very good
                    introduction by Donald J. Gray. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               The Archaeological Investigations of Fort 
                            Knox
                         II: 
                            Knox County
                        , Indiana, 1803–1813. By Marlesa A. Gray. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1988. Pp. x, 301. Figures, illustrations, notes, tables,
                    bibliography, appendixes, index. Paperbound, $32.00.) Located on the Wabash River two
                    miles north of Vin-cennes, Fort Knox was garrisoned from 1803 to 1813 but played its most important
                    role as the staging area for the troops who fought at the Battle of Tippecanoe in 1811. This report
                    summarizes several archaeological investigations of the site, known as Fort 
                        Knox
                     II to distinguish it from two other forts of the same name. A combination of
                    archaeological evidence and written documents has enabled the investigators to provide abundant and
                    fascinating detail about the daily life of the inhabitants of the fort, including diet, clothing,
                    health, and the place of women there. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               William 
                            Murray
                        , Esq: Land Agent In The Illinois Territory Before The Revolutionary War. By
                    Myles N. Murray and Rev. Robert V. Zoba. (
                        Brooklyn
                    , N. Y.: Theo. Gaus, Ltd., 1987. Pp. xvii, 157. Maps, illustrations, notes, appendixes.
                    $18.50.) This is a marvelous example of special pleading combined with a conspiracy
                    theory  so fantastic that it links George 
                        Washington
                     with Lord Cornwallis in a secret personal deal in support of the House of 
                        Hanover
                    ! The hero of the book is William 
                        Murray
                    , one of those shadowy figures who made a rough living as a frontier trader while
                    dreaming of grand and glorious land speculations. The authors assert that the William 
                        Murray
                     who certainly acted as chief agent of the Illinois and Wabash land companies was
                    related to William 
                        Murray
                    , Marquis of Tullibardine, a leading Jacobite who died in the Tower of 
                        London
                     in 1746 before he could be tried for raising an army in support of Bonnie Prince
                    Charlie. They further assert, without a shred of evidence, that the colonial 
                        Murray
                     was true to the Stuart cause, prompting his many enemies in Britain and America to
                    frustrate his ambitions and virtually erase his name from history.
            In fact 
                        Murray
                     was an agent of the Franks and Gratz interests of 
                        Philadelphia
                     and purchased from various Indian chieftains a large tract of land along the
                    Mississippi and Illinois rivers and two smaller tracts on the 
                        Wabash
                    . By offering a share of the enterprise, he managed to secure some support from Lord
                    Dunmore, the governor of 
                        Virginia
                     (whose name was John 
                        Murray
                    ), but Lord Dartmouth, the colonial secretary, sharply rejected the entire scheme as a
                    violation of the Proclamation of 1763. The united Illinois and Wabash land companies struggled for
                    forty years without success to persuade Congress to recognize their western land titles, and 
                        Murray
                     died in obscurity near Natchez in 1795.
            Readers curious about the complex realities of land speculations, including those of William 
                        Murray
                    , should refer to Thomas B. Abernethy, Western Lands and The American
                        Revolution (1937) and Clarence W. Alvord, The Mississippi Valley in British
                        Politics (1917). Patrick J. Furlong, Indiana University, 
                            South Bend
                        .
            
            
               Correspondence of James K. Polk. Volume VII: January-August,
                    1844. Edited by Wayne Cutler; associate editor, James P. Cooper, Jr. (
                        Nashville
                    : Vanderbilt University Press, 1989. Pp. xxxiv, 561. End maps, illustration, notes,
                    index. $32.50.) As matters stood when the last volume of his correspondence appeared in
                    1983, James K. Folk's career had suffered a serious setback through a failed gubernatorial
                    candidacy; he was seeking the 1844 Democratic vice-presidential nomination; and the Polk Project
                    itself was in a precarious financial position. Since then, the situation has brightened considerably
                    for all parties. The project has changed sponsors and relocated, and scholars now can confidently
                    look forward to the publication of the remainder of Folk's correspondence. As for Young
                    Hickory, in 1844 he won not second place but the presidential nomination itself. This volume will,
                    therefore, be of particular note to those interested in that year's crucial election. The
                    letters document Folk's campaign strategy and raise 
                    questions about just how dark a horse the nominee actually was. The volume is admirably put
                    together, with helpful but unintrusive annotations and conveniently located notes. Editorial
                    practices are carefully described in the preface and seem on the whole reasonable. A useful calendar
                    is included, as is an extensive index, though the latter contains some entries that are dauntingly
                    long and difficult to use. This volume should be an important source for those interested in
                    antebellum politics. Gary L. Bailey, Indiana University of 
                            Pennsylvania
                        , Indiana, 
                            Pennsylvania
                        .
            
            
               The Sugar Creek Saga: Chronicles of a Petroleum Geologist. By Harold W. Scott. (
                        Ann Arbor
                    , Mich.: the author, 1986. Pp. xviii, 308. Illustrations, maps, tables, graphs.
                    $20.00.) Harold W. Scott chronicles the cultural and economic impact of petroleum
                    exploitation in the twentieth century as seen through the eyes of his own family. Scott chooses the
                    major oil discovery of Spindletop in 1901 as a beginning; however, the giant 
                        Lima
                    -
                        Peru
                     Field of Indiana-Ohio in the late 1800s was the first significant petroleum-related
                    factor in the Midwest. Dan M. Sullivan, Indiana Geological Survey (retired).
            
         
         
         
            Letters to the Editor
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Editor: Indiana Magazine of History
                        
                        Both Elliott Shore, the author of Talkin' Socialism, and
                                    Mr. Nord, who reviewed the book in your March, 1989, issue, have overlooked or are
                                    not aware of what socialism really is and who were the real, the Marxian socialists
                                    in the U.S.A.
                        J.A. Wayland was a petty capitalist whose Appeal to Reason made more money for
                                    Wayland than it did socialists. Debs was a social reformer who got on the Marxian
                                    socialist movement in 1905 and then helped to sabotage it in 1908. The
                                    "Appeal to Reason" was not the greatest American socialist
                                    newspaper of all time as stated by Professor Nord in his review. The People of the
                                    SLP has been.
                        In what way did Shore's book "provide —– an
                                    important contribution" as to why "socialism failed in
                                    America"? Quite the opposite! The capitalist reformism of both Wayland and
                                    Debs failed and diverted the attention of workers from their real and rightful role
                                    in establishing socialism by implying that it could be done for them rather than by
                                    them.
                        "The People" was the official newspaper and educational organ of
                                    the Socialist Labor Party. Daniel DeLeon was the editor. Shore acclaimed what he
                                    considered to have been a successful fight by Wayland to overthrow DeLeon. DeLeon
                                    was not overthrown and The People has continued to publish to this day.
                        Shore's book and Nord's review of it are travesties of intellectual
                                    integrity and of historical accuracy. The Indiana Magazine of
                                    History has been delinquent in noting these travesties and of promoting the
                                    divisive schemes of Wayland and Debs.
                        The Fall 1989 issue of the Socialist Republic contains a review of "Talking
                                    Socialism" by Phil Goldstein. Goodstein made it clear that Shore did not
                                    understand or adequately report what people were talking about, what was the
                                    specific nature of the ideas and ideologies with which people had to deal, nor on
                                    the dilemmas and problems of building a socialist movement.
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       Ann Arbor, Michigan
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                                    
                                        Ralph Muncy
                                    
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Editor: Indiana Magazine of History
                        
                        Mr. Muncy's letter, not Shore's book or my review, is the travesty.
                                    It is nothing more than a DeLeonist screed—the same species of pompous,
                                    self-righteous sectarianism that has vexed the socialist movement here and abroad
                                    for a hundred years. Alas, both Shore and I are well aware of (1) "what
                                    socialism really is" and (2) "who were the real, the Marxian
                                    socialists in the U.S.A.," as Mr. Muncy  puts it. It's just that we, like Debs and Wayland and thousands of other
                                    grass-roots American socialists, see little connection between the two.
                        
                                    
                              
                                 Indiana University, 
                                       Bloomington
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                                    
                                        David Nord
                                    
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Editor: Indiana Magazine of History
                        
                        I am writing to correct some material in an article in the December, 1989, issue of
                                    the Indiana Magazine of History by David L. Anderson.
                        In the article he infers that the 38th Division, Indiana National Guard, was not
                                    called up in the Cuban crisis in 1962 because it may not have been qualified and
                                    because of an administrative mixup in the division's number.
                        Anderson says orders were issued for the 
                                        Wisconsin
                                     36th Division. The facts: the 32d Division was in 
                                        Wisconsin
                                    , and it was not called during the Cuban crisis. It was called during
                                    the Berlin crisis of 1961. The 36th Division was a Texas outfit.
                        I was in the Pentagon in 1962 for my alert orders as commanding general of the 38th.
                                    So far as I have ever known no other Guard division was alerted or called during the
                                    Cuban crisis. The reason we were not called up was because Nikita Khrushchev backed
                                    down the week of the alert. The 38th was one of the top divisions at that time and
                                    its readiness capability was never questioned. To infer that it was not ready is an
                                    insult to the thousands of men who served in the Indiana Guard during the Cold War
                                    or at other times.
                        The entire article is a bit negative and by making the lead on the enlistment of
                                    Vice-President Dan Quayle, Anderson implies the Guard and reserves were draft
                                    dodging outfits. I commend the thousands of men who volunteered to serve while
                                    continung their civilian pursuits and abhor those who did wait until after a draft
                                    notice was sent to volunteer.
                        I asked Anderson if he had checked the draft records of Quayle and he said he had
                                    not. That was poor reporting and he failed to even contact me to check his facts. So
                                    far as I know he did not talk to the present or past Adjutant Generals of Indiana or
                                    any of the past commanding generals of the division to get the facts correct. The
                                    entire article was negative in nature to me but I do thank the author and your
                                    magazine for giving us some credit for the many excellent services the 38th Division
                                    has rendered to the state of Indiana in the 20th century.
                        I have discussed the article with author Anderson and pointed out the facts I have
                                    presented in this letter. I give him credit for serving his country in the 
                                        Vietnam
                                     war.
                        
                                    
                                        Major General, United States Army Reserve, Retired
                                    
                                    
                                        Wendell C. Phillippi
                                    
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Editor: Indiana Magazine of History
                        
                        Thank you for providing me the opportunity to respond to General Wendell C.
                                    Phillippi's letter in regard to my article "The Indiana National
                                    Guard in the Turbulent 1960s." I welcome his comments on the confusion of
                                    division numbers in 1962. This tale of an alleged error in orders has circulated
                                    among Hoosier guardsmen for years and was repeated authoritatively by William J.
                                    Watt in the history of the Indiana National Guard published in 1980 by the Military
                                    Department of Indiana. General Phillippi has provided important information on this
                                    incident. I do not believe that either Watt's account or mine suggests that
                                    the 38th Division was unqualified for service in 1962. Indeed, the point is that the
                                    division was combat ready but was not activated because of a convergence of other
                                    chance factors unrelated to readiness.
                        Whether or not the article is "negative" I leave for others to
                                    decide. Thousands of young men faced difficult personal choices during the 
                                        Vietnam
                                     era. The article does not judge the decisions of individual guardsmen.
                                    It sketches a collective portrait of the Indiana Guard, which like Guard units
                                    nationwide was composed of ordinary men facing extraordinary circumstances.
                        
                                    
                              
                                 University of 
                                       Indianapolis
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                                    
                                        David L. Anderson
                                    
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            N.B. Letters to the editor are printed verbatim.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
