
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 88, Issue 1, pages 1-92. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:88+issue:1+year:1992&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Business As Usual: Indiana's Response to the Confederate Invasions of the Summer of 1863
            
                    Scott Roller
                    *
                
            Historical treatments of the Confederate invasions of Indiana in 1863 have portrayed the raids as
                    aberrations that had little or no enduring impact aside from producing a slightly better organized
                    militia and a wealth of folklore. What such interpretations have failed to investigate is how and
                    why the unity that was produced by the military threat to the state was so quickly dissolved after
                    the danger had passed. Indeed, historians generally agree that the unity was short lived, but none
                    have analyzed why this was the case. A closer examination of the guerrilla raids of General John
                    Hunt Morgan and Captain Thomas H. Hines reveals that the causes of this rapid disintegration of
                    solidarity among Hoosiers may be found both in the divisive party issues of the day and in the
                    unique circumstances created by the raids themselves. Because of the unified response they
                    engendered, these events had the potential to reduce or even eliminate the partisan accusations of
                    widespread disloyalty in the state. Instead, both Republicans and Democrats chose to ignore the
                    possible political implications of the raids and to perpetuate the extreme political hyperbole that
                    had existed previously.
            The physical and psychological stress of civil war, the intense divisions between supporters and
                    opponents of the conflict, and the social and economic changes at home caused many members of both
                    political parties in the Hoosier state to become, at times, over-zealous. Believing that peace could
                    be brought about only through armed conflict, Republican leaders denounced as disloyal virtually
                    everyone who did not support all aspects of the war. By equating dissent with treason they created
                    among their constituents an unfounded fear of their Democratic neighbors. The
                    Republicans’ position 
                  
                     * Scott Roller currently holds the position of collections
                            manager/registrar at the 
                                Putnam
                             Museum of History and Natural Science, Davenport, 
                                Iowa
                            .
                  INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, LXXXVIII (March, 19921’ 1992. Trustees of Indiana
                            University
               
                     as the incumbent party was paramount to the perpetuation of these
                    charges of disloyalty. Republicans had at their disposal the means to suppress treason wherever they
                    found it, and they used this power to their political advantage. In support of their accusations of
                    treason they discovered numerous disloyal activities that they attributed to members of the
                    Democratic party, including a plot to kill Republican Governor Oliver P. Morton, evidence of
                    cooperation with 
                        Kentucky
                     guerrilla bands, and the existence of the Knights of the Golden Circle, a subversive
                    organization that allegedly existed in the Midwest during the war.1
            
            In part, Democrats themselves brought on Republican charges and criticism. By the fall of 1862 in
                    Indiana, as elsewhere in the North, the Democracy had become predominantly an opposition party. As
                    Republicans put forth increasingly radical policies with regard to enlarging governmental powers,
                    Democrats became ever more vigilant in their defense of antebellum conservatism. In desperate
                    attempts to regain their dominance in Indiana politics, Democratic editors and politicians appealed
                    to the emotional issues of racism and attempted to rekindle old fears of sectional domination by New 
                        England
                     on issues such as the tariff, internal improvements, and banking legislation. Their
                    constant objections to Republican initiatives garnered them a reputation among many as a purely
                    negative party.2
            
            Because Democrats had dominated the political scene in Indiana from 1843 until at least 1854,
                    Republicans did not find it easy to discredit them. By late 1862 the implementation of the draft and
                    Lincoln's announcement of the Emancipation Proclamation, along with disheartening news from
                    the war front, allowed the Democrats 
                  
                     1 For general discussions of Republican politics in Indiana during the
                            Civil War see Kenneth M. Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil War (Indiana
                                Historical Collections, Vol. XXXI; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1949); Emma Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era,
                                1850–1880 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1965); William Dudley Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton (2
                            vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1899); James Albert Woodburn, "Party Politics in Indiana during the
                            Civil War," Annual Report of the American Historical Association for
                                the Year 1902 (19031, I, 225–51; John D. Barnhart, "The Impact
                            of the Civil War on Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, LVII
                            (September, 19611, 185–224. See also Frank L. Klement, Copperheads
                                in the Middle West (
                                Chicago
                            , 1960), 134–69; Frank L. Klement, "Carrington and the
                            Golden Circle Legend in Indiana during the Civil War," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, LXI (March, 19651, 31–52.
                  
                     2 For treatments of Democratic opposition in Indiana politics during
                            the Civil War see note 1 above; see also Gilbert R. Tredway, Democratic
                                Opposition to the Lincoln Administration in Indiana (Indiana Historical
                            Collections, Vol. XLVIII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1973); Wood Gray, The Hidden Civil War: The Story of the
                                Copperheads (
                                New York
                            , 1942); Joel H. Silbey, A Respectable Minority: The Democratic
                                Party in the Civil War Era, 1860–1868 (
                                New York
                            , 1977); Robert H. Abzug, "The Copperheads: Historical Approaches to
                            Civil War Dissent in the Midwest," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            LXVI (March, 19701, 40–55; Richard 0. Curry, "The Union as it Was: A
                            Critique of Recent Interpretations of the ‘Copperheads,’ "
                                Civil War History, XIII (March, 1967), 25–39.
               
                     to win control of both houses of the General Assembly in the fall
                        elections.3 This victory eventually led to a Republican bolt from the
                    legislature near the end of the session of 1863, ostensibly in an attempt to prevent Democrats from
                    passing bills that would severely curtail the powers of Governor Morton and hinder his support of
                    the war effort. The Republicans’ refusal to return for the remainder of the session
                    brought the General Assembly to a standstill. The offensive Democratic legislation was not passed,
                    but neither were any appropriation bills, leaving the Republican administration with no funds to run
                    the state government. Jubilant Democrats looked forward to a special session, but, through the
                    acquisition of financial aid from outside sources and the legally dubious but careful management of
                    this money by the governor himself, the state remained solvent until the next regularly scheduled
                    session of the General Assembly in January, 1865.4
            
            As early as January, 1863, one Republican leader in Indiana noted, "Our reverses have been
                    so frequent and so uncalled for [that] the people have become tired &
                        discouraged."5 As the year progressed, continued military setbacks,
                    the emergence of a strong Democratic peace movement, and periodic violent resistance to the draft
                    led some Republicans to fear an uprising against the government at home.6 By
                    June, 1863, Union morale had reached its nadir.
            Such was the state of Indiana politics when the dashing young Confederate Captain Thomas H. Hines
                    crossed the 
                        Ohio
                     River near 
                        Cannelton
                    , Indiana, on the night of June 17, 1863. Having been ordered to run a convalescent camp
                    in 
                        Kentucky
                     for broken down horses, Hines had received permission from General Morgan to
                    "scout north of the Cumberland river" to obtain recruits and fresh mounts. Finding
                    himself the target of Federal troops in 
                        Kentucky
                    , Hines decided to elude his pursuers by crossing the 
                        Ohio
                     River. Once in Indiana Hines and his force of about eighty men continued their search
                    for horses while masquerading as a company of "Indiana Greys" looking for
                        deserters.7
            
            
               
                  3 Tredway, Democratic Opposition to the Lincoln
                            Administration, 8–17 passim; Stampp, Indiana
                            Politics during the Civil War, 128–57 passim; Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton, I, 203–20; Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era, 118–23.
               
                  4 For a summation of the session and Morton's subsequent
                        financial dealings see Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil War Era,
                        176–85.
               
                  5 Calvin Fletcher diary, January 4, 1863, Calvin Fletcher Papers (Indiana
                        Historical Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ).
               
                  6 For example see Henry B. Carrington to Edwin M. Stanton, March 19, 1863,
                        U. S. War Department, The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official
                            Records of the Union and Confederate Armies (128 vols., 
                            Washington
                        , D. C., 1880–1901), ser. 2, vol. V, pp. 363–67. This work is
                        hereafter cited as Official Records.
               
                  7 James Blanton, "Account of Raids Made into 
                            Kentucky
                         by Gen. Morgan and Capt. Hines," 53–54, Thomas H. Hines Papers
                        (University of 
                            Kentucky
                         Library, 
                            Lexington
                        ).
            
            
            Whether or not Hines expected to get any support in Indiana from the Democrats or the Knights of the
                    Golden Circle, he soon found that when it came to an invasion of their state Hoosiers laid aside all
                    political differences.8 Upon discovering Hines's presence, citizens and
                    poorly organized and undrilled Home Guard units rushed to apprehend his party. On June 19, after
                    pursuing Hines and his men from the outskirts of Paoli to the 
                        Ohio
                     River where the ford that the Confederates had planned to use was blocked by state
                    militia, a group of citizens trapped Hines's troops on an island. The captain and a few of
                    his men escaped by swimming the swift current to the 
                        Kentucky
                     shore, but the bulk of his force surrendered without a fight.9 So
                    reassuring was the enthusiastic and unified response to the raid that even the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Daily Courier, a Republican organ, proclaimed, "Let it no longer be said
                    that rebels and guerrillas have sympathizers among the people of Southern Indiana.10 If Hines had expected any support from the Indiana Democracy, he had been rudely
                    disappointed.
            Perhaps the Hines raid should have assured doubtful Republicans that their Democratic neighbors,
                    though they might be averse to the aims and conduct of the war, were nonetheless fully prepared to
                    defend their homes and had no intention of aiding a rebel invasion. Yet, despite the suspension of
                    most partisan bickering during the raid itself, the habits of party politics were hard to break.
                    While some Democrats joined those Republicans who praised the nonpartisan response to the threat,
                    many took advantage of their new proof of loyalty to criticize and discredit Republican allegations
                    to the contrary.11 Other Democrats were apparently uninterested in capitalizing
                    on the patriotic response of their party members during the raid. The most influential Democratic
                    newspaper in the state, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    State Sentinel, used the raid as a means to criticize the actions of the Indiana
                    Home 
                  
                     8 Lieutenant Joseph Haycroft, who was taken prisoner during the Hines
                            Raid, said he thought from reading Indiana newspapers that "the Democrats would all
                            be rebels" and that Hines had expected "that he would be warmly welcomed
                            by citizens of Indiana, and that they would flock to his standard." New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, June 22, 1863. General Basil W. Duke of John Hunt
                            Morgan's command expressed a similar opinion, writing that Hines had crossed into
                            Indiana to "try and stir up the ‘copperheads.’"
                            Basil W. Duke, A History of Morgan's Cavalry (1867; reprint, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 19601, 431. Other accounts by members of Hines's command
                            suggest that his object was simply to steal horses. 
                                Madison
                            
                            Daily Courier, June 24, 1863. For an example of the suspension of partisan
                            politics see Paoli American Eagle, July 2, 1863.
                  
                     9 William H. H. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General
                                of the State of Indiana (8 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 186618891, I, 161–65; Blanton, "Account of Raids Made into 
                                Kentucky
                            ," 57. Accounts of the number of Confederates that escaped range from
                            three in Terrell to as many as twelve in Blanton.
                  
                     10
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Daily Courier, June 25, 1863.
                  
                     11 For praise see New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, June 23, 1863. For criticism of Republican allegations see
                            Paoli American Eagle, July 2, 1863.
               
                    
                    
                  
                     Morgan's Raid Thomas H. Hines Courtesy The Filson Club,
                                    
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     .
                Guards and thus the Republican administration itself. Upset by the part that these units
                    had taken in harassing Democrats and suppressing antiwar opinions, the Sentinel
                    turned the tables and sarcastically questioned the loyalty of the Home Guards. According to the
                    newspaper, going to the border to defend the state did not necessarily indicate good intentions. An
                    unsuccessful campaign against the "horse thieves" might suggest instead
                    "a bond of sympathy between those who cross the river to steal horses and those who stay at
                    home to steal arms."12
            
            Aside from the new political controversies that it created, the Hines raid also had a psychological
                    impact on many Hoosiers. For 
                  
                     12
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, June 20, 1863. For allegations of Home Guard
                            harassment see 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana State Sentinel, June 22, 1863.
               
                     the first time since the war had begun, a significant enemy force
                    had entered the state.13 With reports of Robert E. Lee's northward
                    movements into Pennsylvania coming over the telegraph wires and a false rumor on June 21 of a second
                    Confederate invasion of Indiana by a force of five hundred to nine hundred men, the feeling in
                    southern counties of the state became one of caution.14 As men mobilized for
                    defense during the second scare, it became apparent that such caution was not at all unfounded.
                    There were few companies ready to meet the raid and of those that hurriedly organized in the midst
                    of the presumed threat, most had no arms or ammunition.15 Somewhat surprisingly
                    it was the Democratic press that, while praising the turnout in response to the threats of invasion,
                    urged the people of the border counties to prepare themselves better for future emergencies.16
            
            Nevertheless, because the Hines threat had been met quickly and successfully, the inadequacies of the
                    state forces were largely ignored, and the mood of most Hoosiers was one of confidence and security.
                    The 
                        Madison
                    
                    Daily Courier promised its readers during the false alarm that the rebels were
                    being easily dealt with and that "their capture is confidently expected."17 At 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a city that had not yet been physically threatened by an invasion, the mood was also
                    one of assurance. In response to a report that the Confederates of the second invasion were planning
                    an attack on their city the Sentinel boasted: "In this they are mistaken.
                    If their force is only nine hundred,…they can only reach here as prisoners."18 Even state officials who probably should have realized the limitations of
                    local defense preparations seemed unconcerned. Their confidence stemmed from their belief that the
                    few regiments of regular troops stationed at 
                        Indianapolis
                     were more than adequate for the protection of the capital and could quickly be sent to
                    the southern portions of the state by rail if the need for them arose.19
                    Although Governor Morton was in 
                        New York
                     City trying to obtain funding for the state government at the time of the Hines 
                  
                     13 The only earlier force of any consequence was an independent
                            guerrilla group of thirty-two men under Adam R. Johnson who raided 
                                Newburgh
                            , Indiana, in July, 1862. See Terrell, Report of the Adjutant
                                General, I, 143–46.
                  
                     14 For rumors see New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, June 22, 23, 1863.
                  
                     15 Governor's Telegraphic Correspondence, General Telegrams,
                            vol. XI, pp. 79–85 passim, Oliver P. Morton Papers (Archives
                            Division, Indiana Commission on Public Records, Indiana State Library and Historical
                            Building, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     16 Paoli American Eagle, July 2, 1863; New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, June 20, 22, 1863. The Paoli American
                            Eagle noted that it was a group of citizens and not the state militia that had captured
                            Hines's men; see Paoli American Eagle, July 2, 1863; Jno. R.
                            Simpson to William R. Holloway, June 20, 1863, Governor's Telegraphic
                            Correspondence, vol. XI, p. 71, Morton Papers.
                  
                     17
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Daily Courier, June 23, 1863.
                  
                     18
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, June 23, 1863.
                  
                     19 A force was sent during the false alarm of June 21, 1863, by
                            Adjutant General Lazarus Noble. Paoli American Eagle, July 2, 1863.
               
                     raid, his personal secretary kept him abreast of the situation
                    and assured his chief that the first group of rebels had been easily captured and that there was
                    little or no excitement in 
                        Indianapolis
                     concerning the second invasion.20
            
            As the rumors of raids died down, the people of Indiana returned to their normal way of life. In June
                    the wheat harvest was in full swing, and the task, made even more difficult with many of the men
                    away at war, occupied virtually every waking hour.21 Moreover, in the absence of
                    a direct threat the organization of defense companies no longer seemed relevant. Hearing no reports
                    of Confederate forces any nearer than 
                        Tennessee
                    , Hoosiers quickly became preoccupied with other obligations and apparently regained
                    confidence in the state's military preparations. Indeed, for the purposes of repulsing
                    small unorganized guerrilla bands such defenses were sufficient, but on July 2 a larger force of
                    2,460 men and four pieces of artillery under the command of General Morgan were setting out from
                    Burkesville, 
                        Kentucky
                    .22 Hoosiers’ reactions to the combination of events
                    during the following week would prove to have great political repercussions in Indiana.
            After slipping past the Federal forces in southern 
                        Kentucky
                    , Morgan rapidly traversed the Bluegrass state, meeting only slight resistance while
                    cutting telegraph lines, transmitting false telegraphic dispatches, and sending out scouting parties
                    in all directions.23 By the time he reached the town of 
                        Brandenburg
                     on the southern bank of the 
                        Ohio
                     River, he had fully confused the Federal authorities.24
            
            Generals Ambrose E. Burnside and Jeremiah T. Boyle, the Union commanders at 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Louisville
                     respectively, had not an inkling of Morgan's intentions but from the reports
                    they received expected that he was heading for 
                        Louisville
                    .25 In order to 
                  
                     20 William R. Holloway to Morton, June 22, 1863, Governor's
                            Telegraphic Correspondence, vol. XI, pp. 86–89, Morton Papers.
                  
                     21 Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, I, 178;
                            Frances Higgins, "With Morgan's Men at Wood Hall Farm," 
                                United States
                             History mss. (Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ); Emma Ely to Edna 
                                Van
                             Pelt, July 13, 1863, Mathias C. 
                                Van
                             Pelt Family Papers (Indiana Historical Society Library).
                  
                     22 Duke, History of Morgan's Cavalry, 415.
                            The number of troops that Morgan was reported to have varied greatly, but estimates by
                            Confederates in the raid are all similar to Duke's. Union estimates generally
                            ranged from four thousand to eight thousand.
                  
                     23 For examples of confusion caused by false dispatches and the skill
                            of Morgan's telegraph operator, George A. Ellsworth, see Official
                                Records, ser. 1, vol. XXIII, pt. 1, pp. 702–703; James A. Ramage, Rebel Raider: The Life of General John Hunt Morgan (
                                Lexington
                            , Ky., 1986), 166; Harold Swiggett, The Rebel Raider: A Life of
                                John Hunt Morgan (
                                Garden City
                            , N. Y., 1934), 61, 66; William E. Wilson, "Thunderbolt of the
                            Confederacy, or King of the Horse Thieves," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, LIV (June, 1958), 126.
                  
                     24 For accounts of Morgan's raid through 
                                Kentucky
                             see Duke, History of Morgan's Cavalry,
                            414–31; Ramage, Rebel Raider, 158–69.
                  
                     25
                            Official Records, ser. 1, vol. XXIII, pt. 1, p. 679–710 passim.
               
                     defend that city and the supplies located there, Burnside ordered
                    virtually all the remaining regular troops and artillery away from 
                        Indianapolis
                     on July 4, leaving the capital without any substantial means of defense.26
            
            Though Indiana Governor Morton, like Burnside and Boyle, could not be sure of Morgan's
                    objectives, he was much more concerned about a possible invasion of his state. He had cause to be
                    worried. One of the few who had realized after the Hines raid that the state was poorly prepared to
                    defend itself, Morton had requested twenty-five thousand arms and twelve pieces of artillery from 
                        Washington
                     on June 29, but they had yet to arrive.27 Upon hearing of
                    Morgan's presence in 
                        Kentucky
                    , Morton had also called out the Indiana Legion, as the state militia forces were known,
                    and sent Adjutant General Lazarus Noble to 
                        Louisville
                     with "full power" over that body in hopes of stopping Morgan before
                    he could reach the 
                        Ohio
                     River.28 By July 6, however, reports from Boyle and others
                    convinced Morton that the threat of invasion was not serious, and he halted the mobilization of the
                    Legion until further notice.29
            
            While Federal authorities frantically attempted to discern Morgan's position and intentions,
                    the people of Indiana remained largely unaware that a threat existed. The first public reports that
                    Morgan had even entered 
                        Kentucky
                     did not appear in 
                        Indianapolis
                     until July 6, and the news did not appear in the southern Indiana newspapers until the
                    next day or later.30 The lack of information concerning Morgan's
                    advance was due to both poor communications and the widespread assumption that Morgan's aim
                    was 
                        Louisville
                    . So confused were the Federal authorities by Morgan's maneuvers, in fact, that
                    the Confederate general had already captured two steamboats and crossed his entire force into
                    Indiana before reports of his whereabouts reached them. Even when these reports were received,
                    Burnside doubted their veracity, still believing 
                        Louisville
                     to be Morgan's main objective.31 In the many Indiana 
                  
                     26 Ambrose E. Burnside to 
                                Orlando
                             B. Willcox, July 4, 1863, ibid., 685. Troop movements were
                            ordered at the request of Boyle. See Jeremiah T. Boyle to Burnside, July 4, 1863, ibid., 682. Terrell states that this action "left 
                                Indianapolis
                            , of 
                                United States
                             troops, only two companies of the Sixty-Third Indiana, doing guard duty at the
                            Soldiers’ Home, some hundreds of recently exchanged prisoners of the Fifty-First
                            and Seventy-Third Indiana, and a small number of recruits." Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, I, 174.
                  
                     27 Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, I, 174.
                  
                     28 Morton to Boyle, July 4, 1863, Governor's Telegraphic
                            Correspondence, vol. XVI, p. 232, Morton Papers.
                  
                     29 Morton to Boyle, July 6, 1863, ibid., 234; Boyle
                            to Morton, July 6, 1863, ibid., 235; various dispatches, July 6, 1863, ibid., vol. XI, p. 126.
                  
                     30
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, July 6, 1863; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana State Sentinel, July 6, 1863; New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, July 7, 1863.
                  
                     31 Burnside to Boyle, July 8, 1863, Official
                            Records, ser. 1, vol. XXIII, pt. 1, p. 705. The confusion created by Morgan in 
                                Kentucky
                             is elucidated in ibid., 633–711 passim.
               
                    
                    
                  Governor Oliver P. Morton Courtesy Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                             (Neg. no. C4776).
                newspaper reports of the raid printed before it was known that Morgan had crossed the 
                        Ohio
                     River, there was no speculation whatsoever that so large a force could effect a
                    successful crossing.32 Not until after Morgan had already disposed of the token
                    resistance he had met at the border and had crossed into Indiana were most Hoosiers cognizant that a
                    threat existed.
            During the few days preceding Morgan's crossing, Indiana, like most of the northern states,
                    had celebrated the news of Union victories at 
                        Gettysburg
                     and Vicksburg. Thus, when the firebells rang and runners went through the border
                    counties with the alarm that Morgan and a force of from four thousand to eight thousand men had
                    entered the state, the people were caught off guard, and pandemonium ensued. As Morgan's
                    troops were helping themselves to the spoils of war at Corydon, where they had attacked and captured
                    some 350 Home Guards who had hurriedly formed in an attempt to defend the town, the Indiana
                    countryside was finally 
                  
                     32 For reports that 
                                Louisville
                             was Morgan's target see 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, July 7, 1863; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, July 7, 8, 1863.
               
                     beginning to come alive.33 Men from all over
                    the state hurried to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in response to Governor Morton's call for "all able bodied white male
                    citizens" to organize in companies.34
            
            From both military and emotional standpoints Indiana's reaction to Morgan's raid
                    greatly resembled that which had followed the news of Fort Sumter in 1861.35 The
                    most obvious similarity was the supreme confidence the raw volunteers had in their natural martial
                    abilities. The 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    
                    Democratic Register, evidently writing from inaccurate preliminary reports that
                    only a part of Morgan's force had entered Indiana, lamented that it was "a pity
                    that the whole command did not cross over, for it is morally certain that not one of those now on
                    this side of the river, or those who follow, will ever return except as prisoners." Rather
                    optimistically it added, "This raid has not been unexpected, and preparations have no doubt
                    been made for it."36 At 
                        Madison
                     the editor of the Courier was even more assured of a victory,
                    insisting that the city was "actively prepar[ed] for a war fandango….So if the
                    Secesh pay us a visit, our rollicking Legion and Homeguards will teach the plunderers their steps,
                    put them through their paces and finish by initiating them in the saltatory mysteries of the gallopade.37 Everywhere the excitement raised the spirits of
                    Hoosiers, most of whom sincerely believed that they were fully prepared to meet the invasion.38
            
            
               
                  33 For excitement and organization of troops see Ramage, Rebel Raider, 170–71; Duke, History of Morgan's
                            Cavalry, 434–35; James A. Ramage, "Indiana's Response to
                        John Hunt Morgan's Raid," Journal of the Jackson Purchase
                            Historical Society, VIII (June, 19801, 4–5; Alice Ann Bundy, "A
                        Glimpse of Pioneer Life in 
                            Jennings County
                        ," 142–43, Alice Ann Bundy Papers (Indiana Division, Indiana
                        State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ); Higgins, "With Morgan's Men at Wood Hall Farm," 
                            United States
                         History mss.; Oliver C. Haskell diary, July 9, 1863, Oliver C. Haskell Papers
                        (Indiana Historical Society Library); Marie Ester Brandt diary, July 9–11, 1863,
                        Marie Ester Brandt Papers (Indiana Historical Society Library); Martha E. (Hutchings) Griffith
                        journal, July 10, 1863, Griffith Papers (Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        ); Emma Ely to Edna 
                            Van
                         Pelt, July 13, 1863, Mathias C. 
                            Van
                         Pelt Family Papers; Carrie Naylor to William R. Lowes, July 10, 1863, William R.
                        Lowes Papers (Indiana Historical Society Library); Harrison Daily to "Father,"
                        July 9, 1863, David W. Daily Papers (Indiana Historical Society Library).
               
                  34 For Morton's requests for troops see Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, I, statistics and documents, p. 300; 
                            Madison
                        
                        Daily Courier, July 10, 11, 1863; Governor's Telegraphic
                        Correspondence, vol. XI, p. 133ff., Morton Papers. Approximately sixty-five thousand men
                        gathered around the state within forty-eight hours of Morton's call, twenty thousand in 
                            Indianapolis
                         alone, making the capital city look like a "huge barrack." For
                        information on organization and excitement in 
                            Indianapolis
                         see Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, I,
                        178–79; Ramage, "Indiana's Response to Morgan's
                        Raid," 4; Lizzie Wilkens to [John Adam Wilkens?], July 21, 1863, John Adam Wilkens
                        Papers (Indiana Historical Society Library); Frank Ingersoll to "Sister," July
                        15, [1863], Frank Ingersoll Papers (Lilly Library, Indiana University).
               
                  35 Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil War, 206.
               
                  36
                        
                            Lawrenceburg
                        
                        Democratic Register, July 10, 1863.
               
                  37
                        
                            Madison
                        
                        Daily Courier, July 10, 1863.
               
                  38 One example of such optimism is found in a letter written early in the
                        raid
            
            
            
               Courtesy Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                         (Neg. no. C5190).
            
            
            Despite the grandiose rhetoric and overwhelming enthusiasm, the Indiana militia lacked the military
                    capabilities to challenge seriously a veteran guerrilla cavalry force.39 Very
                    few preparations had been made for the defense of the border since the Hines raid, and the hasty
                    attempt to organize companies around the state proved to be chaotic as few of the men had any
                    military experience and those that did often bickered over who should be in charge.40 Some areas failed to organize in time because the people still doubted that the raid was in
                    progress until it was too late.41 More detrimental to the safety of the state,
                    however, was the lack of arms and ammunition. A great number of companies had none at all. In other
                    cases arms were either such obscure makes or so out of date that the proper ammunition was no longer
                    produced. Not only were arms and ammunition not in the hands of the defenders of the state but there
                    were few available to ship to them, so while Morton was busy obtaining a shipment of muskets from 
                        St. Louis
                    , ammunition was frantically being prepared in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .42
            
            The result of the lack of preparation was predictable: by executing simple flanking movements Morgan
                    easily swept aside the few forces, such as those at Corydon, that dared to attempt to slow him
                        down.43 As Morgan continued his way across southern Indiana, his men
                    captured and paroled a small force at 
                        Salem
                     as well as the many careless Hoosier scouts they encountered along the 
                  by the editor of the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Saturday Evening Mirror to his uncle in 
                                Kentucky
                            . The Hoosier expressed his belief that by the time his letter was received the
                            "Morgan scare…will have become the amusement and laughing stock of the
                            whole country. Surely no fool would expect to conquer Indiana with less than forty times
                            Johns number…and though we are cursed with sympathizing traitors at home we are
                            abundantly able to take care of ourselves yet." William B. Vickers to Robert H.
                            Hitch, July 10, 1863, William B. Vickers Papers (Indiana Historical Society Library). See
                            also New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, July 9, 1863.
                  
                     39 Duke, having just come from "thinned out
                            ‘Dixie,’ " was amazed by the large turnout for defense. He
                            noted that "the ranks of the militia were full. I am satisfied that we saw often as
                            many as ten thousand militia in one day, posted at different points. They would frequently
                            fight, if attacked in strong position, but could be dispersed by maneuvering. Had they come
                            upon us as the fierce 
                                Kentucky
                             Homeguards would have done, if collected in such numbers, we could not have
                            forced our way through them." Duke, History of Morgan's
                                Cavalry, 439.
                  
                     40
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, July 22, 1863.
                  
                     41 Carrie Naylor to William R. Lowes, July 10, 1863, William R. Lowes
                            Papers; James P. Banta diary, July 8, 9, 1863, James P. Banta Papers (Lilly Library, Indiana
                            University).
                  
                     42 Governor's Telegraphic Correspondence, vol. XI, p. 133ff.,
                            Morton Papers; Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, I,
                            174–76.
                  
                     43 Duke, History of Morgan's Cavalry, 439.
                            For other general accounts of the raid through Indiana and 
                                Ohio
                             see Ramage, Rebel Raider, 170–82; Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, I, 170–96; Margrette Boyer,
                            "Morgan's Raid in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, VIII (December, 19121, 149–65; Wilson, "Thunderbolt of
                            the Confederacy," 119–30; Ramage, "Indiana's Response
                            to Morgan's Raid," 1–9. For accounts of the engagement at
                            Corydon see Corydon Weekly Democrat, July 14, 1863; New 
                                Albany
                             Daily Ledger, July 9, 1863; Attia Porter to John C. Andrews, July 30, 1863,
                            Indiana History mss. (Indiana Historical Society Library). W. Fred Conway, Corydon: The Forgotten Battle of the Civil War (New 
                                Albany
                            , Ind., 1991).
               
                     way.44 On encountering a more substantial
                    force at Vernon, Morgan held them at bay with a threat of attack while he moved his force peacefully
                    on to the 
                        Ohio
                     border.45 Although his avoidance of engagements was interpreted as
                    cowardice by most Hoosiers, to stop to fight against any force that could present a challenge to him
                    would have caused critical delays and resulted only in allowing the Union cavalry pursuing from 
                        Kentucky
                     to close more quickly. While the Home Guards wanted a chance to prove their manhood in
                    battle, Morgan was more interested in promoting chaos and preserving his force from capture.
            The Indiana Home Guards’ ignorance of military strategy went beyond their expectations
                    that Morgan should stand and fight to a complete misunderstanding of the guerrilla tactics that he
                    employed along his route. To the people of southern Indiana who had not been introduced to the
                    firsthand realities of war, Morgan's system of replenishing his mounts through the
                    impressment of horses from ordinary citizens was seen as an unmitigated act of theft, and
                    Morgan's name was seldom mentioned without colorful adjectives attached to it such as
                    "King of the American Freebooters" or, more commonly, simply "horse
                        thief."46
            
            In some respects such epithets were deserved. Morgan did for a time apparently lose control of his
                    men as they pillaged the retail stores of private citizens. At 
                        Salem
                     his men looted without any sort of method in a way that "seemed to be a mania,
                    senseless and purposeless." They took not only necessities such as boots, clothing, and
                    food but also such items as ice skates, a chafing dish, and even "a bird cage, with three
                    canaries in it" despite the fact that items of this sort were cumbersome and useless.47 Yet on the whole the value of the items taken by the Confederates was slight.
                    With respect to the personal safety of the inhabitants of the state, Morgan's 
                  
                     44 For accounts of Morgan at 
                                Salem
                             see Duke, History of Morgan's Cavalry,
                            436–37; Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, I,
                            184–86; Higgins, "With Morgan's Men at Wood Hall
                            Farm," 
                                United States
                             History mss.; Earl Gebhart Hedden, "The Battle of 
                                Salem
                             (Indiana) As Told To Me By My Father And It's Sequel," Earl
                            Gebhart Hedden Papers (Indiana Historical Society Library); William Stuart,
                            "Reminiscences of William Stuart, 1887," 72–80, copies, William
                            Stuart Papers, ibid.; James P. Banta diary, July 8–13, 1863,
                            Banta Papers.
                  
                     45 For accounts of action at Vernon see Duke, History of
                                Morgan's Cavalry, 437–38; Terrell, Report of the
                                Adjutant General, I, 184–86; Griffith journal, July 10–17,
                            1863, Griffith Papers.
                  
                     46 Corydon Weekly Democrat, July 14, 1863.
                  
                     47 Duke, History of Morgan's Cavalry,
                            436–37. In stealing these articles the Confederates seemed to be paying off the
                            North for the "scores that the Federal army had chalked up in the South."
                                Ibid., 436. Before crossing the 
                                Ohio
                             River Sergeant Henry L. Stone wrote that he and his comrades intended
                            "to live off the Yanks hereafter, and let them feel (like the South has felt) some
                            of the horrors of war. Horses we expect to take whenever needed, food and provisions
                            also….I just imagine now how the women will cry their eyes out at seeing a Rebel
                            army." Henry L. Stone to "Dear Father," July 8, 1863, Henry Smith
                            Lane Papers (Indiana Historical Society Library).
               
                     men were compassionate compared to the destruction the Union
                    forces inflicted upon the South. In fact, in a letter following the raid one Union soldier admitted
                    to his wife that Morgan's actions were "no werse than we serve the sitayns hears
                    [near Winchester, 
                        Tennessee
                    ] for we take every thing we can get and burn eny thing of thare fences and tare thare
                    houses down and burn them…we take every thing they have we dont leave the first thing for
                    them to live on thare is lots of them now starving for want of soup to eat."48 Another wrote simply, "You all have now reallized some of the horrors of civil
                        war."49
            
            To the uninitiated citizens of Indiana, however, the conduct of Morgan's men was
                    inexcusable, especially since they felt his avoidance 
                  
                     48 Benjamin (Benn) Mabrey to Lou Mabrey, July 20, 1863, Benjamin Benn
                            Mabrey Papers (Indiana Historical Society Library).
                  
                     49 Ballard Hardin to Mandy [his sister], July 21, 1863, John J. Hardin
                            and others, Sesquicentennial Mss. Project X42 (Indiana Historical Society Library).
               
                    
                    
                  C. C. Haskins's Sketch of the July 10, 1863, Looting of 
                                Salem
                            , Indiana, by General John Hunt Morgan's Troops Taken from Frank Leslie's Illustrated Newspaper, August 8. 1863 Courtesy Indiana
                            Historical Society Library. 
                                Indianapolis
                             (Neg. no. C4501)
                of combat denied them a chance at retribution. Ironically, it was precisely because Morgan
                    did not stand and fight that the Home Guards remained confident of their martial abilities. Even at
                    Corydon, where the Indiana militia had quickly surrendered, Hoosiers ignored the outcome and
                    believed that they had been victorious because they had inflicted more casualties than they had
                        received.50 Thus, because they were never put to the test, the Indiana
                    militia remained confident throughout the raid that they could crush their opponents if given the
                    chance and continued to blame Morgan's cowardice for their own inability to force him to
                    fight.
            Governor Morton and the military commanders of the state, however, began to have much graver doubts
                    as to whether the state forces would be able to deal effectively with Morgan. In addition 
                  
                     50 Corydon Weekly Democrat, July 14, 1863.
               
                     to questioning the loyalty of the people of southern Indiana,
                    the governor feared that Morgan would advance on 
                        Indianapolis
                     to release the Confederate prisoners held at Camp Morton, seize the arsenal, and
                    possibly gain control of the entire state. Such apprehensions were perhaps unrealistic; but as
                    Morgan proceeded unmolested toward the 
                        Ohio
                     state line, Morton's objective seemed to change from capturing the
                    Confederates to simply slowing them down so Federal forces could catch them or driving them from the
                    state to keep the damage they wrought to a minimum.51 In addition to the poor
                    preparation made to combat the raid and the lack of arms and ammunition available to deal with it,
                    Indiana had only infantry to meet and check Morgan's cavalry. Indeed, the state
                    "had not more than two hundred" mounted troops available to meet Morgan's
                        veterans.52 The dependence on infantry meant that a rapid deployment of
                    large numbers of troops to any specific point required the use of the railroads, which, of course,
                    had been effectively disabled by Morgan to prevent this action.53
            
            Of the few realistic opportunities that the Indiana forces had to intercept Morgan, most were lost
                    because of poor or inexperienced leadership. Perhaps the best chance of obstructing
                    Morgan's progress, however, failed apparently because of sheer negligence. This opportunity
                    occurred on July 13 as Morgan was nearing the 
                        Ohio
                     line. Having been informed of Morgan's movement, General Henry B. Carrington
                    was ordered to lead a trainload of troops to intercept him. Although the troops were all loaded into
                    the cars at 
                        Indianapolis
                     and ready to move at 3:00 p.m., a delay of six hours resulting from the fact that
                    Carrington did not appear prevented any chance for success.54 That same night,
                    as Morgan's forces 
                  
                     51 Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil War,
                            208–209; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, July 24, 1863.
                  
                     52 Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, I, 174.
                            In a few cases citizens formed into small squads using their own horses, but such groups
                            often caused more confusion than they were worth. One of the more comical incidents of the
                            raid concerned a dispatch received in 
                                Indianapolis
                             from one such enthusiastic group in 
                                Columbus
                             that discovered themselves in a quandary. Their dispatch read, "A
                            company of mounted volunteers has been formed here. They have no horses,
                            what can be done [?]" The reply, "Let your company of
                            ‘mounted’ men dismount and go afoot." S. Staufiser[?] to
                            William H. H. Terrell, July 10, 1863, Governor's Telegraphic Correspondence, vol.
                            XI, p. 193, Morton Papers; Terrell to Staufiser[?], ibid.
                  
                  
                     53 Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, I,
                            186–90; Pamela J. Bennett, ed., "Curtis R. Burke's Civil War
                            Journal," Indiana Magazine of History, LXV (December, 1969),
                            310–11; Seymour Times, July 16, 1863; Oliver C. Haskell diary,
                            July 10, 1863, Oliver C. Haskell Papers.
                  
                     54 Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil War,
                            209; Klement, "Carrington and the Golden Circle Legend in Indiana,"
                            46–47; the manuscript account of General Milo Hascall, who was finally ordered to
                            replace Carrington, states: "At nine o'clock at night however he
                            [Carrington] was not gone and upon Gen'l [
                                Orlando
                             B.] Willcox [military commander of the District of Indiana and 
                                Michigan
                            ] taking means to ascertain the reason, found unfit to trust with that or any
                            other duty. He [Willcox] forthwith placed him under arrest and ordered me to proceed with
                            the troops which
               
                     crossed into 
                        Ohio
                     undisturbed by the final bungled attempt to engage him in Indiana, the state's
                    brief experience with "the horrors of war" came to a close. Morgan would elude his
                    pursuers for another twelve-and-a-half days in 
                        Ohio
                     before he and about 250 of his men were finally captured near Salineville, 
                        Ohio
                    , less than ten miles from the Pennsylvania border.
            Nearly as soon as Morgan had left Indiana, the sense of danger subsided. At first there was a general
                    sense of relief and a feeling of pride in having come through the calamity with relatively little
                    loss and only a few casualties.55 As time went on, however, the citizens of
                    Indiana gradually became aware that their efforts had not been effective in slowing the advance of
                    Morgan's cavalry. Letters from soldiers at the front and editorials in newspapers in other
                    parts of the country pointed out these failures and effected much unease in Indiana.56 The 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Democrat, for example, chided 
                  I did, arriving just in time to ascertain beyond all question that the opportunity of
                            intercepting Morgan had been lost by Carrington's drunkeness and
                            inefficiency." Milo S. Hascall, "Report," Sept. 25, 1863, Hascall
                            Manuscripts (Archives Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ), as cited in Klement, "Carrington and the Golden Circle Legend in
                            Indiana," 46–47. Two attempts to locate this material as cited were
                            unsuccessful. This report was cleaned up for official publication in Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, I, statistics and documents, 276–77.
                            Carrington later asserted that even this edited account was erroneous. He claimed that he
                            had "never served under Willcox, and never received an order from him." He
                            also justified his absence on the night of July 13, in passing, "On the morning of
                            July 14, finding that I had recovered from ahemorage the night before…."
                            Henry B. Carrington to J. Frank Hanly, March 9, 1907, Henry B. Carrington Papers (Archives
                            Division, Indiana Commission on Public Records, Indiana State Library).
                  
                     55 Among those deaths that did occur, in fact, most had not been
                            caused by the enemy but had been self-inflicted. The worst of these resulted from the
                            explosion of a caisson of ammunition in the city of 
                                Indianapolis
                             and a case of mistaken identity by a new company of Home Guards. For the 
                                Indianapolis
                             tragedy see 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, July 14, 1863. The latter incident was especially tragic
                            because it occurred after Morgan had already exited the state. While responding to a report
                            on the night of July 14 that Morgan had been defeated at Harrison, 
                                Ohio
                            , and was retreating back into Indiana, Colonel Kline G. Shryock's
                            newly formed regiment became doubled back on itself in the dark and halted. In the
                            excitement of anticipating that the enemy was near, a gun was accidentally discharged; and,
                            assuming that they were under attack, the raw troops fired blindly into each other resulting
                            in the deaths of seven men and the wounding of over twenty. This incident crowned a week of
                            military failures by the untrained Indiana volunteers and inspired the 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                            Democratic Register to lament that the people could "now
                            appreciate the benefits of perfect discipline in the army." 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                            Democratic Register, July 17, 1863. See also ibid., July
                            16, 1863; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, July 17, 1863; Terrell, Report of the Adjutant
                                General, I, 195–96; Company clerk of the Abington Home Guards,
                            "The part the Abington Home Guards took in Morgan raid," Company Clerk Book of the Abington Home Guards, July[?], 1863, p. 27 (Indiana
                            Historical Society Library).
                  
                     56 Some examples of criticism from the field follow: "I dont
                            think they [state militia] deserve any more praise than other soldiers who have done their
                            duty. I hope the brave home Cowards will have a chance to make their mark yet and be
                            satisfied." Henry M. Scott to Edson [Adelman Wilder], September 1, 1863, Wilder
                            Papers (Lilly Library, Indiana University); "I suppose you have been nearly
                            frightened to death over Morgans raids…Ha! Ha! Morgans to much for the Militia
                            Boys." Caleb Gill to "Sister [Clara]," July 26, 1863, George S.
                            Johnson Papers (Indiana
               
                     its northern neighbor. Hoosiers had said "that if
                    Morgan went over on that side of the river they would take no prisoners. They kept their word, and
                    didn't take any."57
            
            Such criticism made the people of southern Indiana somewhat self-conscious that they had not lived up
                    to their boasts of routing Morgan's force. They consoled themselves by claiming that
                    Morgan's guerrilla tactics had not given them fair chance to do so. Praising the unified
                    turnout to the raid, the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    
                  
                            Franklin
                         Democrat announced, "Much to their regret, they [the Indiana Legion]
                    have not had an opportunity to meet the foe, but it is only because Morgan's horses are
                        fleet."58 Along the same lines the New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Daily Ledger claimed that Morgan's escape proved "that a
                    pursuing force cannot overtake a fleeing one."59 A similar response
                    came from a southern Indiana surgeon who wrote that though "it will be a surprise to the
                    world how he [Morgan] did slip through so many fingers and not get catched, the way he did [so] was
                    to dash right along and not stop to fight, he would wride down his horses and steal more as he went
                        along."60 To a state that had not succeeded in its first exposure
                    to direct contact with the enemy, the interpretation of the actions of Morgan as unorthodox and
                    criminal made for a reasonable excuse.
            Politicians adopted a different approach to justify Indiana's unsuccessful response to the
                    raid. Accepting the fact that Morgan had escaped them, the Republicans thanked the Confederate
                    general for rejuvenating the state's patriotism and praised the nonpartisan unity that his
                    presence had engendered. They believed that the invasion had finally succeeded in prompting people
                    to make sufficient preparations for defense. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal exulted, "[the raid] has evolved our patriotism; it has given us
                    a marvellous unity; it has organized our State forces, and rendered them efficient for any
                    emergency; and it has effectively cowed down sympathy with rebels."61
            
            The Democratic party also initially praised the patriotism displayed by its members. Democrats
                    believed the response to the raid 
                  Historical Society Library); "So if he [Morgan] creates much of an excitement in
                            the state of Ind. I shall conclude what is left there are not very remarkable in Spunk & fighting qualities." Tom Prickett to Malinda
                            Darr, July 12, 1863, Thomas Prickett Papers (Indiana Historical Society Library). See also
                            John W. Vaught to "Sister [Matie A. Magill]," William C. Magill Papers
                            (Indiana Historical Society Library); Stephen A. Miller to "Sister," July
                            17, 1863, Stephen A. Miller Letters (Indiana Historical Society Library).
                  
                     57 Reprinted with a defense of Indiana's actions in Seymour
                                Times, August 6, 1863.
                  
                     58
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            
                        
                                    Franklin
                                 Democrat, July 17, 1863.
                  
                     59 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, July 14, 1863.
                  
                     60 James Madden to C. J. Madden, July 15, 1863, Madden Papers (Indiana
                            Historical Society Library).
                  
                     61
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, July 15, 1863. See also 
                                Madison
                            
                            Daily Courier, July 15, 1863; 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, July 17, 1863.
               
                     showed that the claims of disloyalty previously asserted by
                    Republicans were unfounded. They had no intention, however, of allowing their political opponents to
                    use the raid to their advantage. While the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal praised Governor Morton for his quick action in organizing the state
                    defenses both during and after the raid, the Democrats began to criticize his actions.62 Although partisan politics in the border counties took some time to reemerge as the
                    people busied themselves with the work of organizing militia companies and tried to recoup their
                    losses, in 
                        Indianapolis
                     the Sentinel quickly began accusing the governor of negligence.63 Since support for the response to the raid could easily have been
                    misconstrued as support for the Republican administration, the Democrats criticized the poor
                    leadership displayed. Before Morgan had exited the state, in fact, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel was subtly inquiring as to why better preparations had not been made for
                    defense. The newspaper also criticized what it considered to be the governor's
                    "indiscriminately" large request for troops, which the Sentinel
                    claimed resulted in the loss of crops that were in the process of being harvested.64 Shortly after the danger was over, the Democrats continued their complaints by charging the
                    governor with poor judgment in his offer of Indiana troops to 
                        Ohio
                    , whose people "manifested no sympathy [for] us, instead of sending them
                    [Indiana troops] home to take care of their crops."65
            
            Realizing the political danger of praising too highly the loyalty of the Democratic response, the
                    Republican press defended the governor and countered the charges of the Sentinel
                    by contradicting its earlier profession of unity. In the process they did not go so far as to claim
                    that the response to the raid was a success but insisted instead that the governor was not the one
                    to blame for its shortcomings 
                  
                     62 Morton sent Generals Carrington, John L. Mansfield, John Love, and
                            James Hughes into the southern part of the state immediately after the raid to organize
                            cavalry companies of the Indiana Legion to dissuade future invasions. For organization
                            activities see New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, July 15, 16, 20, 1863; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, July 17, 1863; 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                            Democratic Register, July 24, 1863; 
                                Vevay
                            
                            Reueille, July 16, 1863; 
                                Cannelton
                            
                            Reporter, July 17, 1863; Paoli American Eagle, July 30,
                            August 8, 1863; organization document for the St. Marys Guards, July 29, 1863, Augustus R.
                            Markle Papers (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library); organization document for Veteran
                            Company in the Indiana Legion in 
                                Brown
                             County, September 4, 1863, Elijah H. C. Cravens Papers (Indiana Historical
                            Society Library).
                  
                     63For postraid regrouping and gathering of horses see Stuart,
                            "Reminiscences," 75–80, William Stuart Papers; "A
                            Story of The Civil War," 
                                Jefferson County
                             mss. (Indiana Historical Society Library).
                  
                     64
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, July 10, 1863.
                  
                     65
                            Ibid., July 14, 1863. For criticism of leadership see also ibid., July 16, 23, 24, 1863; 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                            Democratic Register, July 17, 1863; 
                                Aurora
                            
                            Commercial, July 23, 1863. Strangely, the issue of Carrington was not
                            exploited by the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, which, in fact, refuted an accusation of misconduct
                            that was levied by the 108th Indiana Minute Men. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, July 24, 1863.
               
                     since he possessed no more power than to organize and arm troops
                    to make them "ready for the use of the ‘military authorities.’
                    " The poor leadership, claimed the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, was the fault of the Federal authorities, especially Boyle, who
                    "did a good deal less than nothing" and was responsible for not returning the
                    regular Indiana troops to the state. Having thus absolved Morton from responsibility for the failure
                    to capture Morgan, the Journal proceeded to defend the militia itself. The Guard,
                    said the newspaper, was handicapped by poor information and a dependence on the rails for
                        transportation.66
            
            In retaliation to the accusations of ineptitude on the part of Republican leaders and in an attempt
                    to take the focus off the raid itself, the Journal also alleged, "there
                    is no doubt that Morgan was invited here, and informed of all he wanted to know while here, and
                    while on the way, by disloyal democrats.67 During the rest of July the Journal supplied "evidence" that Morgan had indeed been aided on
                    his journey through the state and insinuated that his success could therefore be attributed to the
                    help he received from the Indiana Democrats. Republicans backed these accusations by claiming that
                    Morgan had presented at both Corydon and 
                        Salem
                     a list of Indiana men who had modern arms, that he had no trouble finding good guides
                    along the way, that the KGC gave him all the information he wanted to know, and that he requested
                    specific sums of money from "persons who thought only their best friends knew they had
                        it."68 In order to dispel the Democratic argument that Morgan had
                    treated Democrats as badly as or worse than Republicans, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal maintained that the Confederate general had done so only after obtaining
                    what he wanted. Moreover, it claimed, such treatment proved only that even the despicable
                    "horse thief" Morgan despised such lowly characters.69 Other
                    Republican organs issued similar opinions, and one even went so far as to insist that Democrats who
                    had suffered losses in the raid should not be compensated by the government because they had issued
                    the invitation to Morgan and thus deserved their fate.70
            
            Quickly the political hyperbole regained and even surpassed its previous levels. The bickering over
                    who was at fault for the failure to capture Morgan and who had aided him while he was in the state
                    soon gave way to the question of why he had come in the 
                  
                     66
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, July 27, 1863.
                  
                     67
                            Ibid., July 18, 1863.
                  
                     68
                            Ibid., July 22, 1863. See also Klement, "Carrington and the
                            Golden Circle Legend in Indiana," passim; Klement, Copperheads in the Middle West, 156–57, passim.
                  
                     69 See note 68 above; see also Ramage, Rebel Raider,
                            173.
                  
                     70 Seymour Times, July 23, 1863.
               
                     first place. Again the two parties differed on their
                    conclusions. The Republicans claimed that the extreme anti-administration politicking of the
                    Democratic press had convinced Morgan that he would find support in Indiana. Conversely, the
                    Democrats asserted that the Republicans were to blame for printing exaggerations that all Democrats
                    were disloyal southern sympathizers who would jump at the chance to prove their devotion to the
                    Confederate government. The Democracy insisted that "upon this slanderous
                    abolition-republican party must rest, the entire odium and responsibility of Morgan's
                        raid."71 Yet, because their primary purpose was to affix
                    responsibility for the raid to the opposing party, editors and politicians took little notice of the
                    facts surrounding the invasion. Upon closer scrutiny few of the accusations issued by either party
                    can be accepted as legitimate.
            In all probability neither party had coaxed Morgan into Indiana nor was solely responsible for the
                    lack of preparation for defense. With regard to the contention that Morgan was invited into the
                    state by either party's press or that the Confederate general intended to create a
                    Copperhead uprising, little substantial evidence exists. All indications suggest that his actions
                    were independently conceived. Despite the orders of his superiors, which granted him permission to
                    make a raid in 
                        Kentucky
                     to cover General Braxton Bragg's retreat to 
                        Chattanooga
                     by disrupting Union supply lines, Morgan apparently intended from the outset to cross
                    the 
                        Ohio
                    .72 Three weeks prior to obtaining permission to enter 
                        Kentucky
                    , in fact, he had ordered his right-hand man, Brigadier General Basil Duke, to send out
                    scouts to "examine the fords of the upper 
                        Ohio
                    ."73
            
            Whether Morgan believed that by crossing the 
                        Ohio
                     he could better protect Bragg by drawing away troops from the pursuit or whether he was
                    simply fulfilling a dream of a northern invasion, his plans did not seem to include the expectation
                    of aid from anyone outside his own command.74 Indeed, the very fact that he sent
                        
                  
                     71
                            
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                            Democratic Register, July 24, 1863.
                  
                     72 On June 18 Morgan obtained permission to make a raid on 
                                Louisville
                            . His orders dictated that he would "as far as possible, break up and
                            destroy the 
                                Louisville
                             and 
                                Nashville
                             Railroad,…[and], if practicable, destroy depots of supplies in the
                            State of 
                                Kentucky
                            , after which he will return to his present position." Official Records, ser. 1, vol. XXIII, pt. 1, p. 817. Morgan, however, argued that
                            if he were allowed to cross the 
                                Ohio
                             River he would cause such pandemonium that Union troops massing in 
                                Kentucky
                             presumably to reinforce General William S. Rosecrans would have to follow him
                            in order to calm the populace. Bragg believed an invasion north of the 
                                Ohio
                             River would be unnecessarily dangerous and considered Morgan's
                            division too important to his command to be jeopardized in such a manner. Duke, History of Morgan's Cavalry, 409–10; Robert Underwood Johnson
                            and Clarence Clough Buell, eds., Battles and Leaders of the Civil War (4
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1956), 111, 634–35; Ramage, Rebel Raider,
                            158–62.
                  
                     73 Duke, History of Morgan's Cavalry, 411.
                  
                            74
                            Ramage, Rebel Raider, 158–82.
               
                     scouts to the upper 
                        Ohio
                     prior to his raid indicates that his stay would not be a long one as he well realized
                    that Federal troops from 
                        Kentucky
                     as well as the Home Guards of Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                     would not allow him to dally in either state.75 Thomas H. Hines,
                    who joined Morgan at the 
                        Ohio
                     River and who would surely have dissuaded any ideas about attempting to rally the
                    Copperheads had they existed, later asserted that the very success of Morgan's raid
                    depended upon keeping the expedition "carefully concealed" and relying upon the
                    "surprise and celerity of movement."76
            
            While partisan rhetoric was not the catalyst for Morgan's raid, neither was the poor
                    preparation for defense against border raids entirely the fault of one party or the other. Instead,
                    it was the result of several factors that were beyond the immediate control of either party. Perhaps
                    the greatest detriment to the formation of an organized and reliable force was the fact that prior
                    to the outbreak of war in 1861 there had not been an organized militia in the state for thirty
                    years. Since the laws that remained were often fragmentary and had been developed for other types of
                    threats, it was necessary for legislators ignorant of militia techniques themselves to develop new
                    laws for the defense of the state.77
            
            In formulating a new militia law the legislators were bound by their constituents’
                    conservative inclinations toward military service. The "coercive
                    principle," which to be effective would have required the sacrifice of personal
                    freedoms, "was so at variance with the habits of communities, entirely undisciplined in the
                    school of national adversity, so repugnant to popular notions of personal immunity from
                    restraint" that it would not have been generally accepted and would have been
                    unenforceable. Conversely, the "voluntary principle had in its favor the
                    element of popularity.78 Americans had historically depended on this principle
                    for all types of military service. The enthusiasm of the people in the opening months of the war
                    seemed to indicate that this system would continue to meet the needs of the state adequately and at
                    the same 
                  
                     75 Duke, History of Morgan's Cavalry, 411.
                  
                     76 Thomas H. Hines, "The Northwest Conspiracy," The Southern Bivouac: A Monthly Literary and Historical Magazine, new
                            ser., II (June, 1886—May, 1887), 442. The claim that Morgan was led through the
                            state by Copperheads does not hold up either. Not only had several of Morgan's men
                            previously lived in southern Indiana and knew the country but citizens along the way were
                            also commandeered to lead the force. For examples see Bennett, "Curtis R.
                            Burke's Civil War Journal," 306; Henry L. Stone to "Dear
                            Father," July 8, 21, 1863, Henry Smith Lane Papers; Benjamin 
                                Franklin
                             Ferris, "Rev. B. F. Ferris Tells How He Felt When Captured By Morgan:
                            Morgan's Peculiar Treatment of Friend and Foe," report from meeting of the 
                                Ripley County
                             Historical Society, July 15, 1923, pp. 3–6, 
                                Ripley County
                             mss. (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library); Benjamin 
                                Franklin
                             Ferris diary, July 12–15, 1863, Benjamin 
                                Franklin
                             Ferris Papers (Indiana Historical Society Library); "A Story of The
                            Civil War," 
                                Jefferson County
                             mss.
                  
                     77 Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, I,
                            136–37.
                  
                     78
                            Ibid., 137–38.
               
                     time would reduce the chance of arousing antiwar dissent.
                    Voluntarism was thus accepted as the foundation of the 1861 Indiana Militia Law under which the
                    Indiana Legion was organized.79
            
            Compounding the inherent problems of reliance on voluntary service, the Militia Law required no
                    enrollment and provided no inducement to volunteer. Except for those expenses incurred while
                    employed under a call of the governor for active service, all costs associated with the arming,
                    clothing, organizing, and drilling of companies of the Legion had to be borne by the individuals who
                    volunteered for them. When combined with the loss of time in the fields or at a business, these
                    expenses made even the most patriotic men somewhat apathetic toward militia service. It is not
                    surprising, therefore, that the organization and mobilization of Legion companies generally occurred
                    only in the counties along the southern border of the state where the threat of raids existed, and
                    even there the organization of those forces was difficult to maintain without the existence of a
                    direct military threat. Except for the Morgan raid, in fact, most of the central and northern parts
                    of the state seldom organized companies of the Legion.80
            
            While political leaders should not be dealt with too harshly for not creating a perfect militia
                    system initially, they can be held accountable for failing to alter that system when its weaknesses
                    were discovered. Unfortunately, the bills that were ostensibly devised to correct the problems
                    usually had no chance of passing into law either because they lacked constituent support or because
                    they were extremely partisan in nature. One such partisan bill was proposed by the Democrats in the
                    truncated legislative session of 1863. Its main objective was to modify the Legion in such a way as
                    to reduce the governor's influence over military patronage and his control over the Legion
                    by forcing him to share some of those powers with the leading Democratic officials in the state
                        government.81
            
            Democrats, of course, tried to blame the Republican party for the state's lack of military
                    preparation. It was, however, more the result of a flawed Militia Law and both parties’
                    obstructions to the attempts to improve it that the state forces remained largely unorganized and
                    poorly drilled at the time of the Confederate raids. After the Hines raid, in fact, the Republican
                    administration had 
                  
                     79 For the tradition of the voluntary principle of service in the 
                                United States
                             see Allan Millett and Peter Maslowski, For the Common Defense: A
                                Military History of the 
                                    United States
                                 of America (
                                New York
                            , 1984), passim. The 1861 Militia Law of Indiana is reprinted
                            as Document 47 in Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, I, statistics
                            and documents, 247–55.
                  
                     80 Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, I,
                            138–40. For descriptions of individual regiments see ibid.,
                            110–36 passim.
                  
                     81 It was this bill that finally pushed the Republicans to bolt the
                            session. Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil War, 176–77;
                            Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton, I, 236–39.
               
                     made some attempts to bolster the state defenses, but these
                    efforts came too late and were not generally supported as the majority of the population was
                    seemingly unconcerned about the possibility of a raid. Since the war had already been raging for
                    over two years by the summer of 1863 and the existing forces had successfully repulsed the Hines
                    invasion, most Hoosiers saw no need to take time away from harvesting their crops to organize.
                    Moreover, until the regular troops were called away from 
                        Indianapolis
                     early in the raid, the state had been much better protected. Thus, despite Democratic
                    allegations, the lack of preparation by the militia was due more to the adherence to the
                    conservative principles that the Democratic party itself was defending than the negligence of
                    Republican leaders.
            With the Confederate incursions into southern Indiana in the summer of 1863, the seemingly impossible
                    had become reality. Until faced with a real threat to their personal safety, politicians at home had
                    been able to exaggerate the positions of their opponents in attempts to exploit popular fears and
                    gain support for their own party. When legitimate threats did appear in the form of the invasions of
                    Hines and Morgan, such political hyperbole was rendered obsolete. To a public that feared for its
                    own physical safety, everyone's help was needed irrespective of political affiliations.
                    Driven by these same fears and caught up in the excitement of the moment, the politicians and
                    editors of both parties initially praised the nonpartisan response to the raids.
            As Morgan left the state and the panic subsided, both Democrats and Republicans found the political
                    situation in Indiana altered. In light of the overwhelming patriotic response displayed throughout
                    the state, Republican charges of disloyalty no longer appeared valid. Democrats, however, did not
                    attempt to exploit this fact. Since politically they could not take any credit for having been loyal
                    to a Republican administration or having made a patriotic response to a war they did not support,
                    they criticized the leadership that the Republicans had exhibited during the raid. Instead Democrats
                    claimed that their enthusiasm had not been a patriotic response at all but a reaction necessary for
                    self-defense. The fact that they had defended their homes and families against a group of guerrilla
                    "horse thieves" indicated simply that they had upheld the law; it did not by any
                    means represent support of the Republican administration or a rejection of the Democratic antiwar
                    platform. Such criticism not only allowed the Democrats to maintain their status as an opposition
                    party but also served to draw attention away from the fact that Indiana's poor performance
                    against Morgan had been due, in part, to Democratic conservative ideals toward military service.
            The Democrats’ quick return to negative politics left their members open to the old
                    allegations of disloyalty, and the Republicans  seized the
                    opportunity to perpetuate them. The fact that the response to the raid had not led to a successful
                    conclusion had left the Republicans open to criticism: in the absence of the Indiana General
                    Assembly Morton virtually ran the state government by himself and stood to be blamed for the
                    militia's failure to capture Morgan. Thus once again Republicans jumped at the chance to
                    equate the Democratic position with treason and even elaborated upon their previous allegations.
            In the end both political parties were more than happy to let the actual circumstances of the raids
                    be forgotten. Recognition of the enthusiasm that had been exhibited in the defense of the state
                    replaced the memory of the botched response to the military invasion. In turn, Hoosiers who were
                    self-conscious about their own performance eagerly accepted such praise. Soon political hyperbole
                    reverted to its preraid state and allowed all involved to ignore the troubling questions that had
                    been raised by the invasions. A return to the politics of war proved far easier to debate in the
                    absence of a direct military threat.
         
         
         
            Holding a Course: Professor John J. Schlicher's Dismissal from Indiana State Normal
            
                    Timothy R. Crumrin
                    *
                
            On January 3, 1918, members of the Board of Trustees of Indiana State Normal School gathered at 
                        Terre Haute
                     for their monthly meeting. Uppermost on their agenda that cold day was the case of Dr.
                    John J. Schlicher, a professor of Latin who had become a magnet for controversy. The previous spring
                    Schlicher had delivered a chapel talk that had provoked much comment. Although a colleague later
                    characterized the address as a "mild and thoughtful warning" induced by concern
                    "lest super-heated American citizens…use undemocratic methods at home"
                    in the pursuit of war aims,1 a number of critics had questioned the
                    professor's loyalty to the 
                        United States
                     and his support of the war effort. The board had stood behind Schlicher in 1917; but it
                    faced another crisis in January, 1918, this time precipitated by the professor's alteration
                    of a patriotic organization's membership card. As a result of this second controversy the
                    board voted not to renew his contract.2
            
            According to the trustees the dismissal implied no disloyalty on Schlicher's part; rather,
                    it resulted from his unwise actions, which had shown Indiana State Normal in an unflattering light.
                    The Latin professor, the trustees said, had "by his utterances and behavior"
                    seriously impaired "his value to the school"; thus, he was to leave the faculty
                    "as early as practicable" and no later than June 30, 1918.3
                    Schlicher, who had not been called to speak for 
                  
                     * Timothy R. Crumrin is archivist/historian, Conner 
                                Prairie
                             Museum, Fishers, Indiana. He expresses his thanks to Herbert J. Rissler, J.
                            Thomas 
                                Brown
                            , Mary-Margaret Byerman Bowles, and Robin Crumrin for their assistance in the
                            preparation of this article.
                  
                     1 William O. Lynch, A History of Indiana State Teachers
                                College (
                                Terre Haute
                            , Ind., 1946), 253. Indiana State Normal School became Indiana State Teachers
                            College in 1929. Ibid., 297.
                  
                     2 Minutes of the Indiana State Normal Board of Trustees, January 3,
                            1918, vol. VI, p. 459 (Indiana State University Archives, 
                                Terre Haute
                            ).
                  
                            3
                            Ibid.
                        
                  INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, LXXXVIII (March. 1992). ©1992, Trustees of Indiana
                            University
               
                     himself, later attributed his fall to "venomous
                    colleagues and the narrow bigotry of would be patriotic societies." Whatever the real
                    reasons, the professor's twenty-two-year association with Normal came to a clouded end.
                    Ironically, the board meeting took place on the same day that Schlicher had been recommended to the
                    War Department "to help in a work of benefit to the boys in camp."4
            
            The Indiana State Normal Board of Trustees reached its decision concerning Schlicher in a highly
                    charged wartime atmosphere that sometimes veered into hysteria. Prior to America's official
                    entry into the conflict, the Great War had not been an omnipresent entity for most citizens of the 
                        United States
                    . Although news reports and propaganda from both sides found their way into
                    American—and Hoosier—living rooms, distance and apathy lessened their impact.
                    As the war in Europe progressed, however, more and more Americans began to take notice; quietly, and
                    sometimes not so quietly, they began to take sides.5
            
            Early sentiment in Indiana was somewhat divided. Of the half-million Hoosiers who were foreign-born,
                    or who had at least one foreign-born parent, 50 percent could be identified as German, and many of
                    them still had close ties to their homeland. Nevertheless, as the war continued, most citizens of
                    Indiana—up to 75 percent, in fact—aligned themselves with the Allied Powers,
                    which were seen as exemplifying the democratic traditions so important to the 
                        United States
                    . Even many "Germans" expressed an antipathy toward the
                    "autocrats" of 
                        Germany
                     and 
                        Austria
                    -
                        Hungary
                    .6 Thus, even before the 
                        United States
                     joined the conflict, an anti-German feeling was discernible throughout the country.
            When the 
                        United States
                     declared war on the Central Powers in April, 1917, most Hoosiers, along with the rest
                    of the country, quickly closed ranks behind the government. All areas of society mobilized for the
                    war effort, public opinion included. Patriotic sentiment intensified, and statements of what did or
                    did not constitute loyalty abounded. Theodore Roosevelt characterized as "moral traitors
                    those in America who champion 
                        Germany
                    's cause."7 Indiana Governor James P. Goodrich
                    declared that no middle ground was acceptable and that there were only two types of Americans,
                    "patriots 
                  
                     4 John J. Schlicher diary, March 7, 1918. A transcript of the diary
                            for 1918 is in the possession of the author; the original is held by Schlicher's
                            grandson, John Brueckner, 
                        Louisville,
                                    Kentucky
                     .
                  
                     5 See, for example, Robert H. Ferrell, Woodrow Wilson and
                                World War I, 1917—1921 (
                                New York
                            , 1985), 6–8.
                  
                     6 Cedric C. Cummins, Indiana Public Opinion and the World
                                War, 1914–1917 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXVIII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1945), 46. Indiana's total population in 1910 was 2,700,876. U. S.,
                                Thirteenth Census, 1910: Vol. I, Population,
                            56–57.
                  
                     7
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 4, 1917; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Bulletin, October 5, 1917. The Indiana Bulletin
                            was a weekly patriotic publication issued by the Indiana State Council of Defense during
                            World War I.
               
                    
                    
                  John J. Schlicher 1917 Courtesy Indiana State University Archives, 
                                Terre Haute
                            .
               
                     and traitors."8 One test of
                    loyalty, many agreed, was "whether a man is wholeheartedly for the war and subordinates
                    everything else to its successful prosecution"9 any half measure was
                    intolerable. Local, state, and national government sometimes sought to enforce fealty through
                    legislation. In 
                        Indianapolis
                    , for example, an ordinance prohibited written or verbal attacks against the government
                    as well as any actions meant to disrupt industry. Watchdog groups such as the Indiana Patriotic
                    League and the Liberty Guards were formed to search out any deviation from the accepted course.10
            
            Obvious targets for the patriotic organizations were individuals who had even a hint of German
                    ancestry. Indeed, many Hoosiers with obviously German names promptly changed or Americanized them in
                    an effort to avoid guilt by association. Anti-German reaction ranged from the trivial, as when
                    people refused to speak to neighbors of German descent, to the tragic, as when a mob in
                    Collinsville, 
                        Illinois
                    , lynched a German immigrant. This germanophobia was "nurtured on the belief
                    that Americans had to loathe 
                        Germany
                    …to be fully mobilised…."11 Things,
                    as well as people, underwent name changes. Sauerkraut became "liberty cabbage";
                    German measles was made more acceptable, although no less painful, by its transformation into
                    "liberty" measles; and Das Deutsche Haus in 
                        Indianapolis
                     was renamed the Athenaeum.12 German songs went unsung, and German
                    books were unread or, worse still, were burned.
            The field of education was particularly vulnerable to the anti-German hysteria sweeping the state and
                    nation. Sharp-eyed patriots, looking for any sign of an unhealthy foreign virus, closely monitored
                    both curricula and teachers. Determined to exclude all anti-American material from the classrooms,
                    they demanded that school systems abolish the teaching of German, a ban supported by the Indiana
                    State Teachers Association.13 Teachers came under scrutiny for their personal
                    beliefs as well as for the content of their classes; taxpayers did not want those "guzzling
                    from the public trough" to be less than fulsomely loyal. A high school teacher from Decker,
                    Indiana, for example, was fired for opposing the United 
                  
                     8 Quoted in Clifton J. Phillips, Indiana in Transition:
                                The Emergence of an Industrial Commonwealth, 1880–1920 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968), 599.
                  
                     9 Quoted in Frederick C. Luebke, Bonds of Loyalty: German
                                Americans and World War I (
                                DeKalb
                            , Ill., 19741, 219.
                  
                     10 Phillips, Indiana in Transition,
                            601–603, 606; Luebke, Bonds of Loyalty, 214–17.
                  
                     11 Luebke, Bonds of Loyalty, 214–17,
                            quotation 244. See ibid., 3–26, for further discussion of the
                            anti-German hysteria in the 
                                United States
                            .
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., 247–48; Phillips, Indiana in
                            Transition, 603.
                  
                     13 See note 12 above. The Indiana General Assembly, which met in
                            biennial sessions in odd-numbered years, did not act to prohibit all teaching of German
                            until 1919, after the war's end. Phillips, Indiana in Transition,
                            603.
               
                     States's entrance into the war.14
                    Even those with distinguished records, such as John J. Schlicher, had to be circumspect if they
                    wished to avoid trouble.
            Schlicher had arrived at Indiana State Normal in 1896. Born in Merton, 
                        Wisconsin
                    , in 1869, he had studied under German-trained scholars at an academy sponsored by the
                    Evangelical and Reformed church. In 1888 he had entered the classical course at the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     and had attained his A.B. degree four years later. Upon graduation he had taught Latin
                    at Mt. Morris College in 
                        Illinois
                     for two years. From 1894 to 1896 he had done graduate work at the University of 
                        Chicago
                     until accepting Indiana State Normal's offer to head its Latin Department.15
            
            Indiana State Normal had opened in 1870 to train young men and women to teach in the common schools
                    of Indiana. Like other such normal schools, it was considered by some to be little more than a
                    vocational training center undeserving of the respect accorded a regular college or university. It
                    did not acquire the patina of the more illustrious academic institutions that featured education in
                    the classics; thus, it did not always attract "the best and brightest" in faculty
                    or students. Schlicher, in fact, joined a staff composed mainly of Normal graduates or alumni of
                    similar institutions. He was one of the few university-educated members of the faculty. Dr. Charles
                    Redway Dryer, one of Schlicher's contemporaries who had studied at 
                        Oxford
                    , found "very few college bred men" at Indiana State Normal. He noted,
                    however, that his colleagues were congenial and that several "had extraordinary native
                    abilities suffering from abortive educations." One of those thus described was William Wood
                    Parsons, a highly esteemed graduate of Indiana State Normal, its president from 1885 to 1921, and
                    later an antagonist in the Schlicher story.16 Schlicher, then, in terms of his
                    educational background alone, was a valuable addition to the Normal staff.
            After teaching at Normal for three years, Schlicher was granted a leave of absence in 1899 to pursue
                    a doctorate. He traveled to Europe, spending a year at the prestigious universities of
                    Göttingen and Berlin, where he researched his thesis on the origin of rhythmic verse in
                        Latin.17 Schlicher was one among many from 
                  
                     14 Howard K. Beale, Are American Teachers Free? An
                                Analysis of Restraints upon the Freedom of Teaching in American Schools (
                                New York
                            , 19361, 22–40.
                  
                     15 This account of John J. Schlicher's life was based on a
                            fragment of a Schlicher family history in the possession of his grandson, John Brueckner,
                            and on "Resolutions of the Faculty of the University of 
                                Wisconsin
                            ," December 2, 1946, Document 786 (University of 
                                Wisconsin
                             Archives, 
                                Madison
                            ). Copies of both documents are in the possession of the author.
                  
                     16 "An Autobiography of Charles Redway Dryer," pp.
                            20–21, Box 1, Charles R. Dryer Collection (Indiana State University Archives).
                  
                     17 "Resolutions of the Faculty of the University of 
                                Wisconsin
                            ."
               
                     the 
                        United States
                     who studied in Europe during the pre-World War I decades. Most came away with an
                    increased respect for scholarship and academic freedom. In fact, notes one historian, the
                    "vast majority of…Americans who studied in German universities…were
                    deeply influenced by their European experiences," which fostered an admiration for the
                    German culture and educational system.18 Schlicher's feelings about his
                    year at Göttingen and Berlin are unknown, but his diary for 1918 reveals a man keenly
                    interested in European affairs, one who was both curious and well informed about activities and
                    personalities abroad. Among other things he followed closely the "Russo-German peace
                    business" and kept up with European writers, reading such diverse fare as British Socialist
                    Henry Mayers Hyndman's autobiography and the gloomy work of Mikhail Artzybashev.19
            
            During his year in Europe Schlicher completed work on his thesis, and the University of 
                        Chicago
                     awarded him a doctorate in 1900.20 He resumed his teaching career
                    at Indiana State Normal that same year and over the next seventeen years published several textbooks
                    and many articles, both within and outside his field. His works ranged from a history of 
                        Terre Haute
                     in 1850 to Latin verse. He also tried his hand, less successfully, at writing
                        fiction.21 Despite his failure as a short story writer, Schlicher by the
                    beginning of 1917 had gained the respect of his colleagues for his scholarship, teaching ability,
                    and integrity. In a later assessment one professor remarked that Schlicher was "free from
                    prejudice to an uncommon degree" and "was inherently a believer in the democratic
                    way of living." Still another, when appraising the work of Indiana State Normal, felt that
                    Schlicher was among those few who could "float a faculty."22
                    By the close of 1917, however, the Latin professor's contemporaries no longer held such
                    universally high opinions. Ironically, his belief in, and espousal of, his democratic ideals aided
                    in his undoing.
            Indiana State Normal traditionally held a daily chapel period between 9:00 and 9:20 a.m.; all were
                    expected to attend. Members 
                  
                     18 Luebke, Bonds of Loyalty, 58.
                  
                     19 Schlicher diary, January 4, 13, 27, February 9, 1918. Henry Mayers
                            Hyndman (1842—19211, British socialist and author of Economics of Socialism, was
                            expelled from the British Socialist party after he announced his support for World War I.
                            Mikhail Petrovich Artzybashev (1878–1927) was the Russian author of such
                            dark-toned works as Sanine and Breaking Point. Schlicher was quite taken
                            with his books.
                  
                     20 "Resolutions of the Faculty of the University of 
                                Wisconsin
                            ."
                  
                     21 Schlicher's "
                                Terre Haute
                             in 1850" was published in the Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XII (September, 19161, 245–70. Many other examples of his work may
                            be found in the Indiana State Normal Normal Advance and the Classical Journal. Schlicher coauthored a textbook, The Elements of
                                Latin (
                                New York
                            , 1906), with Professor Clifford H. Moore of 
                                Harvard
                            .
                  
                     22 "Resolutions of the Faculty of the University of 
                                Wisconsin
                            "; Lynch, History of Indiana State Teachers College,
                            176, quotation 176n.
               
                    
                    
                  Indiana State Normal Chapel 1917 Courtesy Indiana State University Archives, 
                                Terre Haute
                            .
               
                     of the staff or invited guests spoke to the students on various
                        topics23 Schlicher, who often took his turn, addressed the assembly during
                    the first week of June, 1917. His comments soon enveloped him in a swirl of controversy. No precise
                    version of Schlicher's remarks that June morning was ever recorded. Later, even those who
                    protested the discourse admitted that they could not reproduce it from memory.24
                    Approximately one week later, in response to the uproar that his words had sparked, Schlicher
                    re-created some of his speech for publication. In this re-creation he expressed profound admiration
                    for President Woodrow Wilson's war message and avowed his support for the ideals espoused
                    in the president's speech. He adjured his audience to allow people their differences and
                    not to assume that being different was the same thing as being wrong. As long as people were in
                    sympathy with the aims of the country and the president, he believed, they should be allowed their
                    own point of view. People should not be censured just because they did not look at everything from
                    the same angle or display their sentiment in the same way. The object of his speech, he said, was to
                    promote "the value of clear and careful thinking."25
            
            A number of faculty members and students who had attended the assembly interpreted the Latin
                    professor's remarks quite differently. They viewed the speech as "non-committal
                    and querulous" at best, "distinctly pro-German" in its darkest context;
                    perhaps it was even an act of betrayal against America. The campus was soon abuzz with talk of
                    Schlicher and his supposed views, and the controversy quickly spread into the 
                        Terre Haute
                     community. The first published account of the affair appeared in the weekly 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Saturday Spectator on June 9, 1917. Under the headline "Not a Time for
                    Questionable Loyalty," the newspaper declared Schlicher's defense of Robert M. La
                    Follette, Sr., and other 
                        United States
                     senators who had opposed entry into the war to be the most objectionable part of the
                    speech. It also took Schlicher, and by extension other educators, to task for being less than
                    wholeheartedly loyal. The controversy at Indiana State Normal followed closely another incident
                    involving a local educator. In April the 
                        Terre Haute
                     school superintendent had refused to allow fiery patriotic speeches in city classrooms
                    because he feared such harangues might push impressionable high school students into an immediate
                    chasing of the colors. This "unpatriotic attitude" was the subject of an irate
                    editorial in the Saturday Spectator. Expressing sentiments similar to those 
                  
                     23 Lynch, History of Indiana State Teachers College,
                            351–55.
                  
                     24 William Wood Parsons to Earl E. Houck, August 24, 1918, copy of
                            letter in Schlicher's personnel file, Faculty Series, Box 9, William Wood Parsons
                            Papers (Indiana State University Archives).
                  
                     25
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, June 13, 1917.
               
                     in the article on Schlicher, the newspaper argued that anyone
                    who did not fully support America was a traitor.26
            
            To many, such a public airing of the problem reflected badly on Indiana State Normal. President
                    Parsons, who had been associated with Normal from the time it had first opened its doors, was
                    particularly concerned about the negative publicity directed at his school. The president had been a
                    member of Normal's first class and had served the school for all but four years of his
                    adult life. By 1917 he was in his thirty-second year as its president, and during that time he had
                    presided over its growth in numbers and prestige. Parsons himself had become a force in both
                    educational and Republican party circles.27 His labors to raise the status of
                    Normal had been long and hard; he was not about to allow anything to damage the school.
            Writing over a year after the 1917 incident, and after Schlicher's dismissal in 1918,
                    Parsons reflected that the Latin professor's speech was notable "not so much for
                    what it contained, but on account of the absence of any pronounced, clear cut stand favorable to the 
                        United States
                    ." "Certainly," he wrote in 1918 in response to a 
                        United States
                     Department of Justice inquiry into Schlicher's character, "it would
                    not have offended any person having the strongest sympathy with the German cauue."28 Parsons admitted that he had heard no pro-German opinions from Schlicher
                    prior to the 
                        United States
                    's entrance into the war. The Latin professor was, he wrote, highly regarded
                    and viewed as a "level-headed conservative, sound thinker on all educational
                    topics." The president did comment that others had brought him vague reports that
                    Schlicher's sympathies might lie with 
                        Germany
                    , but he failed to elaborate on the accusation.29 Parsons's
                    words may well have been colored by the 1918 controversy and a need to justify Schlicher's
                    dismissal, but they are also indicative of his feelings on the chapel controversy.
            In his 1918 recollections of the earlier incident, Parsons outlined the procedures that he had taken
                    to prevent the situation in 1917 from getting further out of hand. He had, he reported, telephoned
                    Schlicher on the weekend following the address and told the professor of the concern of the faculty,
                    school, and public about the "tone of his speech." Already, he said he explained
                    to Schlicher, government security men were investigating the situation. Parsons 
                  
                     26
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Saturday Spectator, April 7, June 9, 1917; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, June 11, 1917.
                  
                     27 For a brief biographical sketch of Parsons see Timothy R. Crumrin,
                                Guide to the Papers of William Wood Parsons (
                                Terre Haute
                            , Ind., 1988).
                  
                     28 William Wood Parsons to Charles R. Dryer, July 16, 1918, p. 378,
                            Presidential Correspondence, Letter Press Volumes (Indiana State University Archives);
                            Parsons to Houck, August 24, 1918, Parsons Papers.
                  
                     29 Parsons to Houck, August 24, 1918, Parsons Papers.
               
                    
                    
                  William Wood Parsons 1917 Courtesy Indiana State University Archives, 
                                Terre Haute
                            .
                offered Schlicher his own chapel time to "set himself straight" to all.
                    Schlicher declined, saying that the speech was misunderstood because certain people "did
                    not care to understand me aright" and "would be just as likely to pervert and
                    distort his second speech."30 Indeed, the Latin professor was surprised
                    at the reaction to what he saw as a gentle reminder of American ideals.31
                    Convinced that he was right, he did nothing to ameliorate the tension. Angered, Parsons prepared to
                    ward off any future attacks on the school.
            On Monday, June 11, the president rose in chapel to make clear the stance of Indiana State Normal on
                    the war. Before the faculty, students, members of the Indiana State Department of Public
                    Instruction, and reporters, he declared that the school was wholly in support of the government and
                    its aims. Such avowals, he said, would be reiterated every day in chapel if that was what it took to
                    make it fully understood. The speech—made, Parsons later admitted, "when his
                    brain was pretty hot"—was given wide 
                  
                     30 Parsons to Dryer, July 16, 1918, Presidential Correspondence.
                  
                     31 Schlicher diary, January 5, 1918. Schlicher would not, however,
                            have been surprised to learn that others were keeping the school's president
                            apprised of his actions. Although they did not point fingers in any certain direction, he
                            and a colleague later indicated that they suspected a spy or spies among their brethren. Ibid.
                  
               
                     play in 
                        Terre Haute
                    .32 Front page headlines in the 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Tribune read, "Kaiserites in State Normal Given Warning," and
                    the article labeled Parsons's address a notice "on all pacifists and those
                    disposed to quibble about the war, that the Normal school is no place for them." The paper
                    identified Schlicher as the one to whom the speech was most applicable but also stated that four
                    other faculty members had made statements that called into question the strength of their
                    Americanism. The names of the other transgressors were not mentioned.33 The next
                    day the Tribune featured an editorial endorsing Parsons's views and told
                    of rumors then circulating concerning lukewarm support of the war by unidentified instructors at
                    Normal. On June 12 the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News carried an account of the incident obviously rewritten from the 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Saturday Spectator story of a few days earlier.34
            
            After first refusing comment, Schlicher issued a statement on Wednesday, June 13. He averred that his
                    remarks had been misunderstood and affirmed his allegiance to the 
                        United States
                    . In an effort to show the absurdity of the pro-German charges, he told the story of his
                    parents’ migration to America to escape the oppressive German government, claiming that
                    it would be illogical to assume that he would then support that same regime.35
                    Schlicher's words may have eased some doubts, but, by then, the affair had elicited so much
                    comment that Normal's Board of Trustees felt that they must investigate the situation.
            Board members prepared a list of questions for Schlicher. They asked if he had been born in the 
                        United States
                     and if it held his first loyalty, if he would support the government even to the extent
                    of teaching patriotism in his classroom, and if he would fight for it if called upon. The besieged
                    professor answered the questions to the board's "entire satisfaction";
                    his contract was renewed for the forthcoming school year; and his name was listed alongside those of
                    other faculty members reelected to their positions.36 The board's
                    action closed a tumultuous week, but at best it had only dampened the fires, not extinguished them.
            Although the Indiana State Normal trustees had allowed Schlicher to retain his job, their decision
                    should not be viewed as approval of his actions. In effect, what they seemed to say was that he had
                    not stepped so far over the line as to warrant his dismissal. They voiced no ringing declarations
                    about academic freedom or integrity, 
                  
                     32 Parsons to Dryer, July 16, 1918, Presidential Correspondence; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, June 11, 1917; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, June 12, 1917.
                  
                     33
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, June 11, 1917.
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., June 12, 1917; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, June 12, 1917.
                  
                     35
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, June 13, 1917.
                  
                     36 Indiana State Normal Board Minutes, June 14, 1917, VI, 385; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, June 15, 1917; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, June 15, 1917.
               
                     made no avowals of the right to free speech. Indeed, in his
                    "Kaiserite" speech Parsons had declared that just because the 
                        United States
                     was a democracy individuals were not assured the right to "hold and
                    utter" any opinion they might have about 
                        Germany
                    . "No sane theory of government," he said, required such action.37 Had they been truly satisfied with Schlicher's explanation of his
                    remarks and beliefs, Parsons and the board could have used the occasion as an example of American
                    ideals at work—even in wartime. Further, they could have "thrown up the
                    barricades" in protection of academic freedom, an issue that was nowhere publicly
                    discussed.
            The board's apparent lack of regard for what should have been a prime consideration for the
                    school is not surprising. Academic freedom in America, "a precarious ideal in the best of
                    times," was in an extremely untenable position once the 
                        United States
                     entered the war in 1917. The years of the Great War brought "continuous
                    assaults on professors by hostile outsiders." Many Americans, in part because of
                    traditional anti-intellectualism and distrust of those in "ivory towers," viewed
                    the realm of higher education as a particularly fertile area for "disloyalty."
                    Considerable numbers saw the campus as far more likely than the barnyard or town square to nitpick
                    or find fault with the war effort. Theirs was a not altogether unrealistic assumption. Many
                    educators had reservations about the war, its assumed causes, and its conduct. From 
                        New York
                     to 
                        Oregon
                     colleges and universities harassed or fired suspect professors, partially because, as
                    historian Richard Hofstadter points out, "The American university, always vulnerable to the
                    opinions of the community, could not escape its coercive spirit."38
            
            The Midwest seems to have been an especially volatile area. Colleges in 
                        Illinois
                     (where at least four lost their jobs), 
                        Michigan
                     (seven), and 
                        Wisconsin
                     dismissed faulty members because of "suspected or acknowledged lack of
                    enthusiasm" for the war. William Schaper, chairman of the University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Political Science Department, was fired for such a cause. Schaper admitted to a
                    sympathy for the German cause prior to American entry into the war but afterward "stopped
                    his antiwar activities and accepted the necessity of supporting the government."
                    Nevertheless, he was called before the university's Board of Regents to answer questions.
                    Apparently his replies were less satisfactory than Schlicher's had 
                  
                     37
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, June 11, 1917.
                  
                     38 Among the best works dealing with academia and the war, and the
                            ones cited in this section, are Carol S. Gruber, Mars and Minerva: World War I
                                and the Uses of Higher Learning in America (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , 19751, 163; Richard Hofstadter and Walter Metzger, The
                                Development of Academic Freedom in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 19551, 495–506, quotation 495; Beale, Are American
                                Teachers Free?, 22–40.
               
                     been to the Normal Board of Trustees, for he was expelled from
                    his job. The 
                        Minnesota
                     professor, whose irritating manner further exacerbated his situation, had also
                    antagonized some powerful members of the community.39 Later, outside elements
                    also played a role in Schlicher's case.
            Schlicher was not the only Hoosier professor to find himself at odds with his school. At Indiana
                    University in 
                        Bloomington
                    , William E. Zeuch, a young instructor in the Economics Department, faced similar
                    difficulties in the fall of 1917. Zeuch wrote a letter to a newspaper in his home state of 
                        Iowa
                     to protest the virulence of what he saw as its anti-German propaganda. Like Schlicher,
                    his avowed purpose was to remind people that all Germans should not be seen as inhumane because they
                    lived under an autocratic regime that had taken them to war. He also wanted Americans to remember
                    that the 
                        United States
                     had been accused of atrocities in past conflicts. When word of his letter reached 
                        Bloomington
                    , the resultant outcry led to his resignation. In words strikingly similar to those that
                    Indiana State Normal's board would use in 1918, a university committee found that Zeuch
                    could "no longer be useful to the university," and he stepped down under the
                        pressure.40
            
            As with other cases, including Schlicher's, the community's disapproval played a
                    role in Zeuch's downfall, but the place of the "professoriate itself" in
                    "wartime violations of freedom" was central. With the advent of war in 1917 public
                    opinion closed tightly behind the government, and those few who deviated from the accepted position,
                    however mildly, were the objects of intense focus. Even on college campuses, the supposed bastions
                    of truth seekers, the majority brooked little deviation from the official views. Hofstadter saw this
                    closing of the ranks as the development of a "cult of loyalty," while historian
                    Howard K. Beale found that educators who should have been "standing for reason and critical
                    thinking" actually fueled the hysteria. Even organizations that should actively have tried
                    to ensure academic freedom tended to cave in on such matters.41 The American
                    Association of University Professors, formed in 1915, sanctioned four grounds for the dismissal of
                    professors, one of which allowed the firing of educators of "Teutonic extraction"
                    who might discuss opinions counter to those of the United 
                  
                     39 Gruber, Mars and Minerua, 174; William E. Matsen,
                            "Professor William S. Schaper, War Hysteria and the Price of Academic
                            Freedom," 
                        
                                    Minnesota
                                 History, LI (Winter, 19881, 131–37.
                  
                     40 For a more complete version of Zeuch's case see Cynthia L.
                            Baxter, "Indiana University, 1917—1928" (M.A. thesis,
                            Department of History, Indiana University, 1953), 18–20; and Thomas D. Clark, Indiana University: Midwestern Pioneer. Volume 11, In
                                Mid-Passage (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1973), 224–26.
                  
                     41 Beale, Are American Teachers Free?, 22;
                            Hofstadter and Metzger, Development of Academic Freedom, 496.
               
                     States government.42 Thus a professor whose
                    loyalty was questioned could not necessarily look to his colleagues for support. Indeed, his follow
                    educators were often the ones calling most loudly for his head. The controversy surrounding
                    Schlicher was certainly a case in point.
            The announcement of Schlicher's rehiring calmed the waters in 
                        Terre Haute
                     in 1917; his name disappeared from the newspapers; public furor died down. The campus
                    settled into its more leisurely summer routine following graduation. Schlicher's absence
                    from 
                        Terre Haute
                     that summer on a previously approved half-quarter leave undoubtedly helped to ease
                        tensions.43
            
            While Schlicher was away, the war effort throughout Indiana and at Normal proceeded apace; and as
                    American participation in the war intensified, so did patriotic sentiment. Indiana businessman and
                    conservationist Richard Lieber warned Hoosiers not to be blind to the "diabolical plotting
                    and depth of depravity of official 
                        Germany
                    ." The Indiana State Council of Defense published a resolution condemning
                    "all acts and utterances of a disloyal nature." Although aimed specifically at 
                        Wisconsin
                     Senator La Follette, the announcement was given as a warning to all.44 On the campus of Indiana State Normal enthusiasm for the war was just as fervid, the eye
                    for deviation just as sharp. Male students rushed to enlist or clamored for military training. Those
                    remaining on campus drilled on their own or under the leadership of teachers until regular army
                    officers were assigned to them. Faculty, too, joined up.45 Those who could not
                    participate militarily "did their part" in other ways. Female students knitted,
                    baked, or rolled bandages. Males too young or otherwise ineligible for military service went to
                    Indiana fields to help in the harvest. Volunteers gave time and money to organizations such as the
                    Red Cross or the Fatherless Children 
                  
                     42 Hofstadter and Metzger, Development of Academic
                                Freedom, 504. The three other grounds were conviction of disobedience to any
                            statute or lawful executive order relating to the war, association with propaganda meant to
                            cause others to resist compulsory service or regulations issued by military authorities, and
                            actions that tended to encourage others from rendering voluntary assistance to the
                            government.
                  
                     43 The Indiana State Normal Board of Trustees had earlier granted
                            Schlicher leave to attend special sessions at the University of 
                                Wisconsin
                             during the late summer and early fall. Indiana State Normal Board Minutes, May
                            3, 1917, VI, 365. Neither Schlicher's family nor the University of 
                                Wisconsin
                             could confirm his attendance at such a session, but records of the Board of
                            Trustees indicate that he drew no salary in August and only half pay for September. Ibid., 406–408, 420.
                  
                     44 Phillips, Indiana in Transition,
                            595–96; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Bulletin, October 5, 1917.
                  
                     45 The first faculty member to enlist was Birch E. Bayh [Sr.], then a
                            professor of physical training and later patriarch of one of Indiana's most famous
                            political families. Already well respected, he became something of a hero to others. The
                            school yearbook listed him first among those "with the colors" and carried
                            a glowing acount of his abilities and popularity among fellow officers and his men. Indiana
                            State Normal Normal Advance Yearbook, 1918, p. 157.
               
                    
                    
                  Captain Birch E. Bayh (Sr.) Courtesy Indiana State University Archives, 
                                Terre Haute
                            .
                of 
                        France
                    . Normal provided enthusiastic audiences for such speakers as the charismatic French
                    officer Paul Perigord and drill units such as 
                        France
                    's Blue Devils. In short, Indiana State Normal was "in step with the
                    times" and wholeheartedly in support of the war effort.46
            
            Under such circumstances Schlicher might well have been wise to monitor his statements carefully upon
                    his return to campus. Some at Normal apparently still did not entirely trust him; a list sent to the
                    Indiana State Council of Defense of professors who might be of service did not include his name.
                    That the Latin professor kept his views entirely to himself, however, is unlikely. His diaries
                    reveal that he held strong opinions about the press's portrayal of the war. He distrusted
                    the proselytizing and propaganda that accompanied it, although he indicated that he did not publicly
                    proclaim his feelings.47 An opinionated, "ruggedly honest"
                    man, Schlicher almost undoubtedly voiced his views. If he did, and Parsons 
                  
                     46
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, April 17, 1917; Indiana State Normal Normal Advance
                                Yearbook, 1918, pp. 117–19; William Wood Parsons to Routzahan, February
                            2, 1918, p. 62, Presidential Correspondence, Letter Press Volumes. It is probable, in fact,
                            that most Normal students and staff agreed with an editorial in the school newspaper that
                            called for the teaching of patriotism in schools. Those "pro-German
                            parents" who objected could, the paper said, remove their
                            "knaben" from school. Indiana State Normal Normal
                            Aduance, January 22, 29, 1918.
                  
                     47 Schlicher diaries, see, for example, January 3, 8, 15, 1918, passim.
                  
               
                    
                    
                  STUDENT ARMY TRAINING CORPS INDIANA STATE NORMAL 1917 Courtesy Indiana State University
                            Archives, 
                                Terre Haute
                            .
               
                     certainly believed that to be the case,48
                    the professor's outspokenness aggravated the situation when two new incidents cast further
                    suspicion his way.
            The first incident involved Schlicher's wife, Ella, who was a member of the Church of the
                    Brethren, a sect that often practiced pacifism and conscientious objection. Many persons thought
                    such terms euphemisms for cowardice and disloyalty and looked upon believers as patriotically
                    suspect. By all accounts Ella Schlicher was a devout woman who was known to affirm her beliefs
                    publicly. So heartfelt were her convictions that she "nearly lost her mind" when
                    her son Rudolph later joined the army. It was not surprising that her views, in combination with the
                    earlier controversy surrounding her husband, set tongues wagging in 
                        Terre Haute
                    . Rumors spread that she had written to Rudolph in college to tell him to
                    "remember he was a German and that he had replied he would." As Schlicher later
                    pointed out, the rumormongers did not take into account the fact that his wife had been born in the 
                        United States
                     to a Dutch family so long in the country that it did not know when the first ancestor
                    had arrived in America. Neither, he said, did the public consider that the statements purportedly in
                    the letter to Rudolph would have had to be reported by someone who had "the privilege of
                    opening the mails."49 Truth and logic nothwithstanding, some in the
                    community and at the college were obviously willing to believe anything derogatory about Schlicher
                    or his family.
            Another incident, which occurred near the end of 1917, effectively sealed Schlicher's fate
                    at Indiana State Normal. Again, the professor was something of an accomplice in his own undoing.
                    This time, ironically, his trouble sprang from his attempt to show his support of the 
                        United States
                     and the war effort by joining the Indiana Patriotic League.
            Formed in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in August, 1917, by diplomat and politician Henry Lane Wilson, the league, according to
                    one historian, "had little significance" outside Wilson's
                    "desire to remain politically active."50 Like other such
                    groups that mushroomed during the war, the Indiana Patriotic League took on the roles of cheerleader
                    and watchdog. Its stated purpose was "to encourage and stimulate an intelligent support of
                    this government now engaged in war."51 The league's power, as
                    was the case with similar groups, tended to depend on who was involved and how seriously they were
                    taken. A 
                  
                     48 Parsons to Houck, August 14, 1918, Parsons Papers.
                  
                     49 Schlicher family history; Donald F. Durnbaugh, ed., Meet the Brethren (Elgin, Ill., 1984); 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, June 24, 1918.
                  
                     50 Raymond L. Shoemaker, "Henry Lane Wilson and Republican
                            Policy toward Mexico, 1913–1920," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, LXXVI (June, 1980), 11211.
                  
                     51 Indiana Patriotic League constitution, Organizations Series, Vol.
                            I, p. 7, Indiana State Council of Defense Papers (Archives Division, Indiana Commission on
                            Public Records, Indiana State Library and Historical Building, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
               
                    
                    
                        Vigo County
                     branch of the league was formed in 
                        Terre Haute
                    . Composed of prominent men in the community, the organization was not without
                    influence, and one of the men who spoke to the membership was William Wood Parsons.52 In an effort to enlarge its roster, the league issued cards that presented information
                    about the group and its purposes. Prospective members were to read the printed statements, sign the
                    cards, and return them to the organization.53
            
            Wishing to enroll in the 
                        Vigo County
                     chapter of the league, Schlicher obtained one of the membership cards in late 1917. The
                    form contained a statement that suggested the league should help "to provide methods for
                    striking at open and masked disloyalty." Schlicher changed the phrase to read "to
                    provide methods for putting down disloyalty." Historian and colleague William O. Lynch
                    later concluded that the change was meant to protect the innocent who might be harmed by those
                    suspecting them of ambiguous "masked disloyalty." Schlicher himself said the
                    alteration was a spur of the moment decision made "without as much reflection as he might
                    have given it." He feared, he wrote, that the expression might be used by some to persecute
                    those who had fallen under "persistent misunderstanding and unwarranted
                    suspicion," an experience with which he was all too familiar.54 Once
                    more his idealism and forthrightness, and a seeming lack of common sense, had brought conflict.
                    Instead of protecting the innocent he had succeeded only in exacerbating his own situation. This
                    time the consequences were fatal to his career at Normal.
            Presumably because of the altered statement on his membership request, the 
                        Vigo County
                     Patriotic League refused Schlicher admission to the organization and sent a copy of its
                    rejection to Normal's Board of Trustees. The old charges against the professor resurfaced
                    and were added to the new one. The league and others called for Schlicher's dismissal.
                    Apparently seeing no alternative, the exasperated Board of Trustees washed its hands of the
                    troublesome professor of Latin without giving him a hearing. President Parsons was ordered to notify
                    Schlicher of the boards decision at his discretion.55 It was to be two months
                    before he did so. The president 
                  
                     52
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, October 23, 1917, June 5, 1918. One of the league's charter
                            members was Earl Houck, a mortuary manager, who was later to work for the 
                                United States
                             Department of Justice and to make official inquiries about Schlicher following
                            his dismissal. Houck's personnel file was obtained from the Federal Bureau of
                            Investigation, 
                                Washington
                            , D. C., under the Freedom of Information Act. The file revealed that Houck had
                            actively sought a position as special agent. Houck resigned in 1921 following allegations of
                            financial improprieties in connection with his expense vouchers.
                  
                     53 Lynch, History of Indiana State Teachers College,
                            254.
                  
                     54
                            Ibid.; Indiana State Normal Board Minutes, January 3, 1918, VI, 458; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, June 24, 1918.
                  
                     55 Indiana State Normal Board Minutes, January 3, 1918, VI,
                            458–59.
               
                     did not inform Schlicher of his dismissal until March 7, 1918,
                    the day after the professor's forty-ninth birthday.56
            
            In the intervening months Schlicher went about his business unaware that any decision had been made.
                    He taught his classes, fretting when they did not go well.57 And, in one of the
                    most ironic twists of his story, he became one of the Four Minute Men, speakers who went to movie
                    theaters and other gatherings to explain the war and exhort support of its prosecution. Again, he
                    fretted when he thought he had not done well.58 He also contributed "as
                    liberally to various funds…[as] circumstances permitted."59
                    In February the 
                        United States
                     War Department appointed him a member of a committee to set up training camp activities
                    for servicemen, although the propriety of a man accused of disloyalty performing such tasks caused
                    some to protest.60 At Parsons's request Schlicher also wrote another
                    chapel talk in which he once more outlined his views on the war. The new talk was approved by the
                    president, delivered in chapel, and later printed in the school's newspaper, the Normal Advance.61 It was well received by some at Normal but
                    did not, said Schlicher, change the minds of those who counted.62
            
            Why Parsons waited two months before telling Schlicher of his dismissal is uncertain. It may have
                    been that he did not wish further to disrupt the school so early in the quarter. It may also have
                    been that he was trying to pave the way for the announcement. On January 29 the school newspaper
                    began a seven-part series on the peril of Pan-Germanism. In a preface the paper reminded its readers
                    of the statement that "a German smells the same alive or dead."63 The Advance also published an address by Frederick Mutterer, a professor
                    of German. Headlined "A Loyal American," the preface to the address lauded
                    Mutterer as an AMERICAN in the "truest sense of the word" despite the fact that he
                    had been born in 
                        Germany
                    .64 Based on a chapel talk by Mutterer, the article may have been
                    orchestrated for the benefit of the institution and the public: following Schlicher's
                    departure, Mutterer became assistant professor of Latin.65 Why Parsons had
                    Schlicher give another chapel talk that might have gained him support is also a mystery. If there
                    was thought of giving Schlicher another reprieve, no concrete evidence has been found.
            
               
                  56 Schlicher diary, March 7, 1918.
               
                  57
                        Ibid., February 8, 1918.
               
                  58
                        Ibid., January 7, 1918.
               
                  59
                        
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Tribune, June 24, 1918.
               
                  60 Schlicher diary, April 11, 1918.
               
                  61 Indiana State Normal Normal Advance, February 12,
                        1918. 62 Schlicher diary, April 25, 1918.
               
                  63 Indiana State Normal Normal Advance, January 29,
                        1918.
               
                  64
                        Ibid., February 19, 1918.
               
                  65 Lynch, History of Indiana State Teachers College,
                        253.
            
            
            When Schlicher finally received notice of his termination, it came almost as a relief. He began to
                    think of how he would make his living. He busied himself with the properties that he owned and with
                    his classes. He even attended faculty meetings, which he likened to a "man attending his
                    own funeral." He sensed a "growing chilliness" around him after word of
                    his dismissal spread. Some colleagues commiserated, but others kept their distance. Still marveling
                    at the intolerance of some of his peers, he wrote that those expressing sympathy were not the
                    "ones that do the talking at back doors."66 Schlicher wrote
                    the Board of Trustees but apparently received no reply. For a brief period in early April he had
                    hopes that opinions might be softening when he heard of a mysterious meeting in President
                    Parsons's office. His optimism was short-lived as nothing positive came of the gathering.
                    Slowly he accepted the inevitable. In a poignant scene recounted in his diary he walked around the
                    campus where he had spent most of his adult life. It seemed to him "not so bad and with
                    several fine new buildings the institution makes quite a good showing."67
            
            In June the announcement of Schlicher's dismissal was made public. The newspapers noted it,
                    running matter-of-fact articles detailing the history of the controversy. Rather surprisingly, there
                    were no invective-filled editorials, no huzzahs for the squelching of disloyalty.68 No extant records document the reactions of the patriotic organizations, and at this
                    juncture the public in general seemed to take little notice. To some, however, the outcome had never
                    been in doubt. In his report to a Department of Justice investigator later in the year, Parsons
                    wrote, "I believe people who knew anything about the case and who watched the situation all
                    year expected nothing more or nothing less than what happened in Mr. Schlicher's
                        case."69
            
            Under the circumstances the president may have been correct. Few, if any, of the individuals who
                    might have altered the course of events attempted to do so. Schlicher, for example, did little to
                    help himself. A more cautious, less idealistic man would never have thought of altering the 
                        Vigo County
                     Patriotic League's membership card. A less-principled one would not have
                    issued warnings, however "mild and thoughtful," to "superheated American
                    citizens" who were using "undemocratic methods at home."70 Schlicher admitted that his actions had created a wide gulf within Indiana State Normal,
                    but he apparently did nothing to mend 
                  
                     66 Schlicher diary, March 7, 11, 19, April 25, 1918.
                  
                     67
                            Ibid., March 25, April 13, 1918.
                  
                     68
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, June 24, 1918.
                  
                     69 Parsons to Houck, August 24, 1918, Parsons Papers; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, June 22, 1918.
                  
                     70 Lynch, History of Indiana State Teachers College,
                            253.
               
                     fences. Unlike many others, however, he had the courage to speak
                    his mind, exercising rights for which his country claimed to be fighting.71
            
            Frederick H. Weng, Schlicher's colleague and friend at Indiana State Normal, believed that
                    Ella Schlicher's pacifism contributed significantly to the professor's
                        dismissal;72 her attitudes and opinions in other matters may also have
                    exacerbated the situation. There is evidence, for example, that Ella Schlicher, President Parsons,
                    and the Board of Trustees had less than amicable feelings for one another. The problem stemmed in
                    part from Ella Schlicher's belief that she and her husband had paid too much for a house
                    sold to them by the school.73
            
            Whatever blame accrues to the Schlichers themselves, however, the Latin professor was not well served
                    by Indiana State Normal or by his colleagues. Although described by Parsons himself as
                    "scholarly, well trained…and a superior teacher," Schlicher was
                    discharged with little regard to his long, meritorious service.74 Even had his
                    manner and accomplishments spawned dislike or envy, the professor's peers should not so
                    quickly have abandoned him or, perhaps more importantly, the cause of academic freedom. President
                    Parsons, too, must accept a share of the blame. Certainly, Ella Schlicher pointed to him: her
                    husband, she said, held a "wider view of German achievements than the narrow president of
                    the college."75 If anyone could have stemmed the criticism of Schlicher
                    and forestalled the board's action, it would have been the school's revered
                        president.76 None of the other faculty rumored to have shared
                    Schlicher's view was singled out, although apparently they refrained from public
                    statements. Undoubtedly the institution looked to its president for guidance and probably would have
                    followed his lead had he defended Schlicher's right to speak. Whether out of frustration
                    with the Latin professor, or to safeguard the 
                  
                     71 Schlicher's prediliction for independent thought does not
                            appear to have wavered over the years. 
                                Wisconsin
                             colleague J. P. Heironimous wrote to Schlicher in 1939, "The most
                            striking feature of your character is independence of judgement. You don't take
                            your opinions from books or magazines or newspapers, or what everybody else is saying. This
                            is a quality which I esteem highly; it is hard to preserve the power to think for
                            one's self when propaganda is flying around, as it is nowadays."
                            Heironimous to Schlicher, May 30, 1939. This letter is in the possession of
                            Schlicher's grandson, John Brueckner.
                  
                     72 Beale, Are American Teachers Free?, 21n.
                  
                     73 Schlicher family history; Indiana State Normal Board Minutes,
                            September 30, 1913, VI, 3.
                  
                     74 Parsons to Houck, August 24, 1918, Parsons Papers. 75 Schlicher family history.
                  
                     76 Parsons's correspondence indicates that he prevented the
                            firing of a janitor, partly because the man strongly supported the war effort and had a son
                            serving in the army. He also recommended a former student for a teaching appointment after
                            she proved charges of disloyalty lodged against her were unfounded. Parsons to Maurer,
                            October 18, 1918, p. 242, Presidential Correspondence, Letter Press Volumes; Parsons to
                            Schoch, July 3, 1918, p. 259, ibid.
                  
               
                     school that he had guided for so many years, Parsons allowed
                    events to run their course.
            Perhaps the best explanation of Schlicher's problems and of his eventual dismissal is the
                    most obvious one. In his history of Indiana State Teachers College, Lynch later commented about the
                    entire controversy, "If the public had been as sane in its thinking in
                    1917–1918" as in World War 11, Schlicher would have retained his job. Like other
                    such cases he became the victim of war hysteria.77 In 1917 and 1918 an aroused
                    America took little notice of constitutional or moral niceties if they were considered obstacles to
                    winning the war. Superpatriotism and intolerance abounded; in an "all or nothing"
                    time citizens were either "100% Americans" or suspects. Schlicher's case,
                    played out within this environment, was both typical and unique. As had been the case with many
                    others, his well-intentioned words and actions had damaged his reputation. Like Zeuch, he had
                    attempted to appeal to reason in unreasonable times. Like Schaper, he was fired despite his long
                    tenure and contributions to his school. The fact that he was not a newcomer as Zeuch was or that he
                    had not at any time supported 
                        Germany
                     as Schaper had made little difference. His own peculiar circumstances combined with his
                    ethnic background and his contemporaries’ inflamed emotions during wartime to bring about
                    his dismissal.
            After leaving Indiana State Normal, Schlicher looked for another teaching job but found none. He sold
                    his property in 
                        Terre Haute
                     and went in search of employment. For a time he returned to 
                        Wisconsin
                     and worked on the family farm. He made sporadic attempts to right the wrong that he
                    felt had been done to him, but no retribution was forthcoming. He wrote to the American Association
                    of University Professors’ Committee on Academic Freedom but was told that normal schools
                    were "outside the pale" of their jurisdiction and that they could do nothing for
                        him.78
            
            At the end of 1918 Schlicher was in 
                        Washington
                    , D. C. The government to which some thought him disloyal had hired him to work for the
                    War Department.79 Facing an uncertain future, he 
                  
                     77 Lynch, History of Indiana State Teachers College,
                            253.
                  
                     78 Schlicher diary, October 16, 1918; 
                                Jordan
                             Kurland, associate general secretary of the American Association of University
                            Professors, in a letter to the author, March 8, 1989, stated that no record of
                            Schlicher's appeal was found but that the association's records were
                            incomplete. Kurland confirmed that the AAUP might not have considered normal schools as
                            under their purview.
                  
                     79 In another of the ironic twists in his story, Schlicher's
                            position was with the Committee for Public Information, the government's propaganda
                            arm. He attained the position partly through his acquaintance with Indiana University
                            Professor J. J. Pettijohn, who held several high positions on both the Committee for Public
                            Information and the Indiana State Council of Defense. Schlicher diary, October 16, November
                            25, 27, 1918. A search at the 
                                United States
                             Department of Defense failed to unearth Schlicher's personnel file,
                            but a departmental spokesperson told the author that any such file was routinely destroyed
                            by the department.
               
                     looked backward on New Year's Eve. About his actions he
                    wrote in his final diary entry for the year, "I regret nothing, and have the satisfaction
                    of having held a course I need not be ashamed of."80
            
            
               
                  80 Schlicher diary, December 31, 1918. Schlicher eventually returned to
                        the University of 
                            Wisconsin
                         where he taught from 1919 to 1939.
            
         
         
         
            Saint Gene: A Review Essay
            
                    Richard Oestreicher
                    *
                
            
               Letters of Eugene V. Debs. Volume I: 1874–1912; Volume 11:
                    1913–1919; Volume 111: 1919–1926. Edited by J. Robert Constantine. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1990. Pp. lxxxvii, 591; xxix, 560; xxxi, 642. Notes, illustrations, indexes.
                    $120.00.,
            Like few political leaders of his era, and few American radicals of any other generation, Eugene V.
                    Debs generated an enduring cult of hero worship. To his Socialist party comrades and to political
                    soul mates of the Left ever since, Debs was a secular saint, the center of a modern morality play. A
                    talented man who looked as if he were going to be an all-American success story, Debs gave up
                    personal security to become the voice of the downtrodden and dispossessed. Ignoring his own safety,
                    welfare, and even physical health, he spoke eloquently for victims of capitalism who would otherwise
                    not have been heard. Twice he went to jail for refusing to abandon his principles, the second time,
                    at the age of sixty-two, despite the urging of friends who feared that his unsteady health would not
                    survive the rigors of prison. Indeed, when he left prison after three years, he was sick; and he
                    died only five years later without ever regaining his earlier vigor, a martyr to the cause.
            Anyone who quickly read through his vita might wonder why he attracted such adoration. During most of
                    his career as a national union leader, he served as secretary-treasurer of the Brotherhood of
                    Locomotive Firemen and editor of the union's monthly journal. In those years there was no
                    better example than the BLF of the elitist, conservative, business unionism deplored by the Left.
                    Were it not for Debs's leadership of the 1894 Pullman strike, his union career would rate
                    barely more than a footnote 
                  
                     * Richard Oestreicher is associate professor of history,
                            University of 
                                Pittsburgh
                            . His publications include Solidarity and Fragmentation: Working
                                People and Class Consciousness in 
                                    Detroit
                                , 1875–1900 (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1986); and "Urban Working-Class Political Behavior and Theories
                            of American Electoral Politics, 1870–1940," Journal of
                                American History, LXXVI (March, 1988), 1257–86.
                  INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, LXXXVIII [March, 1992) ‘1992, Trustees of Indiana
                            University.
               
                     from labor historians and nothing but scorn from his political
                    admirers. Likewise, as a politician he hardly seems noteworthy, elected to no office higher than
                    Indiana state representative. As a five-time presidential candidate he averaged only 3 percent of
                    the popular vote and never exceeded 6 percent. Although he was a prolific writer, he added nothing
                    to left-wing political theory and even his most enthusiastic supporters would not claim an important
                    place for him in the history of American letters.
            Yet Debs endures. He rates far more scholarly attention than seemingly more prominent contemporaries.
                    He has been the subject of two prize-winning biographies,1 many other books, and
                    recently an edited three-volume collection of his letters published by the University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press. The only other American labor leaders who have received even close to the
                    scholarly recognition accorded Debs have been Samuel Gompers and John L. Lewis, both founders and
                    longtime presidents of the nation's two largest trade union federations.
            Few of the politicians who received millions more votes when they ran against him for the presidency
                    have attracted as much interest from historians. To obtain a quick approximation of Debs's
                    scholarly prominence, I compared the number of entries for Debs in the subject listings of my
                    university library with the number for his political opponents and contemporaries. With 19 entries,
                    there were more books about Debs than about any of the losing major party nominees of his era except
                    William Jennings Bryan (22 entries). No books were listed for Alton B. Parker, the 1904 Democratic
                    nominee; only one each for James M. Cox and John W. Davis, the 1920 and 1924 Democratic contenders;
                    only seven for Charles Evans Hughes, the 1916 Republican candidate (as much for his judicial career
                    as his political); and only 15 for Alfred Smith. As for the presidents of Debs's era, fewer
                    books were listed for Benjamin Harrison (91, 
                        Warren
                     G. Harding (181, and Calvin Coolidge (17) than for Debs. Grover 
                        Cleveland
                     matched Debs (19). William Howard Taft (21) and William McKinley (27) barely exceeded
                    him. Only Woodrow Wilson and Theodore Roosevelt have received significantly more scholarly
                    attention.
            Clearly admiration for and study of Debs depend on something other than conventional measures of
                    political or organizational success. Understanding why Debs generated veneration, both in his own
                    day and after, may help us not only to understand Debs but, as importantly, to understand something
                    about American politics and the functions of political symbolism within it.
            
               
                  1 Ray Ginger, The Bending Cross: A Biography of Eugene Victor
                            Debs (
                            New Brunswick
                        , N. J., 1949); Nick Salvatore, Eugene V. Debs: Citizen and
                        Socialist (
                            Urbana
                        , Ill., 1982).
            
            
            Nick Salvatore's Bancroft Prize-winning biography, Eugene V. Debs: Citizen and
                        Socialist, offered one plausible explanation. Debs, Salvatore argued, was able to represent
                    himself as the culmination of a long democratic republican tradition seriously threatened by
                    nineteenth-century capitalist development (and, some would argue, all but extinguished in our own
                    day). Debs did so, according to Salvatore, by equating socialist class conflict with the moral
                    dualism of evangelical Protestantism: Good vs. Evil; God vs. Mammon; Labor vs. Capital. Certainly
                    not all of his contemporaries accepted such an equation, not even all of his admirers, but
                    Debs's ability to wrap himself in the mantle of outraged radical democracy struggling
                    against evil allowed him to stand for something far more central to American culture and politics
                    than his socialist utopianism. Salvatore's Debs was a hero to at least some of his fellow
                    Americans because they agreed that fighting the encroachments of corporate capital was the manly,
                    patriotic, and Christian thing to do. He failed to convince more of his fellow Americans, according
                    to Salvatore, because so many of them were in the process of abandoning radical democracy for
                    bourgeois conservatism.2
            
            The publication of a three-volume collection of Debs's letters gives a wider audience of
                    historians ready access to a sampling of Salvatore's most important source. I found little
                    in the volumes that would lead me to present a very different picture of Debs, but after reading the
                    collection I understand better why Debs, unlike any other American socialist of his time or since,
                    was able to situate himself in the center arena of American political and cultural debate. The
                    volumes were expertly edited by J. Robert Constantine. The editor included a straightforward
                    thirty-six-page introductory biographical sketch of Debs as well as copious annotations identifying
                    nearly all of the events or individuals mentioned in the letters. I found little to quibble with in
                    the biographical sketch or annotations. The University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press produced handsome and readable volumes.
            The volumes’ heavy emphasis on letters from late in Debs's career may be
                    disappointing to those who want to understand the evolution of his character. I had hoped to be able
                    to use the correspondence to learn more about Debs's background and early life and to trace
                    the shifts in his thinking as he changed from conservative craft unionist to socialist
                    revolutionary. Unfortunately, most of the collection covers the years after his conversion. Only
                    about 1 percent of the letters included in the three volumes were 
                  
                     2 This part of Salvatore's argument comes out even more
                            clearly in a brief article that appeared after the book was published rather than in the
                            book itself. See Nick Salvatore, "Response" (to Sean Wilentz,
                            "Against Exceptionalism"), International Labor and
                                Working-Class History, No. 26 (Spring, 1984), 25–30.
               
                    
                    
                  EUGENE V. DEBS SPEAKS AT A "RED SPECIAL’’ TRAIN STOP IN
                            ILLINOIS, CAMPAIGN OF 1908 Courtesy Socialist Party of America Papers, Special Collections
                            Department, William R Perkins Library, Duke University, Durham, 
                                North Carolina
                            .
               
                     written before 1890 (when Debs was thirty-four), only about 6
                    percent before 1897, the year Debs formally announced his conversion to socialism. I do not know
                    enough about the Debs papers to judge whether this simply reflects the actual distribution of the
                    collection or whether the editor chose to emphasize Debs's years of greatest prominence as
                    the Socialist party presidential candidate.
            Nonetheless, there is ample material here to understand Debs's character and attitudes, at
                    least in the later parts of his career, and to understand his symbolic appeal to his audience.
                    American political culture is suffused with idealism and moral fervor; indeed, the very definition
                    of nationality is based on loyalty to a set of political values (liberty and justice for all) rather
                    than to territorial integrity or linguistic or ethnic identity. Yet American politics is a dirty
                    business, and American politicians, because of the coalitional nature of our party system, are far
                    more likely to be safe, conventional, and bureaucratic than inspirational and visionary. They are
                    rarely men of ideas. The more we know about them, the more they disappoint our moral expectations.
                    Ideas or social conscience in American politics rarely come from politicians. Politicians are
                    necessary but usually not to be trusted. Ideas and moral vision come from political outsiders.
            Debs probably could have been a successful political insider. While still in his twenties, he rose
                    rapidly in both Indiana politics and national railroad unionism, but he abandoned these prospects
                    and chose instead to be an outsider. Whether Debs consciously thought about his political role in
                    such a way, these letters reveal someone who positioned himself outside of and above the normal
                    political fray, in terms of both national politics and the factional wars within the Socialist
                    party. He avoided political infighting, but he jealously and vigorously defended his personal
                    reputation for political integrity, in effect assiduously cultivating his canonization at the same
                    time that he professed to reject any role as prophet or hero. For example, he (and his brother
                    Theodore, who served as his personal secretary and answered much of his mail) regularly answered the
                    most petty and small-minded scurrilous gossip about his finances and family life in copious and
                    lengthy detail.3 He seemed quick to take offense at any suggestion of personal
                    failing. One sentence at the end of a letter from an old friend urged Debs to do more for Industrial
                    Workers of the World prisoners in 1917 because, by being denied Debs's active presence,
                    "history…is being cheated." Debs replied with a lengthy and bitter
                    recitation of his many sacrifices for the IWW. "Who was the first 
                  
                     3 See, for example, Theodore Debs to Editor, Our Sunday
                                Visitor, June 21, 1913, in Letters of Eugene V. Debs: Volume II,
                            1913–1919, ed. J. Robert Constantine (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1990), 51–52.
               
                     man appealed to by the IWW victims at Lawrence…who
                    issued one of the first appeals for funds to save Joe Hill…To whom did the Mesabi
                    strikers turn first when they were arrested…?"4
            
            Most of the party faithful supported his choice to remain above the factional strife within the
                    party. Benjamin Hanford, Debs's vice-presidential running mate in both 1904 and 1908 wrote
                    Gene on the eve of the 1908 campaign: "The leader must attack-attack-attack. His shield
                    must be so clean and bright that no shaft can scratch much less pierce it. Gene, you
                        are that man." Likewise, Fred D. 
                        Warren
                    , the editor of The Appeal to Reason, the country's largest
                    socialist newspaper, urged Debs to ignore the party's interminable internal quarrels,
                    "I love you as no other man on earth and nothing would give me greater pain than to see you
                    dissipate your energy in the hopeless task of keeping the socialist party straight."
                    Undoubtedly Hanford and 
                        Warren
                     recognized that Debs's image as no mere politician both motivated the party
                    faithful and gave socialist ideas a visibility out of all proportion to the party's actual
                    voting strength.5
            
            Debs's unique aura was perhaps best revealed in the reactions to his imprisonment for
                    opposition to American involvement in World War I. Nearly a quarter of the entire letter collection
                    consists of letters received from and replies to well-wishers while Debs served his prison term at
                    federal prisons in Moundsville, West 
                        Virginia
                    , and 
                  Atlanta, Georgia
               . The list of letter writers reads like a catalog of notables
                    of the American Left between 1919 and 1922: IWWs and Communists, left-wing socialists and prowar
                    socialists who had broken with the party in 1917, anarchists, feminists, civil libertarians, and
                    liberal public figures. Perhaps it is not surprising that Debs would be a unifying symbol for all of
                    the squabbling factions and sects struggling to survive the postwar Red Scare. The most striking
                    evidence of Debs's significance as an emotional symbol, however, are the letters by party
                    rank-and-filers. From a small-town Pennsylvania loyalist: "Dear Comrade how gladly would I
                    take your place if by so doing they would release you. Forgive me if I tell you that about a year
                    ago I wrote a letter to The Appeal and…to president Wilson…offering to take
                    your place in prison and serve to the end…of your term by so doing they would release
                        you."6 From a 
                        Louisiana
                     schoolgirl: "I have shed tears for you dear Comrade in prison, but of course I
                    know it is no 
                  
                     4 Bruce Rogers to Eugene V. Debs, April 1, 1917, ibid., 296–99; Debs to Rogers, April 9, 1917, ibid.
                  
                     5 Benjamin Hanford to Debs, May 6, 1908, in Letters of
                                Eugene V. Debs: Volume I, 1874–1912, ed. J. Robert
                            Constantine (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1990), 266–67; Fred D. 
                                Warren
                             to Debs, August 8, 1912, ibid., 533–36.
                  
                     6 T. T. Ritter to Debs, November 7, 1921, in Letters of
                                Eugene V. Debs: Volume III, 1919–1926, ed. J. Robert
                            Constantine (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1990), 265–66.
               
                     use. If Wilson only knew how my heart feels toward him for being
                    so cruel to you but he has no heart and can not understand. I pity him, and may God bless
                        him!"7
            
            It is hard to imagine that the political contemporaries who received millions more votes generated
                    this kind of veneration. Did President Harding's untimely death a few months after his
                    release of Debs produce as much grief beyond his family and acquaintances as Debs's
                    imprisonment? Perhaps it is not so strange that historians have accorded Debs more attention than
                    second-rate presidents. Our presidents rarely measure up as heroes. Quite rightfully John 
                        Brown
                     cuts a wider swath in historical memory than the president who occupied the White House
                    when 
                        Brown
                     attacked Harper's Ferry. More recently, I suspect that despite the efforts of
                    detractors to smear his reputation with tales of marital infidelity, Martin Luther King will remain
                    a bigger icon in the American pantheon than any of the politicians who wooed him, ignored him, or
                    opposed him. And even the collapse of misbegotten Communist utopias in the East will not turn
                    historians away from Saint Gene.
            
               
                  7 Hattie Norris to Debs, April 8, 1921, ibid.,
                        208–209.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Living Rich Lives: Memories of Hoosier Homemakers. Edited by Eleanor Arnold. ([
                        Indianapolis
                    ]: Indiana Extension Home-makers Association, [1990]. Pp. 244. Illustrations, map.
                    Paper-bound, $5.00, plus $1.50 postage and handling.)
            With the publication of Living Rich Lives, the Indiana Extension Homemakers
                    Association's oral history project, Memories of Hoosier Homemakers, is
                    now complete. Like the five preceding volumes in the series-Feeding Our Families; Party
                        Lines, Pumps and Privies; Buggies and Bad Times; Girlhood Days; and Going to
                        Club-Living Rich Lives offers abundant raw material on the lives of rural Indiana women
                    primarily from the 1890s to the 1940s.1 The final volume affirms the valuable
                    historical contributions made by Editor and Project Director Eleanor Arnold and the countless
                    Extension women, both interviewers and interviewees, who have recorded the revealing recollections
                    of rural lifestyles, customs, and values. As with the earlier volumes, however, Living
                        Rich Lives evades some crucial questions for understanding the history of women and
                    families.
            
               Living Rich Lives has three major sections, each with additional topical divisions.
                    "Wooings and Weddings" recalls first meetings with husbands, honeymoons, and
                    shivarees as well as courtships and weddings; "Women's Families" has a
                    segment on "Starting Together" and information on childbearing, childrearing,
                    church, retirement, and widowhood; "Women's Work" covers work at home,
                    paid employment outside the home, women's roles in society, and women's values.
            There is some repetition of material on childbearing, childrearing, and housework from earlier
                    volumes, but the unasked or unanswered questions about women's private lives are more
                    troubling. Living Rich Lives, like Girlhood Days, leaves the
                    reader wondering what roles mothers, other relatives, or, as was often true for urban working-class
                    youth, peers and popular culture played in the girls’ sexual educations. A query about
                    unmarried couples living together elicited the response that "we didn't even 
                  
                     1 For a review of these volumes, see Barbara J. Steinson, "Memories of Hoosier Homemakers: A Review Essay," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVI (June, 1990), 197–222.
               
                    
                    
                  NEW EXPERIENCES Courtesy Eleanor Arnold.
               
                     know what sex was in high school (p. 230)," but there
                    is no other information on sexual attraction or activity during their youths and courtships.
                    Although some interviewees had large families, many had only two children. How did they limit
                    fertility, and where did they obtain knowledge of birth control and contraceptives? There are only
                    glimpses of those who fell outside the norm of an enduring Christian marriage. "Nobody ever
                    got a divorce," one woman asserted, but another recalled that her "biggest
                    failure" was a divorce she "had to learn to live above…" (pp.
                    230, 129). Did she receive support or approbation from the good Christian homemakers in her
                    community? Because oral history is so effective in ferreting out details of lives not found in
                    written sources, gaps like these are regrettable, especially with the easy rapport between
                    interviewers and interviewees evident in this series.
            The disappointing aspects of Living Rich Lives are outweighed by the many
                    illuminating sketches of rural customs and experiences, three of which are the social roles of
                    churches, weddings and postnuptial celebrations, and multigenerational households. In small
                    communities churches were social centers for all ages, but they were particularly important for
                    young adults. A Scott County woman who married in 1914 explained, "You met your husband at
                    church; there wasn't anywhere else to meet him; you didn't go anyplace else. When
                    you went anywhere, you went to church" (p. 23). Following Sunday evening church youths
                    often gathered in homes for small parties. "We had five churches in a five mile
                    square," a 
                        Putnam
                     County woman recalled. "They had church on Sunday night and rotated, so we
                    would go wherever there was church that night" (p. 25).
            Although churches apparently facilitated social mingling and romance, they were seldom the site of
                    the small and simple weddings recalled by the vast majority of homemakers. Comments by a 
                        Grant County
                     woman are typical: "Most of the weddings when I was married-you never heard of
                    a church wedding. Most of them just went to the courthouse and got their marriage license and then
                    went to the minister's home or to the justice of the peace" (p. 45). Following the
                    ceremony the bride's mother served a dinner for the couple, the few guests, and the
                    minister. Some of the older interviewees emphasized the importance of an infare dinner hosted by the
                    groom's family the day after the wedding. The infare was a conscious merging of extended
                    families, "the gathering of all the relations on both sides to wish the bride and groom a
                    long, happy and useful life…" (p. 50). The shivaree, which occurred sometime
                    during the first week after a marriage, was another rural custom with clear expectations: 
                        Well, your friends and people surprise you one night. You are supposed to get a lot of candy
                            and snacks and so forth as soon as you are married, because you never know when they are
                            coming. They sneak up on you about midnight when you are 
                            
                        A WEDDING PORTRAIT Courtesy Eleanor Arnold
                      in bed sound asleep and then come and start hammering and banging pots and pans
                            and all sorts of things and yell and sing. You have to go and invite them in. Treat them,
                            and then they stay as long as they want (pp. 66–67).
                     Several couples were also "kidnapped" and taken for rides throughout the
                    countryside, and it is not surprising that some women were "scared to death" at
                    the prospect of their shivarees (pp. 70, 71).
            Finally, multigenerational households were quite common in rural Indiana, particularly when a son
                    went to work on the family farm. Living Rich Lives provides fascinating insights
                    into the complex dynamics of these households. What some thought would be only a temporary
                    expediency proved to be a lifelong arrangement. Although both generations of women had to make
                    adjustments, there was little doubt about who was in charge. "So we just lived with his
                    mother and helped take care of the farm," one woman recalled. "Of course, she was
                    the head of the house and I did as she wanted" (p. 79). Pearl McCall remembered her own
                    mother's  words: "My mother gave me the best
                    advice that any mother could have given her daughter. She said, ‘Pearl, you are going in
                    that house up there, and just remember that it is her house’ " (p. 126).
                    Although it was sometimes hard, McCall followed this counsel and "didn't have the
                    difficulties that a lot of girls had, because…she was never sharp and she was lenient
                    about a lot of things" p. 126). Family historians have examined landholding patterns within
                    families, but the homemakers' remarks suggest that there is also much to be learned about
                    the internal dynamics of rural families.
            The entire Memories of Hoosier Homemakers series deserves a wide readership, for
                    each volume contains fascinating material on Indiana's rural past. Individuals offering
                    courses in Indiana, twentieth-century, family, or women's history should consider adding
                    one of these volumes to their course reading lists. The recollections recorded by the Indiana
                    Extension Homemakers Association are rich primary sources for undergraduates who too often feel no
                    connection with the past.
            BARBARA J. STEINSON is associate professor and chair of the history department, DePauw
                    University, 
                        Greencastle
                    , Indiana. She has published American Women's Activism in World
                        War I (1982).
         
         
            
               
                  
                            DeKalb County
                        , 1837–1987. Volumes One A and B, 
                  
                            DeKalb County
                         Topical History. By John Martin Smith. Volume Two, 
                  
                            DeKalb County
                         Families. Edited by Troas May 
                        Wise
                    . (
                        Auburn
                    , Ind.: 
                        DeKalb
                     Sesquicentennial, Inc., 1990. Pp. xxxiv, 1512; 816. Illustrations, maps, tables,
                    indexes. $89.00, plus $4.45 sales tax and $6.00 shipping.)
            The sheer bulk, and weight, of this work on 
                        DeKalb County
                     attracts attention. Volume I is a topical history in two parts, A and B, which together
                    total 1,392 pages plus an index of 118 pages. Volume II is devoted to the families of 
                        DeKalb County
                     and boasts 679 pages in addition to an index of 134 pages.
            John Martin Smith has produced for the 
                        DeKalb
                     sesquicentennial celebration a valuable and enduring work that will help to preserve
                    the rich heritage of this largely agricultural community. This is a good, old-fashioned county
                    history with some new twists. The organization of Volume I is precise. Topically arranged, it
                    encompasses the major facets of the county's experiences from its earliest years. Indeed,
                    it takes the form of a published version of a local historical society's files. It is quick
                    and easy to use in any search for pertinent information about a very wide variety of subjects. Smith
                    has assembled some of his own writings, but the work of others, from miscellaneous publications and
                    the area newspapers, compose most of the volume. The most enticing aspect of the book are the many
                    vignettes that result from interviews with a 
                    
                  WOODEN SIGN, C. 1920, ORIGINALLY LOCATED ON STATE ROAD 8 AT DEKALB-NOBLE COUNTY LINE. FOUND
                            PARTIALLY BURIED, IT W A S RESTORED BY THE AUTHOR. Courtesy John Martin Smith.
                host of local residents who recall their own experiences or the tales handed down to them.
            It is interesting that the title page does not say that this is a "history" of 
                        DeKalb County
                    , for in some significant ways it is not. It may more accurately be described as a
                    source book. There is little attempt to analyze the forces that have shaped the community, and there
                    is no critical assessment of the many developments in 
                        DeKalb County
                     during its 150 years. In other ways, however, it is every bit a
                    "history," for there is a great deal of raw material that wonderfully reveals the 
                        DeKalb
                     people within living memory. Particularly important, too, are the large number of
                    photographs, though it would be helpful if they were accompanied by source citations. The work also
                    abounds in lists of all kinds, from compilations of all the 
                        DeKalb
                     political figures and the farmers' threshing ring of 1920 to the members of
                    detective associations and the examining physicians of the draft board. Unfortunately, however,
                    there is no bibliography. The essay on the sources to be found in 
                        DeKalb County
                     provides a good introduction to where to begin research in local history.
            Volume 11, the "Family Histories," edited by Troas May 
                        Wise
                    , a genealogist from 
                        Auburn
                    , is also a mine of information. While the volume is reminiscent of the traditional
                    county history that was produced through subscription sales of family histories, this work took a
                    refreshingly democratic approach. 
                        Wise
                     not only solicited family histories through the usual channels, she also devised a
                    "short form, fill-in-the-blank" survey for those families that felt awkward
                    writing about themselves, or writing at all. The volume  is not
                    only full of good genealogical material, it is a compelling "family portrait" of 
                        DeKalb County
                    .
            Though primarily useful as a reference, this work offers much in the way of example for other modern
                    county histories that seek to record and preserve local memory and viewpoints. Such accounts are at
                    the core of the nation's history.
            MICHAEL HAWFIELD is executive director of the 
                        Allen County
                    -Fort 
                        Wayne
                     Historical Society and a vice-president of the Midwest Museums Conference. He is the
                    author of several works on Fort 
                        Wayne
                     history, teaches history at Indiana University-Purdue University at Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , and serves as chairman of the Fort 
                        Wayne
                     Historic Preservation Review Board.
         
         
            
               The 
                            Ohio
                         River. By John Ed Pearce. Photographs by Richard Nugent. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1989. Pp. [191]. Illustrations. $45.00.)
            From its headwaters at 
                        Pittsburgh
                     the 
                        Ohio
                     River flows nearly a thousand miles to Cairo, 
                        Illinois
                    , where it joins the 
                        Mississippi
                     on its way to the sea. John Ed Pearce, one of the most widely read journalists in 
                        Kentucky
                     and well known to readers of 
                        Louisville
                    's Courier-Journal, and Richard Nugent, a 
                        Louisville
                    -based commercial photographer formerly on the staff of the Courier-Journal Sunday magazine, traveled the river that the French called La
                        Belle Rivière-beautiful river-in a 26-foot cabin cruiser and collaborated on a
                    book that is equal to its subject in visual beauty and in broad appeal. 
                        Text
                     and photographs complement each other splendidly as readers follow the course of the
                    river from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to Cairo. The end papers consist of a nicely drawn map by Dan Pomeroy that clearly
                    identifies the places discussed or photographed along the length of the journey.
            Pearce weaves description, history, legend, folklore, interviews, ruminations, character sketches,
                    and information (about locks and dams, tugs and tows, flooding and flood walls, pollution and
                    efforts to clean up the river) into a narrative that flows along as smoothly as the 
                        Ohio
                     on a lazy summer day. There are many memorable characters, from the late Harlan
                    Hubbard—"a painter of 
                        Ohio
                     River scenes, a sensitive writer, and perhaps the last of the shantyboat
                    artists"—to Captain John Beatty, who lives a mile west of 
                  Warsaw, Kentucky
               , and who has done "about everything there is to do on the
                    river." Asked when he will quit, he replies, "Never thought of it. I'm
                    only seventy-five…. What would I do if I quit" (pp. 135, 122)? Readers are taken
                    on board Ashland Oil's 150-foot-long towboat Valvoline for a visit with
                    Captain Harvey Kiser and his crew, through the J. M. Stuart Generating Station near Aberdeen, 
                        Ohio
                    , onto the Coast Guard buoy tender Chippewa, and into the puzzlingly
                    named Fifth Third Bank of Belleview, 
                        Kentucky
                    . The "intrepid travelers" braved shortages of food and money, as did
                         their eighteenth- and early nineteenth-century counterparts,
                    but also had to contend with the need to replenish gasoline and with "mosquitoes so large
                    they carry off eagles" (p. 158).
            Nugent's photographs-138 in color and 56 in black and white-exquisitely capture the many
                    faces of the 
                        Ohio
                     River. The pictures delight the eye and the mind and provide vivid contrasts from the
                    idle mill at Industry, Pennsylvania, to the industrial activity at Dravo Island, Pennsylvania; from
                    the gleaming 
                        Pittsburgh
                     skyline just before daybreak to the decaying remnants of what was to have become a
                    metropolis at America, 
                        Illinois
                    ; from the bustling array of steamboats at 
                        Cincinnati
                    's "Tall Stacks" bicentennial celebration to the deserted
                    shantyboat near Harrod's Creek, 
                        Kentucky
                    ; from a pretty girl on a swing near the Indiana town of Rising Sun to the smiling
                    portrait of "spry and bright-eyed" Captain Frederick Way, Jr., of Sewickley,
                    Pennsylvania, "born just after the turn of the century" and "totally
                    involved in the 
                        Ohio
                     since he was in knee pants" (p. 10). From the photograph of the confluence of
                    the Muskingum and 
                        Ohio
                     rivers at Marietta, 
                        Ohio
                    , to the shot of the Rabbit Hash, 
                        Kentucky
                    , General Store, "since 1831" purveyors of tobacco, sundries, potions,
                    and notions, Nugent has accomplished the difficult task of providing fresh and beautiful
                    perspectives on a well-known subject that is normally treated in very predictable and conventional
                    ways.
            The design of the book, created by Glenda Wright King, greatly enhances the overall effect, as does
                    the quality of the reproductions and the paper stock used. Writer and photographer are well matched
                    as they reveal new facets of familiar places and of places little known, such as Blennerhassett
                    Island, just downriver from Parkersburg, West 
                        Virginia
                    , and Gallipolis (pronounced Galley Police), 
                        Ohio
                    .
            Pearce and Nugent have produced a book that, like the 
                        Ohio
                     River itself, invites one to linger and to return.
            ALLEN J. SHARE, a specialist in the fields of American social, urban, and cultural history,
                    teaches history at the University of 
                        Louisville
                     and at Bellarmine College, 
                  Louisville,
                            Kentucky
               . He is the author of Cities in the Commonwealth: Two Centuries of Urban Life in 
                            Kentucky
                        
                (1982).
         
         
            
               Brotherly Tomorrows: Movements for a Cooperative Society in America,
                        1820–1920. By Edward K. Spann. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 1989. Pp. xv, 354. Notes, bibliography, index. $39.50.)
            Edward K. Spann traces the story of the cooperationist effort in America from the time of Robert
                    Owen's experiment in southern Indiana to the rise and fall of Debsian socialism in the era
                    of World War I. He focuses upon the secular side of the account, although from time to time he
                    contrasts it with expressions of religious com-munitarianism, including groups such as the
                    Harmonists and the  Shakers. Elements of this tradition of
                    "radical social idealism" (p. xiii) will be familiar to those acquainted with
                    utopian themes in American social and cultural history-
                        New Harmony
                    , Brook Farm, Fourierism, the North American Phalanx, Henry George's Progress and Poverty, Edward Bellamy's Looking
                    Backward, the Industrial Workers of the World, and New Llano. These and a host of other
                    particular expressions of the hope for a better tomorrow through cooperation occupy Spann's
                    attention.
            But this volume is more than a catalog of those committed to the cooperative ideal. It is rather a
                    detailed genetic history linking the various manifestations of associationism, showing what they
                    shared and where they differed. Spann, for example, describes the various appropriations made of the
                    social ideas of the Frenchman Charles Fourier, including his doctrine of Passional Attraction that
                    called for acceptance of the passions as dynamic forces for good. Fourier's views went
                    through modifications at the hands of his American disciples who adapted the structures of the
                    phalanx and combined his ideas with their own notions about the future.
            Spann does not write as a totally disinterested historian. On the contrary, he is explicit about the
                    hope that his story will contribute "toward reinvigorating the stagnated social
                    imaginations of Americans" (p. xv) who today face the task of dealing with a troubled
                    world. He expresses his own faith in the cooperative vision. Without such ideals future prospects
                    seem dim to him. "Indeed," he writes, "in a world where calculation and
                    force outrun social imagination, it is possible that without some cooperative ideal, there may be no
                    tomorrow at all" (p. 282).
            Several observations are in order. Spann's choice of the title "Brotherly Tomorrows" is strangely insensitive to the fact that these
                    cooperative experiments included many women as well as men. His sharp division between religious and
                    secular groups seems strained at times. The Progressive Shakers of the late nineteenth century, for
                    example, were motivated by both religious and secular ideals. On the other hand, Spann makes a very
                    persuasive case why Americans were not attracted to Marxist socialism but rather chose other forms
                    of cooperation.
            STEPHEN J. STEIN, professor and chair of the Department of Religious Studies, Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , has just finished a volume entitled The Shaker Experience in America: A
                        History of the United Society of Believers (1992).
         
         
            
               Snowbelt Cities: Metropolitan Politics in the Northeast and Midwest since World War
                        II. Edited by Richard M. Bernard. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1990. Pp. ix, 275. Map, tables, notes, appendix.
                    $35.00.)
            
               Snowbelt Cities follows a format that Richard M. Bernard first used in Sunbelt Cities: Politics and Growth since World War II (1983). It includes an introduction
                    on "Snowbelt Politics" by the editor and individual city essays by historians who
                    are familiar with a group of twelve large cities north of the Potomac and 
                        Ohio
                    
                     and east of the 
                        Missouri
                    . The essay that might be expected on 
                        Minneapolis
                     and 
                        St. Paul
                     is missing, and the author draws the size line just below 
                        Indianapolis
                    , with a metropolitan region population of 1.2 million, thus omitting Buffalo (1.18
                    million), 
                        Providence
                     (1.1), and 
                        Hartford
                     (1.04) as well as the region's very large number of cities with populations
                    between 100,000 and 1 million.
            
               Snowbelt Cities is more coherent than many collections of essays by diverse hands.
                    Bernard's introduction describes a protocol that most contributors clearly agreed to follow
                    emphasizing rough measures of population growth and decline and the participation of a set of large,
                    loosely defined groups ("business," blacks, Hispanics, ethnics,
                    "yuppies") in mayoral politics. Each city essay provides a narrative history of
                    mayoral politics during the postwar period focusing on the effectiveness of municipal officials and
                    policies in coping with the challenge of economic and racial change. Bernard concludes that
                    "apart from the neighborhood protectionists, these groups generally agreed on the
                    growth-oriented policies long advocated by business" (p. 19). Snowbelt cities differed from
                    their sunbelt counterparts, he suggests, not in their aims but in the greater "relative
                    power" of their "nonbusiness groups."
            Collectively, the individual city essays provide a wealth of detailed information about postwar
                    municipal politics. Most of the authors do an excellent job within the fifteen to thirty pages they
                    are allowed (
                        New York
                     is simply too large and complex for this format). Mark Gelfand's essay on 
                        Boston
                     is particularly successful in covering a story of intense conflict over mayoral
                    nominations, economic policy, and race relations. The essays on three cities where Bernard judges
                    "business interests" to be "clearly in control" (p. 19) are
                    among the most coherent, perhaps because they have simpler stories to tell; these include Zane L.
                    Miller and Bruce Tucker's essay on 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Michael P. Weber's on 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , and Robert G. Barrows's on 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            
               Snowbelt Cities leaves much to be done. It is not based on a sophisticated economic
                    analysis. It largely ignores the federal, state, and county policies that have shaped the economic
                    and social fates of individual cities. The essays on individual cities (with the notable exception
                    of Barrows's on 
                        Indianapolis
                    ) pay far too little attention to metropolitan politics and treat the
                    central cities as far more autonomous than they are. But this is a book that will be widely useful
                    to historians of the Midwest and of economic development as well as to students of these cities and
                    of cities in general.
            DAVID C. HAMMACK is professor of history and director of the Social Policy History Ph.D. program
                    at Case Western Reserve University, 
                  Cleveland,
                            Ohio
               . He is the author of Power and Society: Greater 
                            New York
                         at the Turn of the Century (1982) and of "Community Foundations: The
                    Delicate Question of Purpose," in Richard Magat, ed., An Agile Servant:
                        Community Leadership by Community Foundations (1989).
         
         
         
            
               Making a New Deal: Industrial Workers in 
                            Chicago
                        , 1919–1939. By Lizabeth Cohen. (
                  Cambridge, England
               : 
                        Cambridge
                     University Press, 1990. Pp. xviii, 526. Illustrations, tables, maps, notes, index.
                    $27.95.)
            
               Making a New Deal is an important book that makes a major contribution to labor and
                    modern American history. Its principal achievement is its richly detailed and persuasive
                    presentation of working people as actors rather than as mere reactors or victims. By endowing 
                        Chicago
                    's workers with agency, Lizabeth Cohen effectively challenges scholars who have
                    studied the 1920s and 1930s from the top down or the outside in and who have attributed the events
                    of those two crucial and turbulent decades to everyone and everything except working people
                    themselves.
            One of the few social histories of workers in the twentieth century, Making a New
                    Deal examines aspects of working-class life in the 1920s and 1930s heretofore largely ignored.
                    The book has new and important things to say about class relations within ethnic communities, the
                    relationship of working people to mass culture, and workers' response to welfare
                    capitalism. It also uses social history to reassess the emergence of mass production unionism in the
                    1930s. Arguing that workers advocated a form of political economy that she labels "moral
                    capitalism," Cohen offers a fresh examination of their relationship to politics and the
                    state. In so doing she reminds readers of the importance of the New Deal to the working class,
                    challenges the corporate liberal thesis for the origins and character of the New Deal, and compels
                    consideration of the distinctiveness of working-class politics in the 1930s. Cohen moves beyond
                    conventional, workplace-oriented accounts to offer a social history of the union drives of the
                    Congress of Industrial Organizations. Describing the CIO's efforts to construct and defend
                    a culture of unity, Cohen establishes, for example, the importance of radio broadcasts, baseball and
                    bowling leagues, union buttons, and women's auxiliaries, aspects of the 1930s that have
                    been overlooked, dismissed, or trivialized. By resisting the tendency to view the events of the
                    1930s in light of what happened after 1940 and by placing those events in historical and social
                    context, Cohen effectively renders the CIO a social movement and demonstrates how important the CIO
                    was to working people themselves.
            The book is not without problems. The meanings of gender at work and their significance for the CIO
                    and the working class merited greater consideration. Cohen is not blind to the problem of gender.
                    Indeed the integration of women and women's experience into the narrative and the analysis
                    is one of the contributions she makes to the literature on labor in the 1920s and 1930s. But gender
                    was more problematic, more significant, and more central than 
                    Making a New Deal would suggest. Cohen, for example, overlooks the ways in which
                    the concept of moral capitalism was gendered and the extent to which the CIO's endorsement
                    of conventional gender ideology undermined the ability of all workers-male and female-to challenge
                    employers. By paying the subject insufficient attention, Cohen misses an opportunity to strengthen
                    the book's larger argument. This weakness, however, does not seriously detract from the
                    book's great merit. Extensively researched, provocatively and compellingly argued, Making a New Deal is an impressive achievement.
            NANCY GABIN is associate professor of history, Purdue University, West 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana. Her work includes Feminism in the Labor Movement: Women and the
                        United Auto Workers, 1935–1975 (1990).
         
         
            
               Capital on the 
                            Kentucky
                        : A Two Hundred Year History of 
                            Frankfort
                         & 
                            Franklin County
                        
               . By Carl E. Kramer. (
                        Frankfort
                    , Ky.: Historic 
                        Frankfort
                    , Inc., 1986. Pp. [viii], 414. Illustrations, maps, index. $29.95, plus
                    $2.00 shipping.)
            Carl E. Kramer's Capital on the 
                            Kentucky
                        : A Two Hundred Year History of 
                            Frankfort
                         & 
                            Franklin County
                        
                is an excellent book. It joins a growing list of community and county
                    histories written by professional historians and intended for a general audience. Kramer's
                    up-to-date knowledge of the history and the historiography of 
                        Kentucky
                     and the 
                        United States
                     shows on every page. In fact his book could easily serve as a primer on 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        United States
                     history for he artfully weaves the history of 
                        Franklin County
                     into great events of the Bluegrass state such as the Tollgate Wars of the 1890s and the
                    mileposts of 
                        United States
                     history such as the Civil War, the industrial revolution, and the Great Depression. Capital on the 
                            Kentucky
                        
                is well written and beautifully produced with numerous black-and-white and
                    color photographs and illustrations. Kramer offers no over-arching thesis, and he breaks no new
                    ground; but there are several reasons why historians and lay persons will want to read this book.
                    First, while Kramer does not equate community development with "progress," he
                    points out that community success in the 
                        United States
                     is now and always has been economic success. Second, Kramer argues convincingly that
                    the key to economic success has never been a mystery. It was and is a function of available natural
                    resources, transportation, capital, and imaginative leadership. 
                        Franklin County
                     possessed all of these, and it flourished. Also, it did not hurt that 
                        Frankfort
                     was the state capital.
            Some town and county histories are little more than tributes to great families and records of
                    entrepreneurial activity. Leading families and entrepreneurs can be found in Capital on
                        the 
                            Kentucky
                        
               , but, when defining "leadership," Kramer emphasizes neither
                         particular families nor particular individuals. Rather, he
                    argues perceptively that community building in 
                        Franklin County
                     and in the 
                        United States
                     was usually a cooperative affair involving local leaders and federal, state, and local
                    government.
            
               Capital on the 
                            Kentucky
                        
                is a thoughtful and thought-provoking book. Kramer reminds readers that, if 
                        Franklin County
                    's experience was typical, community building always meant having something to
                    sell, someone to sell it to, and some way to get it there. It is a point to ponder as Americans
                    drive made-somewhere-else automobiles over deteriorating roads while wondering whatever happened to
                    the railroads.
            PAUL R. LUCAS is professor of history, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    .
         
         
            
               The New American History. Edited by Eric Foner, for the American Historical
                    Association. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : Temple University Press, 1990. Pp. xi, 292. Bibliographies, notes. Clothbound,
                    $39.95; paperbound, $16.95.)
            This useful collection draws together thirteen essays by noted professional historians who were
                    originally commissioned by the American Historical Association to acquaint high school teachers
                    "with the most up-to-date historical scholarship" (p. vii). The essays-seven on
                    conventional chronological periods and six on such "themes" as labor, women, and
                    diplomacy-vary in quality, but they present a sensible accounting of major interpretive issues and a
                    helpful guide to significant recent books and articles. Accordingly, The New American
                        History will be of interest to teachers, graduate students, and anyone curious about where
                    the study of American history has been and where it may-or may not-be going.
            Understandably, the volume exudes a strong sense of satisfaction. As the editor, Eric Foner, and the
                    other contributors make plain, American historians have achieved a great deal over the last
                    generation. They have shattered an older progressive view of national history centered on politics
                    and powerful white men; they have broadened the definition of history by insisting on the centrality
                    of such less-powerful people as workers, immigrants, women, Native Americans, and African Americans;
                    and they have enriched the practice of history by using demography, statistics, and social
                    scientific theory. In recounting these achievements the book also reveals the tricky balancing act
                    crucial to contemporary historiography: the simultaneous contentions that America has seen
                    inequality and oppression but that ordinary Americans have nonetheless made their own lives with
                    creativity and dignity.
            There are one or two clouds on the horizon of The New American History. Despite the
                    emphasis on the breadth of modern historical  writing, there are
                    no essays here on economic, cultural, or intellectual history. There is mostly silence about the
                    rise of corporate business and the power of American nationalism. The editor and some of the
                    essayists are uncomfortably aware that the new history has not produced a new synthesis. There are a
                    couple of gestures toward such a synthesis here: Sean Wilentz suggests the importance of the
                    "market revolution" for antebellum America; Foner proposes "the
                    centrality of slavery to the course of nineteenth-century American history" (p. 78). But
                    this book's strength is the summary of fragmented literatures, not new interpretation. For
                    all its virtues, The New American History leaves the reader with an uneasy
                    feeling. The authors, all fine historians, rightly will not accept a progressive interpretation of
                    American history, in which things are inevitably getting better. But, ironically, they have
                    contributed to a progressive view of American historiography, in which the "new"
                    historians have necessarily surpassed the work of the old. Twenty years from now it will be
                    interesting to see what the authors of The New, New American History make of the
                    scholarship so effectively summed up in this helpful book.
            MICHAEL MCGERR is associate professor of history, Indiana University, Blooming-ton. He is
                    presently writing The Gospel of Wealth: The 
                            United States
                        , 1900–1933, a volume in The 
                            Oxford
                         History of the Untied States, edited by C. Vann Woodward.
         
         
            
               Atlas of American Indian Affairs. By Francis Paul Prucha. (Lincoln: University
                    of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1990. Pp. [x], 191. Maps, tables, notes and references, index.
                    $47.50.)
            Francis Paul Prucha's Atlas of American Indian Affairs is a grand slam in
                    the arena of reference works. Hours of fascination await curious students, while researchers will
                    find the atlas invaluable for corroborating data.
            The atlas is unique. Statistical data are presented through a series of 109 excellent maps that
                    visually and spatially depict 
                        United States
                     Indian policy. Succinct introductions, along with detailed explanatory notes and
                    references, provide the only orientation to the wealth of information in the maps. Contents include
                    culture and tribal areas, Native American populations (including Alaska), land cessions,
                    reservations, government schools and hospitals, 
                        United States
                     military posts, Indian Territory (
                        Oklahoma
                    ), and special interest historic events. A series of maps about the history of
                    post-Civil War Indian wars by cartographer Rafael D. Palacios strengthens the collection.
            The atlas should sustain research interest and encourage further investigations. For example, Indiana
                    historians, in tracing the shifts of Native American populations in the state and region, will
                    observe remarkable growth from 125 in 1920 to 7,682 in 1980. 
                    Why? Investigate further. The maps are meant to stimulate readers to question and to seek more
                    information.
            Although this reference tool will delight experts and specialists in Native American history, others
                    may find it overwhelming, especially when they attempt to interpret those maps dealing with census
                    enumeration of American Indians. At times, the data markers obscure and confuse. The notes and
                    references on populations must be used along with the maps. Despite such minor problems, anyone
                    interested in Native American poeple will not be disappointed with Prucha's Atlas. It is a valuable compendium of information and will prove an excellent, useful
                    addition to private and public libraries.
            KENNETH MCINTOSH, a Creek descendant, is a Ph.D. candidate at 
                        Texas
                     Christian University, Fort Worth, 
                        Texas
                    . He currently resides in Tulsa, 
                        Oklahoma
                    , where he is completing a study of Creeks and twentieth-century Indian political
                    activism.
         
         
            
               The European Journals of Williiam Maclure. Edited by John S. Doskey. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : American Philosophical Society, 1988. Pp. xlix, 815. Illustrations, notes, maps,
                    appendixes, index. $40.00.)
            William Maclure made one of the first geological surveys in North America, crossing large tracts of
                    the eastern 
                        United States
                     to produce both commentary and geological map in 1809. This work and several papers
                    influenced a generation of American geologists. Maclure was also a pioneer in attempts at
                    educational reform in the 
                        United States
                    . The editor of Maclure's journals notes in the preface that "few
                    glimpses of Maclure's impact upon the development of American science have been seen up to
                    the present" (p. xv) and that still fewer are available about his work in educational
                    reform. The publication of his journals should stimulate renewed interest in Maclure and provide
                    much needed insight into the development of his ideas, particularly in geology.
            Between 1805 and 1815 and again from 1820 to 1825 Maclure traveled extensively in Europe. Throughout
                    his travels he made careful notes about local geology while he collected rocks for schools and
                    scientific institutions in the 
                        United States
                    . His journals provide the opportunity to study the extent and detail of his
                    observations and their relationship to ideas expressed in his papers. Carefully transcribed with
                    attention to "translating" abbreviations and cryptic comments into smooth and
                    readable text, the journals give vivid impressions of the countryside, the people, the social
                    structure, the education, and the politics of many of the places Maclure visited, as well as the
                    geology. Extensive annotations give the reader a clear understanding of what Maclure saw and
                    experienced. Twenty-six appendixes include materials ranging from brief notes found at the beginning
                    or end of some of the journals  to expense accounts, lists of
                    rocks, a long essay on banks and banking, and an essay on geology written in 1805 and found at the
                    end of the second journal. The latter is especially interesting because of the relationship it bears
                    to Maclure's famous "Essay on formation of rocks" (1818).
            Maps, diagrams, and sketches found in the journals are reproduced, and new maps show the route of
                    Maclure's travels. A lengthy introduction provides an excellent biographical sketch of
                    Maclure. A handsome photograph, in color, of a portrait of Maclure in the Workingmen's
                    Institute Library at 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, of which Maclure was a founder, is the frontispiece.
            PATSY GERSTNER is chief curator of the Historical Division of the 
                  Cleveland, Ohio
               , Health Sciences Library. She is just completing a biography of the
                    American geologist, Henry Darwin Rogers (1808–1866) and is working on a pictorial history
                    of the Battle Creek, 
                        Michigan
                    , Sanitarium.
         
         
            
               Canals For a Nation: The Canal Era in the 
                            United States
                        , 1790–1860. By Ronald E. Shaw. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1990. Pp. x, 284. Maps, illustrations, notes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $28.00.)
            Ronald E. Shaw has produced a handsome and useful survey of the canal era in the 
                        United States
                    . Surprisingly, there has been no such general study since Alvin Harlow's 1926
                        Old Towpaths. Shaw's new book nicely synthesizes two generations of
                    scholarship on American canals and the economic impact of these waterways in a treatment that
                    combines descriptive narrative with historiographical review. Historians will find this work the
                    most convenient source for important canal particulars and a ready reference, via the notes, to the
                    monographic literature; general readers will find a pleasant survey of the facts with just enough
                    interpretive shaping to give the volume coherence.
            After a brief look at "Pioneer Canals and Republican Improvements," Shaw, in his
                    next four chapters, tours the country geographically, noting the most important regional projects as
                    well as many lesser ditches (and some that just plain failed). (Indiana readers will find their
                    familiar internal improvement story embedded in its regional context.) Details such as the names of
                    promoters and engineers, dates of incorporation, sums of money expended, volumes of traffic, and
                    sizes of canals, locks, and typical boats lend specific integrity to these quick descriptions.
            Some of the best reading in this volume comes in chapter six, where Shaw discusses the problems of
                    engineering, technological innovation, labor, and working conditions that were common to all canals.
                    The social history context of the construction and operation of these waterways comes into focus
                    briefly, as do selections from contemporary travel narratives. Chapter seven takes a similarly  comprehensive view of politics and economic impact, although
                    these difficult questions resist synthesis more stubbornly.
            Throughout this volume the importance of the canal era in American development is reaffirmed, if not
                    aggressively argued. Readers who doubt this premise will likely not be persuaded, but scholars
                    inclined to agree with Shaw's assessment will appreciate the convenient package he has
                    assembled. Ironically, these "canals for a nation" were not built for a nation.
                    Even projects receiving federal support served primarily local competitive interests, and their
                    integration into networks was inadvertent at best. This raises tough analytical questions that Shaw
                    recognizes but does not resolve. Scholars will find much here on which to build.
            JOHN LAURITZ LARSON is associate professor of history, Purdue University, West 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana. He is currently writing a book about national internal improvement in the
                    early American republic.
         
         
            
               American Historical Pageantry: The Uses of Tradition in the Early Twentieth
                    Century. By David Glassberg. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1990. Pp. xvii, 381. Illustrations, notes, note on sources, index. Clothbound,
                    $45.00; paperbound, $14.95.)
            Glancing at David Glassberg's near 300-page account of American historical pageantry during
                    the Progressive era, this reviewer initially reacted, "Surely the author has told us more
                    about historical pageants than we want to know!" Initial skepticism quickly fades, however,
                    as Glassberg unfolds yet another interesting variation on the seemingly never-ending story of how
                    individuals find ways to make use of their own past.
            Gracefully interweaving local historical pageantry into the broader context of American history,
                    Glassberg makes a major contribution by demonstrating how various groups and organizations used the
                    pageant to further their own cause. Whether patriotic boosters looking for community identity,
                    progressive educators who hoped to expose the masses to a bit of history, or entrepreneurs spotting
                    the value of commercial entertainment, they all jumped on the pageantry bandwagon during the early
                    years of the twentieth century. The movement reached its zenith just before World War I, culminating
                    in the creation of the American Pageant Association in 1913.
            Tracing the rise of the movement from America's enthusiastic interest in local history in
                    the late nineteenth century-state and local historical societies more than doubled between 1870 and
                    1890 (pp. 13–14)-the author describes how the pageant became a democratizing tool for the
                    moral reformers of the Progressive era who hoped to use it to combine mass recreation and patriotic
                    education. Though the pageantry movement was influenced by the British  arts and crafts movement (which itself had borrowed heavily from
                    aristocratic medieval and renaissance motifs), Glassberg emphasizes how it quickly developed
                    uniquely American historical themes, which were often a mirror image of the public imagination. Much
                    of the focus is on patriotic and hereditary societies, educators, and social workers of the
                    playground movement, all of whom "considered this new form of civic holiday celebration
                    peculiarly suited to advance their goals in public" (p. 52).
            Although the reader sometimes founders in a sea of local detail, Glassberg prevents total submersion
                    by ultimately connecting the story to broader historical themes. Even class, race, and gender wend
                    their way into his story. A women's suffrage pageant in 
                        Washington
                    , D. C., in 1913, for example, "depicted women in the professions as well as in
                    domestic work" (p. 136), while W. E. B. Du Bois wrote and directed his own black history
                    pageant in the same year. For the most part, however, blacks, as well as Native Americans, were
                    presented in stereotypical roles-blacks as comic buffoons, Indians attacking helpless whites.
            Twentieth century American historians-especially those with an interest in the Progressive
                    period-will find this book rewarding reading.
            LOUIS CANTOR, Department of History, Indiana University-Purdue University Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , has just completed a history of the country's first all-black radio station
                    entitled Wheelin' on Beale (1992).
         
         
            
               Galloping Bungalows: The Rise and Demise of the American House Trailer. By David
                    A. Thornburg. (Hamden, Conn: Archon Books, 1991. Pp. 197. Illustrations, selected bibliography,
                    index. $25.00.)
            
               Galloping Bungalows focuses on an American subculture of year-round trailer
                    residents that flourished from the midthirties to about 1960. The book's main interest is
                    the "true" trailerite, defined by David A. Thornburg as someone who had no other
                    residence but the trailer, had willingly chosen a nomadic lifestyle, and moved regularly from place
                    to place. Americans too poor to afford any other form of housing, as well as the many forced into
                    trailers during World War II because of a lack of housing, are not included in his definition, for
                    it was not wanderlust but a more basic need that forced them to take up trailer residence. Allen
                    Wallis's recent Wheel Estate: The Rise and Decline of Mobile Homes (1991)
                    emphasizes the history of the trailer or mobile home as a flexible, low-cost alternative to
                    conventional housing.
            Thornburg narrows his story to what is actually his own story, for he was the only child of 
                        Ohio
                     natives who lived and moved about in house trailers from 1940 to 1955. He describes his
                    parents as archetypal trailerites who were never "entirely comfortable in 
                    
                  TRAILERITES AT HOME Courtesy Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.
                the 1930s middle-class mold" (p. 58). Thornburg identifies the first generation
                    of trailerites as married, middle-income, midwestern city dwellers (with rural roots), who were
                    above average in education with one or no children (many trailerites were retirees), a precise
                    description of his parents. Although Thornburg describes the trailerites as unconventional
                    progressives, leading an alternative lifestyle, the very homogeneity of the group and the insularity
                    of the trailer park suggest that perhaps the trailerites were fleeing, rather than flaunting, the
                    new American order, that they were attempting to escape the urban mix of blacks, Jews, and
                    immigrants, as well as increasing governmental influence and regulation, in favor of a cozy
                    community of like-minded rural Protestant midwesterners. Thornburg cannot make up his mind on this
                    point, for he argues both sides in his description of the trailerite population. Although
                    trailerites were found in greatest numbers in warm climates, this is a midwestern story. Small
                    companies dotted the midwestern landscape, with the greatest concentration of house trailer
                    manufacturers located around 
                        Detroit
                    .
            
            The book's organization is maddeningly circuitous, often wandering-like the trailerite-and
                    repetitive. Thornburg ends his story in 1960 with the lifting of the eight-foot wide limit for house
                    trailers, which he argues led to the sedentary behemoths we call mobile homes and the end of the
                    trailerite community, but that does not seem a satisfactory explanation for the death of the
                    trailerite lifestyle.
            JUDITH E. ENDELMAN is Benson and Edith Ford curator of special collections and head of the
                    Research Center of Henry Ford Museum & 
                        Greenfield
                     Village in 
                  Dearborn, Michigan
               . She was co-curator of the museum's recent
                    exhibit, "Americans on Vacation."
         
         
            
               That Old Time Rock & Roll: A Chronicle of an Era, 1954–1963.
                    By Richard Aquila. (
                        New York
                    : Schirmer Books, 1989. Pp. xii, 370. Illustrations, notes, bibliography. Paperbound,
                    $22.50.)
            Richard Aquila has drawn on his knowledge and obvious love of rock and roll to compile this
                    interesting guide to the music during its early period. Following a few (too) short introductory
                    chapters, the bulk of the book is devoted to charts, lists, and biographical information. First,
                    various highlights from 1954 to 1963 present a backdrop to the music. Next, there are forty-nine
                    topical lists of songs as well as their dates and performers, ranging from various rock and roll
                    styles, such as country rock and folk music, to songs about youth, parties, school, cars, teenage
                    slang, sex and morality, surfing, food, teenage rebellion, religion, gender, ethnic and racial
                    stereotypes, alcohol, history, the cold war, to name just a few. List #49 includes the greatest hits
                    from each of the years covered. The last half of the book includes short discussions of both
                    significant and obscure performers and groups, focusing on their most important records. Starting
                    with Billy Abbott & the Jewels and ending with John Zacherle ("The Cool
                    Ghoul"), the list appears quite comprehensive, with longer sections on Elvis Presley and a
                    few of the other giants. Most of the very short descriptions attempt to explain the importance of
                    each performer, which is not always easy.
            There are, of course, numerous other guides to and lists of rock and roll records and performers.
                    Many are rather bulky. Aquila has presented a rather comprehensive study that is manageable. A few
                    problems exist. The absence of a real definition of rock and roll leads to the inclusion of
                    individuals and records that are perhaps on the fringe. There is also little attempt to adhere to
                    the chronological guidelines. While the author emphasizes that the music seemingly reflects the
                    concerns of youth at the time, he does not discuss the role of the record companies and other
                    aspects of the record business, including the radio stations and disc jockeys, concert  promoters, and many others, which created as well as fed the market for
                    such music. Particularly important was the relationship between the major and independent record
                    companies, reflecting the blacky white dichotomy that pervaded the industry. Aquila has thus
                    compiled a book more important for its information and curiosities than its interpretations.
            RONALD D. COHEN is professor of history, Indiana University Northwest, Gary. He has published
                    widely in the history of education, particularly the history of schooling in Gary, Indiana. He is
                    currently writing a history of folk music in the 
                        United States
                     from 1945 to 1970.
         
         
            
               Local Businesses: Exploring Their History. By K. Austin Kerr, Amos J. Loveday,
                    and Mansel G. Blackford. (
                        Nashville
                    , Tenn.: American Association for State and Local History, 1990. Pp. xiv, 128.
                    Illustrations, bibliographies, index. Paper-bound, $14.95.)
            
               Local Businesses: Exploring Their History is the latest volume in the Nearby History series published by the American Association of State and Local History and
                    designed to enable historians to record the life and events of their locales. This particular study
                    is the most useful guide yet available for any historian who aspires to publish a valid, effective
                    history of either a business firm, an entrepreneur, or the commercial life of a community.
                    Unfortunately, many business histories are written by one of three types of authors: the inspired
                    amateur who lacks the research and writing skills necessary to compile a useful history; the public
                    relations-oriented corporate insider who paints too glowing a picture of the company; and, one must
                    admit, the academic historian whose tone and writing style often make the business history
                    unintelligible to the general reader.
            Throughout their book K. Austin Kerr, Amos J. Loveday, and Mansel G. 
                        Blackford
                     show the historian how to make business history both valid and interesting. They
                    explain how to look for research materials from a variety of sources, how to work with corporate
                    officers, and how to present and publish the history. Above all, they exhort the historian to view
                    the history of a business in its larger context, using the explanation of concentric circles to show
                    how the elements of a business's history affect not only the firm but also the community,
                    its families, and its other social and political institutions.
            
               Local Businesses: Exploring Their History should become a permanent addition to the
                    library of every business historian. The authors write in an engaging, helpful style; they obviously
                    hope to reach the nonacademic historian as well as the history teacher. Indiana readers will find
                    the book's emphasis on the histories of small and medium-sized business especially valuable
                    since much of  the Hoosier state's commercial activity
                    has historically involved these sorts of enterprises.
            BRUCE GEELHOED, acting director of the Center for 
                        Middletown
                     Studies, Ball State University, 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, is the author of several business histories including Indiana's Investment Banker: The Story of City Securities Corporation
                (1985).
         
         
            In William E. Bartelt, "The Land Dealings of 
                        Spencer County
                    , Indiana, Pioneer Thomas Lincoln," Indiana Magazine of
                    History, LXXXVII (September, 1991), 219, the caption for the illustration should have read:
            DOCUMENT BY WHICH THOMAS LINCOLN RELINQUISHED EIGHTY ACRES OF HIS SPENCER COUNTY PROPERTY AND EIGHTY
                    ACRES OF HIS POSEY COUNTY LAND TO COMPLETE PAYMENT ON THE REMAINING EIGHTY ACRES IN SPENCER COUNTY,
                    INDIANA
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               My Rear View: (Memories of My Childhood). By Dorothy Dugdale. (N.p.: the author,
                    1989. Pp. 106. Illustrations, appendix. Paperbound, $13.95, plus $2.00 postage
                    and handling. Order from Dorothy Dugdale, 510 S. Rose Avenue, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana 47401.) Dorothy Dugdale joins a long and growing list of Hoosiers who have had
                    the gumption to write and publish their memories of childhood. Her tales of life in Woodruff Place, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in the early twentieth century focus on the Dugdale family and neighbors and on
                    everyday events of a time long ago. Enhanced by wonderful illustrations, this reminiscence is an
                    instructive and delightful window into the past. James H. 
                            Madison
                        , Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               SKETCH OF DOROTHY DUGDALE BY HER OLDER SISTER CONSTANCE
            
            
               Between Log Creek and Jockey. By Don Scales. (
                        New York
                    : Vantage Press, 1991. Pp. ix, 330. $16.95, plus $1.50 postage and
                    handling.) Don Scales's memories of his rural childhood in 
                        Warrick
                     County between 1928 and 1931 will be of considerable interest to many readers. His
                    well-written account ranges from the joys of fried chicken, hog butchering, and a shivaree to a
                    one-room school with no electricity or running water. The rural, isolated life he recalls is perhaps
                    closer to that of Abe Lincoln's southern Indiana than of the late twentieth century. James H. 
                            Madison
                        , Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               Two Years behind the Mast: An American Landlubber at Sea in World War II. By Harold
                    J. McCormick. (Manhattan, Kans.: Sunflower University Press, 1991. Pp. xii, 147. Illustrations,
                    bibliography, index. Paperbound, $16.00. Order from Sunflower University Press, 1531
                    Yuma, Box 1009, Manhattan, 
                        Kansas
                     66502.) World War II pushed Harold J. McCormick away from his Fort 
                        Wayne
                     job and golf game and forced him to see the world, over 250,000 miles of it at sea.
                    McCormick`s memoir provides fascinating details of life on ship and ashore, including a
                    "Dear John" letter he received thousands of miles from home. The most exciting  portions of the narrative recount the sinking of the
                    author's Liberty ship by a German U-boat off the coast of 
                        Brazil
                     in 1944. Decades later, McCormick's extensive research took him to the
                    National Archives and even to a warm friendship with the U-boat commander who sank his ship. This is
                    a well-told story that brings to life many facets of the World War II experience. James
                        H. 
                            Madison
                        , Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               The Prehistoric and Early Historic Archaeology of Wyandotte Cave and Other Caves in
                        Southern Indiana. By Patrick J. Munson and Cheryl Ann Munson. Prehistory
                        Research Series, Volume VII, Number 1. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1990. Pp. vii, 101. Maps, illustrations, figures, tables,
                    appendixes, bibliography. Paperbound, $8.00.) Hickory bark torch fragments and evidence
                    of mining activity indicate some of the many ways in which Wyandotte Cave served human needs in
                    prehistoric and historic times. Patrick J. Munson and Cheryl Ann Munson focused their archaeological
                    investigation on this well-known cave in 
                        Crawford County
                     but added also some interesting information on five other caves in southern Indiana.
                        James H. 
                            Madison
                        , Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               Allison: Power of Excellence, 1915–1990. By Paul Sonneburg and William
                    A. Schoenberger. (Malibu, Calif.: Coastline Publishers, 1990. Pp. 215. Illustrations, indexes.) This
                    richly illustrated overview of Allison's history begins with James Allison's
                    founding of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     company in 1915. Highlights include the General Motors Acquisition in 1929, the V1710
                    engine that played such a large role in World War II, and the postwar diversification and change.
                        James H. 
                            Madison
                        , Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               Literature of the Great Lakes Region: An Annotated Bibliography. By Donald W.
                    Maxwell. (
                        New York
                    : Garland Publishing, Inc., 1991. Pp. xv, 485. Indexes. $62.00.) Drawing his
                    boundaries to include the states of the Old Northwest plus 
                        Minnesota
                    , Donald W. Maxwell lists and briefly annotates over 1,700 books of fiction that reflect
                    something of life in this region. Here is a good place to begin the search for a sense of place in
                    the literature of the Great Lakes region, though a subject index would ease the chore. James H. 
                            Madison
                        , Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
         
         
         
            Recent Articles, Books, Pamphlets, and Dissertations in Indiana History
            
                    Compiled by Leigh Darbee
                
            
               Editor's Note. This list of articles, books, pamphlets, and dissertations
                    published from 1987 to 1991 is intended as a bibliographic contribution to Indiana's
                    history. We hope to present such a list in each March issue of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History. We recognize that the list is neither complete nor systematic in coverage, and we
                    hope that readers will help us by sending items for possible inclusion. We are especially interested
                    in listing publications that make some contribution to understanding Indiana's past but
                    that are not normally reviewed in the IMH. Generally, we will not list newspaper articles or
                    accounts of local historical society activities, but printed pamphlets as well as journal articles
                    may be listed. All such items for the March, 1993, issue must be received by November 1, 1992. Many
                    people have contributed to the present list, but major responsibility has rested with Leigh Darbee
                    of the Indiana Historical Society.
            
               
                  African American Soldiers from Indiana with the Union Army in the Civil War,
                            1863–1865 (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana African American Historical & Genealogical Society, 1989). Order
                        from: Indiana AAHGS, 502 Clover Terr., 
                            Bloomington
                        , IN 47404.
               "All Saints Cathedral [
                            Indianapolis
                        ]," 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Postcard Club, XVII (April, 1991).
               Allsop, Larry, "Powell Crosley Jr.: A Real Hoosier Inventor Extraordinaire,"
                            Outdoor Indiana, LV (December, 1990-January, 1991).
               Bailey, Gary L., "Losing Ground: Workers and Community in 
                            Terre Haute
                        , Indiana, 1875–1935" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University,
                        1989).
               Ballenger, Nathan Hunt, "Cholera, Camp Meetings and Indians: An Account of Early 
                            Knightstown
                        ," 
                            Henry County
                        
                        Historicatalog, XIX (Spring, 1991). [Reprint of 1889 newspaper article.]
               Barnes, Hope, and Frances Petty Sargent, Stone on Stone (
                            Muncie
                        : Ball State University, 1991). [Biography of Margaret Ball Petty.]
               
               Barnhart, Terry A., "Of Mounds and Men: The Early Anthropological Career of Ephraim
                        George Squier" (Ph.D. dissertation, Miami University (
                            Ohio
                        ), 1989).
               Barrows, Robert G., "
                            Indianapolis
                        : Silver Buckle on the Rust Belt," in Snowbelt Cities:
                            Metropolitan Politics in the Northeast and Midwest since World War II, ed. Richard M.
                        Bernard (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 1990).
               Barrows, Robert G., "‘Our Last Reserves’: Albion Fellows Bacon
                        and Child Welfare Work in Indiana during World War I," Indiana Academy of the Social
                        Sciences Proceedings, XXV (1990).
               Bartelt, William E., "The Land Dealings of 
                            Spencer County
                        , Indiana, Pioneer Thomas Lincoln," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, LXXXVII (September, 1991).
               Basch, Norma, "Relief in the Premises: Divorce as a Woman's Remedy in 
                            New York
                         and Indiana, 1815–1870," Law and History
                        Review, VIII (Spring, 1990).
               Bates, Don M., All-Star Memories: A History of the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                   Star's Indiana-
                                Kentucky
                             High School All-Star Basketball Series, 1939–1989 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : 
                            Indianapolis
                         Newspapers, Inc., 1989). Order from: 
                            Indianapolis
                         Newspapers, Inc., 307 N. Pennsylvania St., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46204.
               Beach, Carolyn Danner, Turn to the River: U. P. Schenck, Swiss Immigrant,
                            Entrepreneur, Shipping Magnate, and Family Man ([s.l.]: Kappa, Kappa, Kappa, Inc.,
                        1987). [Swiss settler in southern Indiana.]
               Beck, Ervin, Joe Wright (1879–1972), 
                                Goshen
                             Folk Hero (
                            Goshen
                        : Pinchpenny Press, 1988). Order from: 
                            Goshen
                         High School, P. O. Box 701, 
                            Goshen
                        , IN 46526.
               Benson, Theodore L., "Planters and Hoosiers: The Development of Sectional Society in
                        Antebellum Indiana and 
                            Mississippi
                        " (Ph.D. dissertation, University of 
                            Virginia
                        , 1990).
               Bigham, Darrel E., "The 
                            Evansville
                         Economy and the Second World War," Traces of Indiana and
                            Midwestern History, III (Fall, 1991).
               
                  Black Pioneers in Indiana, 1830 (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana African American Historical & Genealogical Society, 1990).
                        [Information from 1830 census.] Order from: Indiana AAHGS, 502 Clover Terr., 
                            Bloomington
                        , IN 47404.
               Blake, Christina, "Sacred Heart Celebrates 100," Indiana German Heritage
                        Society Newsletter, VII (Spring, 1991).
               Bodnar, John, "Commemorative Activity in Twentieth-Century 
                            Indianapolis
                        : The Invention of Civic Traditions," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, LXXXVII (March, 1991).
               Boomhower, Ray, "Celebrating Statehood: Indiana's 1916 Centennial,"
                            Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, III (Summer, 1991).
               
               Boomhower, Ray, "Eugene V. Debs, Hoosier Socialist," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, III (Spring, 1991).
               Boomhower, Ray, "The G. I.'s Friend, Ernie Pyle," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, III (Fall, 1991).
               Boomhower, Ray, "Hazelden: The Home of George Ade," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, III (Winter, 1991).
               Brewer, Fredric, "Against All Adversities: The Pioneer Printers of 
                            Brookville
                        , Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVII
                        (December, 1991).
               Brockman, Paul, "
                            Indianapolis
                         Urban League," Black History News & Notes, No.
                        44 (May, 1991).
               Bundles, A'Lelia Perry, Madam C. J. Walker (
                            New York
                        : Chelsea House Publishers, 1991). [A children's book, but the only
                        biography of Madam Walker in print.]
               Bunker, L. Z., "Indian Relics in Northern 
                            Wabash
                         County," North 
                            Manchester
                         Historical Society Newsletter, VII (November, 1990).
               Bunker, L. Z., "The Indians Called It Kenapocomoco," 
                            North Manchester
                         Historical Society Newsletter, VIII (February, 1991). [Article
                        about the Eel River.]
               Calder, J. 
                            Kent
                        , "Floyd D. Hopper: Dean of Indiana Watercolorists," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, III (Winter, 1991).
               Cartwright, Byron J., "A History of the Music Ministry of First Chirstian Church, 
                            Columbus
                        , Indiana" (Ph.D. dissertation, Southern Baptist Theological Seminary,
                        1989).
               Charles, Jeffrey, "Capitalism and Identity in the Heartland," Reviews in American History, XIX (June, 1991).
               Childs-Helton, Sally, "Citizens Forum," Black History News
                            & Notes, No. 43 (February, 1991).
               Cline, Pat, "Brick-Making Was a Family Affair," 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XVI (February, 1991). [Poston Brick Company.]
               Cline, Pat, "Brick-Making Was a Major Industry in County," 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XVI (February, 1991).
               Cline, Pat, "City Council Makes Landmark Decision in 1890," 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XV (December, 1990). [Creation of 
                            Crawfordsville
                         Electric Light & Power Company.]
               Cline, Pat, One Hundred Years of Public Power: 
                                Crawfordsville
                             Electric Light & Power, 1890–1990 (
                            Crawfordsville
                        : Electric Light & Power Company, 1990). Order from: C.E.L.& P.,
                        P.O. Box 428, 
                            Crawfordsville
                        , IN 47933.
               "Community Building in Nineteenth-Century Indiana, 1814–1876: Contrasting
                        Examples" (
                            Evansville
                        : University of Southern Indiana, 1991). [Two volumes of research papers from the
                        1991 summer institute, "Indiana and the New Nation, 1776–1876."]
               Cook, Gayle, and Diana Hawes, 
                     
                                Monroe
                             County in Focus: Portrait of an Indiana County (
                            Bloomington
                        : Discovery Press, 1991).  Order from: Discovery
                        Press, 1329 S. High St., 
                            Bloomington
                        , IN 47401.
               Cottman, Evans W., Oh Little Town of Iruington: Early Twentieth Century Iruington
                            as Seen through the Eyes of a Small Boy, comp. & ed. Larry 
                            Muncie
                         ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ]: 
                            Irvington
                         Historical Society, 1990). Order from: 
                            Irvington
                         Historical Society, 312 S. Downey Ave., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46219.
               "Covered Bridge Census," Indiana Covered Bridge Society Newsletter, XXVIII (April, 1991).
               Cripe, Nicholas M., "The Enigmatic Civil War Career of Hoosier James H.
                        Kinley," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVII (September, 1991).
               Davenport, Don, "Lincoln Sites in Indiana," Traces of Indiana
                            and Midwestern History, III (Summer, 1991).
               Davenport, Don, "‘Pretty Pinching Times’: Lincoln's
                        Hoosier Home, 1816–1830," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, III (Summer, 1991).
               Davis, Ann, "Legacy Endures at [Roberts] Settlement," Indiana
                            Preservationist, No. 3 (May/June, 1991).
               Davis, Marsh, "Corn Cribs: Indiana's Rustic Architecture," Indiana Preservationist, No. 4 (July/August, 1991).
               Davis, Marsh, "German Barns on the Indiana 
                            Prairie
                        ," Indiana Preservationist, No. 3 (May/June, 1991).
               Davis, Marsh, "Indiana Houses Have a Carolina Influence," Indiana Preservationist, No. 5 (September/October, 1991).
               Davis, Marsh, "Teague's Texaco: Gassing Up in Style," Indiana Preservationist, No. 1 (January/February, 1991).
               Diebold, Paul, "Emanuel Church in 
                            Dubois County
                        ," Indiana German Heritage Society Newsletter, VII
                        (Spring, 1991).
               Diebold, Paul, "Puttin’ on the Ritz: Giving Historic Indiana Buildings a
                        Face-Lift," Outdoor Indiana, LVI (February, 1991).
               Dittlinger, Esther W., et al., Anderson: A Pictorial History (
                            St. Louis
                        : G. Bradley Publishing, 1990).
               Dorson, Richard M., "The Folklore of Steel," Steel
                        Shavings, XIX (1990).
               Durham, Walter T., "The Southwest and 
                            Northwest Territories
                        : A Comparison, 1787–1796," 
                     
                                Tennessee
                             Historical Quarterly, XLIX (Fall, 1990).
               Ericsson, Dwight and Ann, eds., The Forks of the 
                                Wabash
                            : An Historical Survey ([
                            Huntington
                        ]: Historic Forks of the 
                            Wabash
                        , [1990]).
               Etcheson, Nicole, "The Southern Influence on Midwestern Political Culture: 
                            Ohio
                        , Indiana, and 
                            Illinois
                         from Frontier to Disunion" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University, 1991).
               "Explore Indiana's Ethnic Heritage This Summer!" Series of articles
                        in Indiana Preservationist, No. 3 (May/June, 1991).
               
               Felkey, Leonard B., Books along the Wildcat: History of the 
                                Kokomo
                            -
                                Howard County
                             Public Library (
                            Kokomo
                        : Friends of the Library, 1990). Order from: Friends of the Library, 220 N. Union, 
                            Kokomo
                        , IN 46901.
               Fischer, Roger A., "‘Blocks of Five’ Dudley, Cartoon
                        Celebrity," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVII (December, 1991).
               Fletcher, Stephen J., "A Longer View: Cirkut Photography in Indiana since
                        1906," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, III (Winter, 1991).
               " ‘For the Duration’: Memories of the Hoosier Home
                        Front," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, III (Fall, 1991).
                        [Reminiscences.]
               Freeouf, Peter Frank, "Religion and Dialect: Catholic and Lutheran Dialects in the
                        German of 
                            Dubois County
                        , Indiana" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University, 1990).
               Gantz, Richard A., "Lanier's Vision of Grandeur on the 
                            Ohio
                         River," Indiana Preservationist, No. 1
                        (January/February, 1991). [Lanier mansion in 
                            Madison
                        .]
               Geib, George W., and Miriam Geib, 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             First (
                            Indianapolis
                        : 
                            Indianapolis
                         Chamber of Commerce, 1990). [History of the Chamber of Commerce.]
               "General German Protestant Orphan Home," 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Postcard Club, XVI (December, 1990).
               George, Angelo I., Bibliography of Wyandotte Cave (
                            Louisville
                        : George Publishing Company, 1991). Order from: George Publishing Co., 1869
                        Trevillian Way, 
                            Louisville
                        , KY 40205.
               George, Angelo I., Wyandotte Cave Down through the Centuries (
                            Louisville
                        : George Publishing Company, 1991). Order from: George Publishing Co., 1869
                        Trevillian Way, 
                            Louisville
                        , KY 40205.
               Gibbs, Wilma, "George P. Stewart and the 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Recorder," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, III (Winter,
                        1991).
               [Gibbs, Wilma], "Indiana African-American History Collections at the I[ndiana]
                        H[istorical] S[ociety]," Black History News & Notes, No. 45
                        (August, 1991).
               [Gibbs, Wilma], "Reference Sources: Indiana and African-American Participation during
                        the Civil War," Black History News & Notes, No. 43 (February,
                        1991).
               Greiff, Glory-June, "Roads, Rocks, and Recreation: The Legacy of the WPA in
                        Indiana," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, III (Summer,
                        1991).
               Groves, Carol, "A River of Memories: Recording Patoka Valley History," Outdoor Indiana, LVI (February, 1991).
               
                  Guide to Historic Sites in Southern Indiana (
                            Evansville
                        : University of Southern Indiana, Historic Southern Indiana Project, 1991).
               
               Guide, William F., "
                            Rushville
                        's African-American Community: An Historic Overview," Black History News & Notes, No. 44 (May, 1991).
               Hamm, Thomas D., "Forgotten Pioneer: Seth Hinshaw, 1787–1865," 
                            Henry County
                        
                        Historicatalog, XVIII (Spring, 1990).
               Hamm, Thomas D., "
                            Henry County
                        's Three Migrations," 
                            Henry County
                        
                        Historicatalog, XVIII (Fall, 1990).
               Hamm, Thomas D., et al., "Moral Choices: Two Indiana 
                            Quaker
                         Communities and the Abolitionist Movement," Indiana Magazine
                            of History, LXXXVII (June, 1991).
               Hanou, John T., "Indiana Round Barn Survey," 
                            Fulton
                         County Historical Society Quarterly, No. 72 (1991).
               Henry, Dean L., 
                     
                                Goshen
                            , Indiana: Having a Wonderful Time-
                                Wish
                             You Were Here! Dean (
                            Goshen
                        : 
                            Goshen
                         Historical Society, 1990). Order from: The society, P. 0. Box 701, 
                            Goshen
                        , IN 46526.
               Hesburgh, Theodore M., with Jerry Reedy, God, Country, Notre Dame: The
                            Autobiography of Theodore M. Hesburgh (
                            New York
                        : Doubleday, 1990).
               Hobbs, Pat, "Iron Bridges Important Part of [
                            Montgomery
                        ] County's History," 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XV (December, 1990).
               Holley, 
                            Val
                        , "H. L. Mencken and the Indiana Genii," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, III (Winter, 1991).
               Homoya, Michael, "Indiana's First Resident Botanist: The Contributions of
                        Dr. Asahel Clapp," Outdoor Indiana, LVI (March, 1991).
               "Hoosier Canals," series of articles in Indiana
                        Preservationist, No. 2 (March/April, 1991).
               "Hoosier Medal of Honor Recipients in World War II," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, III (Fall, 1991).
               Hoover, Dwight W., "Daisy Douglas 
                            Barr
                        : From 
                            Quaker
                         to Klan ‘Kluckeress,’" Indiana Magazine
                            of History, LXXXVII (June, 1991).
               Hoover, Dwight W., "Visions of the Midwest in 
                            Middletown
                        ," The Old Northwest, XL (Fall, 1990).
               Hoy, Suellen, "The Garbage Disposer, the Public Health, and the Good Life,"
                        in Technology and Choice: Readings from Technology and Culture, ed. Marcel C.
                        Lafollette and Jeffrey K. Stine (
                            Chicago
                        : University of 
                            Chicago
                         Press, 1991).
               Ierley, Merritt, Traveling the National Road: Two Centuries on America's
                            First Highway (
                            New York
                        : Overlook Press, 1990).
               "‘In the Hot Pacific Sun’: Hoosiers in the Pacific
                        Theater," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, III (Fall, 1991).
               
                  Index to the Appointments of Methodist Episcopal Ministers in Indiana,
                            1800–1839: The 
                                Kentucky
                            , Western, 
                        Tennessee, Missouri, Ohio
                     , and 
                                Illinois
                             Conferences (
                            Greencastle
                        : DePauw University, Archives and Special Collections, 1990).
               
               Indiana Quilt Registry Project, "Quilts of Indiana: Crossroads of Memoires,"
                            Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, III (Spring, 1991).
               Jeske, Robert J., "The 
                            Wabash
                        -Erie Divide and Prehistoric Cultural Contact: The Northeast-Midwest Transition in
                        Northern Indiana," Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings, XXV (1990).
               Johnson, Bruce L., "John T. McCutcheon and World War II," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, III (Fall, 1991).
               Johnson, Oliver, A Home in the Woods:…Oliver Johnson's
                            Reminiscences of Early 
                                Marion
                             County, as Related by Howard Johnson (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 1991). [Reissue of 1951 edition, with the addition of
                        drawings by Carolyn Hickman.]
               Jones, Steve, "Cutting the Crystal Cold," Traces of Indiana and
                            Midwestern History, III (Spring, 1991). [Ice harvesting.]
               Keller, Charles W., History of the Amos W. 
                                Butler
                             Audubon Society [
                                Indianapolis
                            ] (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Amos W. 
                            Butler
                         Audubon Society, 1989). Order from: The society, 3650 Cold Spring Road, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46222.
               
                  
                     
                                Kennard
                            , My Hometown, and 
                                Greensboro
                             Township: A Brief History of 
                                Greensboro
                             Township [
                                Henry County
                            ], from 1830 to 1991 (
                            Kennard
                        : 
                            Kennard
                         Historical Society, 1991). Order from: The society, P. O. Box 227, 
                            Kennard
                        , IN 47351.
               Kirby, J. 
                            Randolph
                        , "African-Americans, the Public Press and Theatrical Entertainment in Fort 
                            Wayne
                        , Indiana, 1850–1870," Black History News &
                            Notes, No. 43 (February, 1991).
               Knisely, James D., "Memories of 
                            Whitley
                         County," 
                            Whitley
                         County Historical Society Bulletin, XXIX (February, 1991).
               Kohlhepp, Frances Howard, Scenes from Memory: A Happy Childhood,
                            1900–1910, ed. Madeline C. Covi and Mary A. Starr (
                            Jeffersonville
                        : Howard Steamboat Museum, 1991). Order from: 
                            Clark County
                         Historical Society, Box 606, 
                            Jeffersonville
                        , IN 47130.
               Krause, Martin, "Forums," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, III (Summer, 1991). [The development of the. "Hoosier Group"
                        of painters, excerpted from Krause's The Passage.]
               
               Kraybill, Donald B., The Riddle of Amish Culture (
                            Baltimore
                        : Johns Hopkins University Press, 1989).
               Kriebel, Robert, Old 
                                Lafayette
                            : Vol. I, 1811–1853; Vol. II, 1853- 1876 (
                            Lafayette
                        : 
                            Tippecanoe
                         County Historical Association, 1988, 1990). Order from: The association, 909 South
                        St., 
                            Lafayette
                        , IN 47901.
               
                  
                     
                                Lake County
                             Heritage (Dallas: Curtis Media Corp., 1990). [History and biography.]
               Lane, James B., ed., "A History of Portage, Indiana," Steel
                            Shavings, XX (1991).
               
               Latham, Charles, Jr., "Mills and Market Houses," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, III (Spring, 1991). [Mills and markets in 
                            Marion
                         County.]
               MacLean, David G., Gene Stratton-Porter: A Short Biography and
                            Collector's Guide to First Editions (
                            Decatur
                        : [Americana Books], 1987).
               MacLean, David G., The Strike at Shane's: A New Edition, with an
                            Examination of Its Recent Attribution to Gene Stratton-Porter (
                            Decatur
                        : Americana Books, 1991).
               MacMahan, Jerry, "Indiana Personalizes the Federal Style," Indiana Preservationist, No. 2 (March/April, 1991).
               McShane, Stephen G., "Boom! The World War II Home Front in the Calumet
                        Region," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, III (Fall, 1991).
               
                  
                            Madison
                        , James H., "Hoosiers at War, 1941–1945," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, III (Fall, 1991).
               Marchand, Joan C., et al., West 
                                Franklin
                             Street Historic District, Euansuille, Indiana (
                            Evansville
                        : Department of Metropolitan Development, 1989).
               Mayberry, 
                            Virginia
                        , and Dawn E. Bakken, "The Civil War Home Front: Diary of a Young Girl,
                        1862–1863," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVII (March,
                        1991).
               Metress, Seamus P., and Kathleen R. Annable, The Irish in the Great Lakes Region:
                            A Bibliographic Survey (
                            Toledo
                        : University of 
                            Toledo
                        , 1990). Order from: Seamus P. Metress, Dept. of Sociology, University of
                                
                     Toledo, Toledo
                  , OH 43606.
               Nauman, Mary, "Model T Times and the Depression Years," 
                            Whitley
                         County Historical Society Bulletin, XXIX (April, 1991).
               Newby, James R., Elton Trueblood: Believer, Teacher, and Friend (
                            San Francisco
                        : Harper & Row, 1990).
               Newton, Judith V., "The Hoosier Group: Painters of the Indiana Landscape,"
                            Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, III (Summer, 1991).
               Newton, Michael, The Ku Klux Klan: An Encyclopedia (
                            New York
                        : Garland, 1991).
               
                  Operation Desert Shield: Hometown Scrapbook, 
                                Decatur
                             County, Indiana (
                            Greensburg
                        : Desert Shield/Storm Support Group, 1991).
               
                  Operation Desert Storm: Hometown Scrapbook, 
                                Decatur
                             County, Indiana (
                            Greensburg
                        : Desert Shield/Storm Support Group, 1991).
               
                  Pearls along the 
                                Wabash
                            : The Reminiscences of Newlin Hoover Yount, comp. Doris H. Cottingham (
                            Williamsport
                        : 
                            Warren
                         County Historical Society, 1991). Order from: The society, Box 176, 
                            Williamsport
                        , IN 47993.
               Pennington, Steve, "Williams Steele Holman: An 
                            Aurora
                         Native Who Championed Federal Forests," Outdoor Indiana,
                        LVI (May, 1991).
               
               Perry, Rosalind Webster, "Marie Webster: 
                            Marion
                        's Master Quilter," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, III (Spring, 1991).
               Peterson, Anne E., "Pops Whitesell: A Hoosier in the Vieux Carre," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, III (Spring, 1991).
               
                  
                     
                                Porter County
                             Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 1991).
               
                  The Portfolio Centennial (
                            Indianapolis
                        : [s.n.], 1990). [History of the Portfolio Club of 
                            Indianapolis
                        .]
               Preston, Richard, American Steel: Hot Metal Men and the Resurrection of the Rust
                            Belt (
                            New York
                        : Prentice Hall Press, 1991).
               Reser, William M., Grist Mills of 
                                Tippecanoe
                             County, Indiana, new ed. (
                            Lafayette
                        : 
                            Tippecanoe
                         County Historical Association, 1988). Order from: The association, 909 South St., 
                            Lafayette
                        , IN 47901.
               Riebs, George E., 
                     
                                Elkhart
                            : A Pictorial History (
                            St. Louis
                        : G. Bradley Publishing, 1990).
               Robbins, Coy D., African American Heritage in 
                                Morgan County
                            , Indiana (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana African American Historical & Genealogical Society, 1991). Order
                        from: Indiana AAHGS, 502 Clover Terr., 
                            Bloomington
                        , IN 47404.
               Rose, Gregory S., "The Distribution of Indiana's Ethnic and Racial
                        Minorities," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVII (September, 1991).
               "St. Vincent Hospital [
                            Indianapolis
                        ]," 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Postcard Club, XVII (February, 1991).
               Schelbert, Leo, "
                            Vevay
                        , Indiana, and Chabag, Bessarabia: The Making of Two Winegrower
                        Settlements," Yearbook of German-American Studies, XXV (1990).
               Schultz, George F., "
                            Washington
                         Aker's Civil War Letter," 
                            Whitley
                         County Historical Society Bulletin, XXVIII (October, 1990).
                Selm, William L., Annotated Bibliography, Oldenburg Historical Resources
                        Project ([s.l.: s.n.], 1988). [Product of an Indiana Heritage Research Grant; copy located
                        at the Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .]
               Simon, John Y., House Divided: Lincoln and His Father (Fort 
                            Wayne
                        : Louis A. 
                            Warren
                         Lincoln Library and Museum, 1987). [The Tenth Annual R. Gerald McMurtry Lecture.]
                        Order from: The Lincoln Museum, 1300 S. Clinton St., Fort 
                            Wayne
                        , IN 46801.
               Simons, Richard S., "Keep on Tracking: A Short History of the Eel
                        River Railroad," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History,
                        III (Spring, 1991).
               Smith, Mary Frances, and Edward E. Kirkpatrick, 4-H in Indiana,
                            1904–1990: A Record of Achievement ([s.l.]: Indiana 4-H Foundation, 1990).
               
               "Somewhere in ETO: Hoosiers in the European Theater of Operations," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, III (Fall, 1991). [Reminiscences.]
               Sonnenburg, Paul, and William A. Schoneberger, Allison, Power of Excellence,
                            1915–1990: Allison Transmission Division, General Motors Corp. (Malibu,
                        Calif.: Coastline Publishers, 1990).
               Siegel, Allen D., "Hughes and Voorhees: Two Western Pettifoggers and the Temporary
                        Insanity Plea," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, III
                        (Spring, 1991).
               Stabrowski, Donald, Holy Cross and the 
                                South Bend
                             Polonia (Notre Dame: Indiana Province Archives Center, 1991). [Preliminary
                        Studies in the History of the Congregation of Holy Cross in America, #6.] Order from: The
                        center, Notre Dame, IN 46556.
               Steinle, John, "Unlucky Soldier: Josiah Harmar's Frontier
                        Struggle," Timeline, VIII (April/May, 1991).
               Strege, Merle D., "The Demise of a Peace Church: The Church of God (Anderson),
                        Pacifism, and Civil Religion," Mennonite Quarterly Review, LXV
                        (April, 1991).
               
                  A Stroll through the Bayard Park Neighborhood, 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana (
                            Evansville
                        : Department of Metropolitan Development, 1990).
               Stuckey, 
                            Clay
                         W., Gazetteer of Limestone Mills of Owen, 
                                Monroe
                            , and Lawrence Counties to 1950 (
                            Bedford
                        : the author, 1989). [Typescript; copy at the Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .]
               "A Student History of Broad Ripple," The Village Sampler,
                        V (June, 1991). [Compiled by urban anthropology students at IUPUI, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .]
               Sugden, John, The Shawnee in Tecumseh's Time (Nortorf, 
                            Germany
                        : Volkerkundliche Arbeitsgemeinschaft, 1990).
               Taylor, Rich, Indy: Seventy-Five Years of Racing's Greatest
                        Spectacle (
                            New York
                        : St. Martin's Press, 1991).
               Theobald, Paul G., "Call School: A History of Rural Education in the Midwest to
                        1918" (Ph.D. dissertation, University of 
                            Illinois
                        , 1990).
               Thompson, Donald, "Benevolent Groups Formed in City [Craw-fordsville] to Help
                        Needy," 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XVI (May, 1991).
               Thompson, Jean, "
                            Crawfordsville
                         Ladies Organize ‘Exclusive’ Society [in 1868]," 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XVI (June, 1991).
               Thrapp, Dan L., Encyclopedia of Frontier Biography, 3 vols. (Spokane, Wash.:
                        Arthur H. Clark Company, 1990).
               Trees, Dianne S., "A Comparison of Racial Discrimination in Three Indiana Cities-
                            Indianapolis
                        , Anderson and 
                            Evansville
                         1920–1950" (Senior thesis, Lake Forest College, 1991).
                        [Typescript;  copy located at the Indiana Historical Society
                        Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .]
               Tuley, William T., St. John, Indiana, 150 Years, 1837–1987, 2nd
                        ed., rev. (Schererville: Minuteman Press, 1987). [History of the town in 
                            Lake County
                        .]
               Underwood, Chris, "[Hiram W.] Beckwith Was Noted Historian," 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XVI (April, 1991). [Indiana county historian.]
               Vanausdall, Jeanette, "
                            Ohio
                         Lemon Pie," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History,
                        III (Winter, 1991). [Shakers and their cooking in Indiana and 
                            Ohio
                        .]
               Vancil, David E., et al., "The Debs Collection at Indiana State
                        University," Labor History, XXXI (Winter/Spring, 1990).
               Vincent, Stephen A., "African-Americans in the Rural Midwest: The Origins and
                        Evolution of Beech and Roberts Settlements, ca. 1760–1900" (Ph.D.
                        dissertation, 
                            Brown
                         University, 1991).
               Walker, Nolan D., "Peabody [School Furniture Company] Impact beyond North 
                            Manchester
                         and School Seating," North 
                            Manchester
                         Historical Society Newsletter, VII (November, 1990).
               Wallace, Henry A., and Willam L. 
                            Brown
                        , Corn and Its Early Fathers, rev. ed. (Ames: 
                            Iowa
                         State University Press, 1988). [Reprint and revision of 1956 edition.]
               Weaver, Howard, "A Visit with the Colonel: Recalling an Interview with Colonel
                        Richard Lieber," Outdoor Indiana, LVI (June, 1991).
               Weinberg, Elizabeth S., "Hoosier Israelites on the 
                            Ohio
                        -A History of 
                            Madison
                        's Indiana Jews," Indiana Jewish Historical Society Publications, No. 27 (1991).
               Wilson, Douglas L., "Abraham Lincoln's Indiana and the Spirit of
                        Mortal," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVII (June, 1991).
               Wineapple, Brenda, "A Gentleman of the Press in Skirts: Janet Flanner and The New
                        Yorker," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, III (Winter,
                        1991).
               Zach, Karen, "Midland Railroad Strike at 
                            Waveland
                        -Who Won?" 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XVI (May, 1991).
               A virtually complete set of the Indiana Magazine of History beginning with
                        September, 1952, is offered as a gift to a library or other institution which may need it.
                        Contact James E. Farmer, 6438 Bramshaw Road, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 48220–4918. Telephone (317) 251–8878.
            
         
         
            A virtually complete set of the Indiana Magazine of History beginning with
                    September, 1952, is offered as a gift to a library or other institution which may need it. Contact
                    James E. Farmer, 6438 Bramshaw Road, Indianapolis, IN 48220–4918. Telephone (317)
                    251–8878.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
      
   
