
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 99, Issue 1, pages 3-92. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:99+issue:1+year:2003&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Editor's Note
            In Memoriam
            The editors note with sadness the recent passing of two former chairmen of the Department of History,
                    Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    . Maurice Baxter (1920–2002) taught at I.U. from 1948 until his retirement in
                    1991. An expert in American constitutional history, Baxter was a frequent contributor of reviews to
                    this journal. William Cohen (1941-2002) was an internationally known scholar of French history, as
                    well as a respected citizen of the university and a strong supporter of the IMH.
            Readership Survey
            In 2004, the Indiana Magazine of History will commence its 100th year of
                    publication. The occasion of this anniversary marks an opportunity to ensure that we continue to
                    provide our readers with lively, interesting writing that represents high standards of scholarship.
                    Please take a moment to fill out and return the postage-paid survey form included with this issue.
                    Your responses, criticisms, and suggestions will help us in setting a course for our centennial year
                    and beyond.
            Changes at the Indiana State Museum
            Douglas Noble, interviewed in the December 2002 IMH, announced his resignation as
                    director of the Indiana State Museum on January 9, 2003. Susan Williams—executive
                    director of the Indiana State Office Building Commission—was named interim director of
                    the museum.
            Expansion of Searchable Index Online
            The IMH inaugurated a searchable index on its web site
                    (http://www.indiana.edu/~imaghist) last year, and we are pleased to announce that the index has
                    recently been expanded to cover indexes for issues since 1955. The indexes are searchable by author,
                    title, and keyword. Researchers can find page and volume references to names of authors, articles,
                    books, and places and to subjects that have appeared in the Magazine.
            
            The twenty-five-year general indexes published for 1930–1954 and 1904–1929 will
                    be added to the online index when they have been scanned and coded. An Indiana University Honors
                    College intern is currently working to code the index for the volumes from 1930–1954, and
                    we hope to have that index in searchable form before the end of 2003.
            The support of the Indiana Historical Society, the Indiana University Department of History, and the
                    Indiana University Honors Division in this project is gratefully acknowledged.
         
         
         
            
               ANDREW WYLIE, FIRST PRESIDENT OF INDIANA
                            UNIVERSITY, 1829–1851
               Courtesy Indiana University Archives
            
            
            Andrew Wylie and Religion at Indiana University, 1824-1851: Nonsectarianism and Democracy
            
                    Gayle Williams
                    …
                
            The modern university is a secular institution, but its predecessors had religious foundations.1 Historians have tended to attribute this transformation to a process of
                    modernization pioneered at well-known private institutions. Among those schools it began with a move
                    away from sectarianism, which led eventually to a form of education that was distinguished by
                    respect for the advancement of knowledge rather than demonstrations of faith. But private eastern
                    universities were not the only places where secularization happened; it also occurred elsewhere and
                    earlier, for different reasons and with different effects. State institutions, such as Indiana
                    University (I.U.), preceded the private colleges in moving toward nonsectarian education and,
                    eventually, secularization. In the case of Indiana, this early commitment, which was grounded in
                    democratic principles, helped establish the institution as the first public university in the state.
            Indiana University's early commitment to nonsectarian, or nondenominational, education
                    reflects in part the efforts of a powerful leader, Andrew Wylie, who saw within his own life the
                    need for flexibility in the profession of faith.2 Indeed, he nurtured his fellow
                    founders' commitment to nonsectarian education throughout his long administration as the
                    first president of the university (1829–1851). Indiana University was fortunate that both
                    its first president and the first president of its board of trustees (David Maxwell) served for
                    exceptionally long tenures, providing oversight in the most vulnerable years of the
                    school's history. Wylie was president during the first thirty-one years of the
                    institution's existence, having been 
                  
                     … Gayle Williams is assistant dean of the University
                            College at Indiana University-Purdue University, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     1The idea of excluding religious teaching from education is a modern
                            concept. The term "secularization" was not associated with education until
                            well into the second half of the nineteenth century. 
                        
                                    Oxford
                                 English Dictionary, see under "secularization."
                  
                     2The term "nonsectarian" was not used in documents
                            from the early nineteenth century at Indiana University. Instead, officials claimed there
                            were "no sectarian" tendencies or principles practiced at the institution
                            or that "sectarian influences" were not present on the campus.
                            "Nonsectarian" seems to have been applied retroactively to the period by
                            historians; providing an education without sectarian influences was such a new idea in the
                            early nineteenth century that there was no word for it. Early nineteenth-century Indiana
                            University was Protestant in its ethos, but in modern terms it was nondenominational.
               
                     appointed within five years of the first students' being
                    enrolled. Maxwell was the trustees' president for twenty-eight of the board's
                    first thirty-two years.
            Their long service was important for many reasons, but for the establishment of a nonsectarian policy
                    the commitment of Maxwell and Wylie was critical. There is little direct evidence about
                    Maxwell's views on nonsectarianism, and what there is derives from a few documents and
                    early historical accounts. But it is reasonable to infer that Maxwell supported Wylie's
                    position, since the president of the university could not have served long without his approval.
                    About Wylie, by contrast, much is known. He publicly expressed his views on nonsectarianism, and his
                    life reflected his religious tolerance, but early allegations by the school's opponents
                    have colored historians' treatment of the subject.3
            
            The Presbyterian affiliation of Wylie and Maxwell, as well as that of other pioneer members of the
                    faculty, made their assertion of nonsectarianism difficult to defend. I.U.'s freedom from
                    sectarian status, however, was critically important to the college's identity in the early
                    years. It distinguished the institution from the denominational colleges in the state.
                    Nonsectarianism also helped to enhance Indiana University's relationship with the state
                    legislature, to establish its position as the first public university in the state, and to shape its
                    reputation with Indiana citizens. I.U.'s opponents, recognizing the political importance of
                    its nonsectarian status, regularly challenged the institution's claims.
            Beyond the strategic advantage that came from rejecting a sectarian label, however, there was a
                    larger purpose served by the policy: nonsectarianism helped ensure that higher education would be
                    open to all citizens regardless of their religious beliefs. That view, staunchly defended by the
                    university's earliest leaders in the face of much opposition, has rarely been noted and is
                    largely forgotten.
            The first faculty member at Indiana University was a Presbyterian minister, Baynard Rush Hall, who
                    arrived in the state around 1820, probably hoping to find employment in the newly conceived
                    institution. Hall believed his aristocratic habits and education made him a kind of misfit in
                    Indiana, or in Hall's terminology, a "big-bug."4 He
                    claimed that few people in Indiana could read or write and that he was "the 
                  
                     3L. C. Rudolph, Hoosier Zion: The Presbyterians in Early
                                Indiana (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1963), 180.
                  
                     4Robert Carlton, Esq. (Baynard Rush Hall), The New
                                Purchase or, Seven and A Half Years in the Far West, ed. James Albert Woodburn (
                                Princeton
                            , N.J., 1916), vi, 81, 270. Since Hall was the first faculty member at Indiana
                            University, his text offers an insider's view of the early development of the
                            institution. Unfortunately, the value of Hall's book is diminished by his
                            cumbersome and confusing writing. Hall uses fictitious names for most of the important
                            people and places identified in the text, including himself, and uses humor or sarcasm
                            throughout. It is often difficult to determine whether he intends for the reader to take his
                            account of specific episodes seriously or whether he is simply trying to entertain.
               
                    
                    
                  PHYSICIAN DAVID MAXWELL OF BLOOMINGTON WAS PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES FOR TWENTY-EIGHT YEARS
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana University Archives
               
                    
                    
                  BAYNARD RUSH HALL, THE
                                UNIVERSITY'S FIRST FACULTY MEMBER, WROTE A THINLY VEILED DESCRIPTION (THE NEW PURCHASE, OR
                                    SEVEN AND A HALF YEARS IN
                                THE FAR WEST
                     , 1843) OF ITS
                                EARLY YEARS
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana University Archives
               
                     first man since the creation of the world that read Greek in the
                    New Purchase!"5 In fact, his description of the establishment of
                    Indiana Seminary (later named Indiana University) suggests that the early prejudice against the
                    young institution reflected primarily the alienation of the local community from educated people and
                    was not merely the result of a bias against Presbyterians.
            Religion became a more central focus for the complaints against the institution in 1827, when the
                    trustees decided to hire a second professor, John Harney, to teach mathematics. Harney, who was
                    "nominally" Presbyterian, was chosen by the trustees over several other
                    candidates. Hall reported that the locals objected to spending money on a second professor because
                    they "set no value on learning" and added that when the locals became aware that
                    Harney was Presbyterian, "the wrath was roused of people, religious and irreligious, of all
                    other sects."6 But the local citizens' group failed to prevent
                    Harney's appointment. The trustees had acted quickly, awarding the position to Harney when
                    they heard that a group was on the way to protest.
            Maxwell attempted to soothe the citizens' concerns over the hiring of the second
                    Presbyterian minister by noting that the board itself was religiously diverse, representing six
                    different denominations. He added that the board would watch the faculty vigilantly and remove a
                    professor the "instant danger is found to threaten the State from our present
                        course."7 In other words, any faculty member who threatened the
                    nonsectarian status of Indiana Seminary would be fired.
            The Indiana General Assembly acted in January 1827 to create a board of visitors to assess the new
                    school. The visitors inspected the seminary's records, its course of study, and its
                    students and, finding the institution free of aristocratic or sectarian influences, they recommended
                    that Indiana Seminary become a college. The legislature accepted their recommendation, and on
                    January 24, 1828, established Indiana College.8 Within a few months, the board
                    of trustees began looking for a president for the new college.
            Their choice was Andrew Wylie, an ordained Presbyterian minister, and he was inaugurated on October
                    29, 1829. Invited a few months later by the joint committee on education to address the state
                    legislature, he traveled to 
                        Indianapolis
                     on horseback, and in the course of his address he spoke about the relationship between
                    education and religion.9
            
            
               
                  5
                  Ibid., 132, 158.
               
                  6
                  Ibid., 328.
               
                  7
                  Ibid., 332.
               
                  8James A. Woodburn, History of Indiana University
                            1820–1902 (2 vols., 
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1940), I, 30-32.
               
                  9
                  Ibid., 54, 75.
            
            
            Wylie made it clear he respected other religious traditions: 
                        Let us be careful not to impose our views of truth upon others
                    , he said, adding that real Christians should not be prejudiced against those who held
                    different opinions and should not be led "to the calling of hard names, misrepresentation,
                    and every species of unreasonable opposition." Further, Wylie went on to say, 
                        were the alternative proposed to my choice, whether to stand, at the final and decisive
                            judgment which awaits us all in the condition of such a Christian, or that
                            of the moderate infidel, who takes his view of duty and of the character and government of
                            God from nature alone, I should unhesitatingly prefer the latter.10
                  
                    
            
            Wylie recommended to the legislators that they give religion and morality their "proper
                    place in a system of liberal public instruction," which, he claimed, was the best and
                    surest way to prevent "the many evils which flow from the prevalence of this vile and
                    odious spirit" of sectarian opposition. He then called on the legislators to help their
                    sons gain the "proper conceptions of the character of God." 
                        Let our youth be taught to fear God and keep his commandments; but let their teachers be
                            enlightened, liberal-minded men—men of science, and they will find employment
                            enough, for themselves and their pupils, on congenial subjects, and be under no temptation
                            to lead them into the dark and thorny wilderness of mystical Theology.11
                  
                    
            
            Unfortunately, Wylie's address before the legislature in early 1830 did not prevent further
                    attacks on the institution, which were characterized as the effort to "Drive sectarianism
                    out of Indiana College!" David D. Banta, however, suggests that everyone connected with the
                    institution denied that sectarianism was present on the campus: "The faculty said it was
                    not; the students said it was not; the board of trustees said that it was not; and legislative
                    committees said it was not.12 Nevertheless, the presence of three Presbyterian
                    faculty members lent credence to the critics' continued charge.
            Maxwell and the board defended the college and its faculty in a report delivered to the Indiana House
                    of Representatives on December 8, 1830. In the report, the trustees insisted that the section of the
                    act that established the institution and forbade the "introduction into the college of
                    sectarian tests, and the inculcation of sectarian principles" had not been violated. They
                    added that 
                        [t]he Board do not sustain the present faculty on account of any religious opinions they may
                            profess, but for their literary attainments, their exalted qualifications, their particular
                            adaptation to the stations which they fill.13
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  10Andrew Wylie, A Discourse on Education Delivered before the
                            Legislature of the State of Indiana at the Joint Request of the Committees on Education ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ?], 1830), p. 18, copy in Andrew Wylie Presidential Papers, Collection 207 (Indiana
                        University Archives, 
                            Bloomington
                        ), hereafter cited as Wylie Presidential Papers.
               
                  11
                  Ibid., 16, 17.
               
                  12Woodburn, History of Indiana University, I, 75. The
                        first six chapters of this book were written by David D. Banta.
               
                  13Indiana, House Journal (1830), 44.
            
            
            The board also assured the legislators that if faculty members at any time failed to follow the
                    expectations established, especially if they violated the constitution of the college by teaching
                    sectarian tenets to the students, the board would "promptly and fearlessly remove
                    them." Moreover, 
                        [i]n addition to the obligation which the Board are under to their families, to the state,
                            and by the oaths they have taken, to support the constitution or charter of the college to
                            prevent the introduction of sectarian tests and qualifications, it will be perceived by the
                            General Assembly, that the institution at this time derives a further guarantee from the
                            religious complexion of the Board of Trustees …. Of this Board it is believed 4
                            are Presbyterians, or at least were so educated; 4 Protestant Episcopalians; 3 Baptists; 2
                            Methodists; 1 Covenanter, and 1 a member of the Christian society or
                            church. Out of such a mixture of religious opinion, it cannot reasonably be supposed, that a
                            majority could be prevailed upon to establish, or in any respect to countenance a sectarian
                                domination.14
                  
                    
            
            Despite these assurances, critics of the university still doubted the university's openness
                    to faculty members of other Protestant denominations. Two similar petitions submitted to the
                    legislature in late 1830 called for the selection of professors at Indiana College to be based on
                    religious affiliation.15 But a legislative committee rejected the request:
                        
                        [A] board of trustees composed of different religious denominations, under whose immediate
                            supervision, all the interests of the college pass, should be allowed to choose professors
                            in the various departments of science, with a single eye to their literary attainments, and
                            without regard to religious opinions, the committee believe even the petitioners themselves,
                            upon more mature reflection will concede to be the most eligible organization attainable.16
                  
                    
            
            The committee report argued that complying with the petitioners' request would violate the
                    state constitution, which clearly outlawed any "religious test… as a
                    qualification to any office of trust or profit." In addition, the committee noted that the
                    petitioners' request violated the charter of the college, which stated in their words that
                    no "president, professor, tutor, instructor, or other officer of the college"
                    could be required to profess a particular religious opinion. Nor should "any sectarian
                    tenets or principles be taught, instructed, or inculcated in the college by anyone including the
                    president and the professors.17
            
            By 1832, Wylie had already survived several attacks on the institution and had garnered the support
                    of the board of trustees and the Indiana state legislature. But, according to Banta, the greatest
                    threat to the young institution came from within the school itself during the "Faculty
                    War" of 1832.18
            
            
               
                  14
                  Ibid., 44-45.
               
                  15Woodburn, History of Indiana University, I, 76.
               
                  16Indiana, Senate Journal (1830–1831),
                        273-74.
               
                  17
                  Ibid., 274.
               
                  18Woodburn, History of Indiana University, I,
                    95-96.
            
            
            It is unclear what prompted the "Faculty War" or created the animosity between
                    Wylie and members of his faculty, though some evidence suggests the men disagreed over student
                    discipline and the governance of the institution. In any event, Wylie was acquitted by the
                    Presbyterian General Assembly and withstood this challenge to his leadership.19
            
            In his own chronicle of these events Wylie alleged that some of his Presbyterian adversaries were
                    motivated by their rivalry with Indiana College.
            
                    The State College here was liable to suffer from any successful assaults upon its President; and
                        the Colleges, one at 
                            Crawfordsville
                         [
                            Wabash
                        ] & the other at South 
                            Hanover
                         [
                            Hanover
                        ] might hope to reap some advantages from such assaults … to put the most
                        charitable construction which can be put on the conduct of some who were [indecipherable
                        word—possibly thus] connected, and who as members of Synod sat in
                        judgment on the case between W Harney & myself, I must say they seemed to be under the
                        influence of something which exerted an influence over their minds which was not favorable to a
                        clear discernment & an impartial decision.20
               
                
            Throughout the remaining years of the 1830s, Wylie's opponents came from another source: the
                    Methodists, who were the largest religious denomination in Indiana at that time. Their opposition
                    would prove to be more dangerous to the new college than the internal squabbles among the governing
                    bodies of the Presbyterian Church.
            In October 1832 the Indiana Methodist Conference, having separated from the 
                        Illinois
                     Conference and become an independent body, appointed a committee to investigate the
                    possibility of establishing a Methodist institution of higher education. When the conference met
                    again in 1834 they determined not only to try to establish their own institution, but also to
                    achieve a share of the control of Indiana College and representation within the faculty. They
                    submitted a resolution to the state legislature to this end. 
                        We would impress it upon your Hon. Body, that Literature belongs to no one religious
                            denomination of Persons, and that no one, exclusively, be allowed, to possess the keys that
                            unlock her treasures…. We look to their charter [of the State College] and read
                            that the places of President, Professor and Tutor, are open … without regard to
                            religious profession or doctrines. We then turn our eyes on the faculty, from the
                            organization of the Institution up to this hour, and we see one common hue, one common
                            religion, characterizes every member as if capacity and fitness were confined to one Church
                            and one set of religious opinions.21
                  
                    
            
            The conference delegates also requested that the legislature take upon itself the responsibility to
                    appoint new trustees for the 
                  
                     19An article in the student newspaper published many years after
                            Wylie's death stated the following: "When Dr. Wylie came home victorious
                            from the final trial the Seniors illuminated the building, and Dr. McPheeters and Custis
                            paid $14.00 for the candles." 
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Indiana Student, March 1888.
                  
                     20Andrew Wylie, "The Presbytery," 1832, manuscript,
                            Andrew Wylie Personal Papers, Collection 1 (Indiana University Archives, 
                                Bloomington
                            ), here after cited as Wylie Personal Papers.
                  
                     21George B. Manhart, DePauw Through the Years: Indiana
                                Asbury University, 1837-1884, DePauw university, 1884-1919 (2 vols., 
                                Greencastle
                            , Ind., 1962), I, 4, 5.
               
                     college, rather than continuing the policy by which members of
                    the board selected their own replacements as needed. The Methodists claimed that a change in the
                    appointment policy for the board would allow "a due proportion from other religious
                    denominations and breathe into it a new spirit, full of life and vigor."22
            
            The conference members also appointed a committee to distribute a copy of the petition to all the
                    Methodist clergy in the state, urging them to forward similar petitions to the state legislature. At
                    least six more petitions were submitted and referred to a legislative committee. One of the members
                    of the Methodist petition committee was William Daily, who was to become the third president of
                    Indiana University in 1853.23
            
            Indiana College attempted to appease the Methodists by selecting a professor from that denomination,
                    Augustus W. Ruter, as a member of the faculty in 1836, but by then Indiana Methodists were well on
                    their way to establishing their own institution of higher education. The charter for Asbury College,
                    later DePauw, was granted in January 1837.24
            
            Wylie discussed his views of the Methodist issue in his book, Sectarianism is
                    Heresy (1840). He described his interactions with Methodist C. G. Ballard, a new member of the
                    board of trustees, who was particularly "eager to be on very friendly terms with
                    me" and who asked Wylie to preach at his church and "to contribute toward the
                    purchase of a Parsonage" for the congregation. Wylie indicated that he "cheerfully
                    complied with both requests, adding that Ballard "visited me in my room in the college very
                    frequently." Wylie reported that Ballard urged 
                        that a certain professorship should be established, to be called the Wesleyan–it would conciliate and gratify the Methodists. I was indeed
                            desirous that the professorship should be created and that a gentleman, who was spoken of
                            for that purpose, a preacher of some distinction in that church, should be the person to
                            occupy it.
                     Wylie, however, objected to calling the position the Wesleyan professorship, 
                        not because of any antipathy I might be supposed to have either to Wesley, or that numerous
                            and powerful sect which he was the founder, but simply because it was a sectarian name. I
                            would have had the same objection to the name of Calvin, or to the name of any other man
                            with which the bitter feelings and atrocious prejudices of sect had become associated. I had
                            a still stronger reason for my opposition: By accepting the place which I held in the
                            Institution I had virtually pledged myself to the public to keep it clear of sectarianism:
                            and to consent to call any professorship by the name of Wesley, would be to give to his
                            followers a pledge inconsistent with the former: so that, in the one case or the other, I
                            must prove unfaithful—a predicament in which I could not consent to be
                            placed—All this I candidly stated to Mr. B. at the time. Hence his enmity.25
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  22
                  Ibid., 5.
               
                        23
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  24
                  Ibid., 6, 8.
               
                  25Andrew Wylie, Sectarianism is Heresy: In Three Parts in
                            Which Are Shown Its Nature, Evils and Remedy (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1840), 121, 122.
            
            
            Wylie's problems with his board escalated, and William Foster, another Methodist trustee,
                    eventually brought charges against him. Wylie's defenders, however, were more numerous than
                    his accusers. A large number of students, for example, signed a document and submitted it to the
                    faculty on January 28, 1839, asserting Wylie's innocence.
            
                    We the undersigned students of the Indiana University having had read to us the following charge
                        said to have been exhibited before the State Legislature against Dr. Wylie viz 'That he
                        has publickly threatened students that if they did not go to hear him preach on Sunday they
                        should be marked' &c do hereby certify that we have never
                        heard him threaten any such thing either publicly or privately, but on the contrary have always
                        understood from him when explaining our duty on this point to say that it was the wish both of
                        the Board of Trustees & his own that we should be left at perfect liberty on this
                            subject.26
               
                
            In a report submitted to the Indiana House of Representatives on January 9, 1837, the other trustees
                    also defended Wylie and the college. 
                        The Board of Trustees have … made it the duty of the president of the Faculty
                            … to deliver a public discourse or lecture, on some moral or religious subject,
                            on each Sabbath day in the college chapel to the students, who are recommended to attend. It
                            is not however made an imperative duty on them to do so; the President understanding the
                            views of the Board of Trustees on this subject, carefully abstains from the inculcation of
                            any sectarian principles or doctrines.27
                  
                    
            
            In its report, the board also requested that the status of Indiana College be changed to that of a
                    university, and in doing so it reaffirmed the nonsectarian status of the institution at this
                    critical juncture in its history: 
                        The Trustees would here remark, that the public discourses delivered by the President to the
                            students, on each Sabbath day, are numerously attended by the members of other denominations
                            of Christians in 
                                Bloomington
                             and its vicinity, whenever it is convenient for them to attend; and that no
                            complaint has ever yet reached them in reference to this particular provision of the
                            charter: upon the contrary, the Trustees are induced to believe that it is one of the
                            strongest evidences of the propriety of the course which they have adopted; nor would they
                            have been thus minute on this subject, but for the fact that prejudices have heretofore
                            existed in the public mind against Indiana College, in relation to this particular subject,
                            in view of this they deem it their imperious duty to defend the character of the Institution
                            from the malign influence which such prejudices are calculated to exert over its growing
                            prospects and usefulness.28
                  
                    
            
            The trustees defended President Wylie even more specifically by asserting that "the hatred
                    which all bigots bear to him" was "the best
                    testimonial" that Wylie avoided sectarianism.29
            
            The last few years of the 1830s were undoubtedly extremely difficult ones for Wylie. While he was
                    engaged in public controversy 
                  
                     26[Andrew Wylie], "Replication or Plea of Dr. Wylie in Answer
                            to Charges Brought against Him by William C. Foster and Others," c. 1838, Wylie
                            Presidential Papers.
                  
                     27Indiana, House Journal (1837), 3.
                  
                     28
                     Ibid., 4.
                  
                     29
                     Ibid., 3-4.
               
                    
                    
                  INDIANA UNIVERSITY'S SEMINARY SQUARE CAMPUS, C. 1840
                  Courtesy Indiana University Archives
               
                     with some of his board members, he was also struggling with his
                    own religious convictions. Comments he made in the appendix of Sectarianism is
                    Heresy offer insight into his state of mind. Wylie complained that false accusations had been
                    brought against him and that some "have taken an active part in that bitter and relentless
                    persecution which the spirit of sect has raised against me." 
                        It has, for instance, been reported far and wide, that I am verging fast towards Infidelity;
                            I have received, I know not how many letters, from points more than a thousand miles apart,
                            written by friends, who seemed to entertain serious apprehensions that there might be some
                            truth in these reports. I have, therefore, thought proper here to say, that for all such
                            surmises and suspicions there exists no foundation whatever, unless it be in the fact that I
                            preached some time ago, in the Unitarian Church in the city of 
                                Louisville
                            . I regret that this has given umbrage to any: but I do not repent of it.
                     Toward the end of his book, Wylie summarized his feelings about religious disputes: 
                        My very soul is sick of religious controversy! How I hate the little narrowing names of
                            Arminian and Calvinist! Christianity is a broad basis. Bible Christianity is what I love;
                            that does not insist on opinions indifferent in themselves—a Christianity
                            practical and pure which teaches holiness, humility, repentance and faith in Christ; and
                            which, after summing up all the evangelical graces, declares that the greatest of these is,
                            charity.
                     The same year his book was published Wylie was confirmed as an Episcopalian and sought
                    ordination as a priest, which was granted in 1842; later he preached regularly at the university.30
            
            It is difficult to gauge 
                        Bloomington
                    's reaction to Wylie's religious controversies. An article anonymously
                    signed as "Observer" and printed in the 
                        Bloomington
                    
                    Post on October 11, 1839, indicates that I.U. retained some local support. 
                        Institutions of learning, under governmental care and patronage, have generally been sought
                            after by the predominant religious sects, until some one obtained the ascendency and secured
                            its control. This University, however, forms an exception: here, though it has been made
                            somewhat the bone of contention with the churches, it has, ultimately been rescued from
                            their grasps. Indiana should be proud that she has such an institution where all sectarian
                            feelings and opinions are equally tolerated, and none exclusively inculcated ….
                            An Institution established and conducted upon such principles (for they alone conform to
                            man's true nature) must ultimately triumph though its trials are fiery and its
                            difficulties apparently overwhelming.31
                  
                    
            
            Although Wylie seems to have weathered the difficulties that surrounded his personal religious
                    convictions, new problems were 
                  
                     30Wylie, Sectarianism is Heresy, 122, 130-31. In
                            1845, Wylie made the following report to the convention of the Episcopal Diocese of Indiana:
                                
                                The undersigned respectfully reports, that during the past year he has been enabled,
                                    in the good providence of God, to preach in the chapel of the University once every
                                    Sabbath, offering prayers according to order and forms prescribed by the Church. He
                                    is encouraged to hope that these labors have not been in vain in the Lord.
                             L. C. Rudolph, Hoosier Faiths: A History of Indiana Churches &
                                Religious Groups (
                                Bloomington
                            . Ind., 1995). 165.
                  
                     31"Indiana University," 
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Post, October 11, 1839.
               
                     surfacing at the institution. On February 21, 1840, the General
                    Assembly, taking note of a decline in enrollment from 105 students in 1837–1838 to 78 in
                    1839, appointed a legislative committee "to inquire into the condition of the State
                    University, and the causes of its decline."32
            
            In 1840 private denominational colleges dominated higher education in the United States: state
                    universities, of which there were only fifteen, would not become important players in higher
                    education until after the Civil War.33 But in Indiana, legislators attempted to
                    chart a direction for their state university that defined its mission as different from that of
                    denominational colleges. They claimed that it was "right" for the public to
                    maintain "at least one college in which the sciences are taught and the morality of the
                    bible inculcated, without any reference to the peculiar tenets of any sect of Christians,"
                    and they added that the state legislature should become the guardian of Indiana University.34
            
            The trustees' address to the legislature in 1840 echoed this view, calling for free and
                    equal educational opportunities for all citizens: 
                        When to all, without distinction of rank, of sect or of party, the elevating and ennobling
                            influences of Education shall be thus made free; when every citizen shall feel, that, let
                            his lot have fallen as it may, his children shall share with the richest and most favored,
                            that cultivation of the mind and heart which raises man, far more than wealth or titled
                            distinction, among his fellow men; then may Indiana boast, that her liberties and her
                            prosperity are safe, beyond the reach almost of Fate itself. Then shall Equality rest, not
                            on Sumptuary laws or agrarian restrictions, but upon the stable and peaceful basis of equal
                                education.35
                  
                    
            
            The author of the trustees' report was Robert Dale Owen, who was among the most
                    distinguished members of the board during Indiana University's first thirty years. A
                    trustee for ten years, Owen served in the General Assembly for three years, in the Indiana
                    Constitutional Convention in 1850, and in Congress from 1843 to 1847. In 1853, Owen was named charge
                    d'affaires to the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies, and in 1872, Indiana University conferred on
                    him an honorary L.L.D. degree.36
            
            Owen, like his father Robert Owen, the founder of the communitarian experiment at 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, from 1825 to 1828, was an avowed atheist. According to Martin Marty, 
                        New Harmony
                     "was an especially scandalous venture, because [Robert Owen] made no secret of
                    being a socialist and of having nothing to 
                  
                     32Indiana, Documentary Journal (1840), 385, 394.
                  
                     33Donald G. Tewksbury, The Founding of American Colleges
                                Before the Civil War (
                                New York
                            , 1932), 133-34, 167-68.
                  
                     34Indiana, Documentary Journal (1840), 388.
                  
                     35[Robert Dale Owen], Address by a Committee of the
                                Trustees of Indiana University to the People of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1840), 4.
                  
                     36Burton Dorr Myers, Trustees and Officers of Indiana
                                University, 1820 to 1950 (
                                Greenfield
                            , Ind., 1951), 115-17; Richard William Leopold, Robert Dale Owen: A
                                Biography (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1940), 300.
               
                    
                    
                  ROBERT DALE OWEN (1801–1877)
                                WAS A MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES FROM 1838 TO 1846 AND FROM 1850 TO 1852.
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana University Archives
               
                     do with God."37 Robert Dale Owen,
                    following his father's lead, decided in 1818 while still in his teens that he no longer
                    believed in God, and he remained an atheist until well after he ended his tenure as a trustee at
                    Indiana University.38
            
            Richard Leopold's biography claims that in the 1840 trustees' report, Owen tried to
                    gain popular support for the university by arguing that "
                        Bloomington
                    's was the only non-sectarian college in the state." According to
                    Leopold, 
                        Owen's address to the people marked the turn of the tide. Early in 1841 the
                            legislative investigating committee placed its stamp of approval on both the policy of the
                            Trustees and the opinions expressed in their manifesto…. Owen himself was
                            rewarded by being one of the few Trustees who were reappointed when the Board was shaken up
                            and abbreviated.39
                  
                    
            
            It is surprising that a prominent member of a family known for its opposition to religion was
                    appointed to the board of trustees at Indiana University in the mid-nineteenth century. Yet Indiana
                    citizens also elected Owen to the state legislature and to Congress during the same period.
                    Owen's active, ten-year presence on the board indicates that the trustees were tolerant to
                    an extent that could easily be overlooked. More important, Owen's service on the board for
                    that length of time and, even more, his willingness to be a spokesman for the institution imply that
                    he felt comfortable in that role. These factors also indicate that Owen believed that the university
                    was truly nonsectarian.
            Claims of Presbyterian control of I.U. nevertheless continued to gain currency, even to the point of
                    figuring in the 1843 gubernatorial election. 
                        Indianapolis
                     attorney Alexander Davidson, writing on July 28 of that year, lamented the state of the
                    contest between Governor Samuel Bigger and his challenger, James Whitcomb: 
                        Until within a few days we were electing our candidate for Governor, but matters have assumed
                            a new phase. The attempt has been made, & I fear with some success to array the
                            whole Methodist Church against Gov. Bigger, and for these very grave
                            reasons:—Some 12 years ago the Methodist Conference memorialized the legislature
                            to appoint a Methodist minister Professor in the Indiana University. Two ministers who were
                            written to on the subject replied that there was no one in the Conference whom they could
                            safely recommend for the station. Upon the faith of that statement Bigger (who was then a
                            member of the legislature) moved to lay the memorial on the table with the simple remark
                            that there was no minister in the State of that denomination qualified to fill the place of
                            professor. This charge has slept until Whitcomb the loco candidate for gov. waked it up
                            & has bruited it all over the state with all the improvements & additions
                            that an artful demagogue was capable of making to it. The other reason (& with them
                            the most weighty) is that [in] the notice given for the meeting of the Education Convention
                            which was held in 
                                Indianapolis
                             last winter (& over which Gov. Bigger happened to preside) the
                            President of the Methodist College in Indiana was called 
                        
                           37Martin E. Marty, Pilgrims in Their Own Land:
                                        500 Years of Religion in America (
                                        Boston
                                    , 1984), 190.
                        
                           38Leopold, Robert Dale Owen, 8, 321.
                        
                           39
                           Ibid., 257-58.
                     
                            
                            professor & this is esteemed a blow at the dignity of their church! Oh, most weighty reasons! Oh, ineffable asses! If our
                            candidate is defeated it will be from this cause … the Methodist vote in this
                            State is large.40
                  
                    
            
            According to Davidson, the claim that there was not a Methodist in Indiana who was qualified to be a
                    professor at Indiana College in the early 1830s was made by two ministers, apparently from the
                    Methodist denomination, and not by Bigger. But historian Robert Clark, in an article about the 1843
                    gubernatorial election, states that it was Bigger himself who made the claim that "when 
                        Ohio
                     University wished to get a Methodist professor 'they had to send to Europe for
                    him."' Clark adds, "the fact that no Methodist preacher in Indiana was a
                    college graduate" suggests that "Bigger's contempt was not altogether
                    unfounded" and notes that when Bigger laid "the proposal on the table, he secured
                    the overwhelming support of his fellow legislators."41
            
            There were fewer Presbyterians than Methodists in early Indiana, partly because Presbyterians
                    insisted on an educated clergy, while Methodists accepted lay ministers. According to L.C.
                    Rudolph's history of the Presbyterian Church in Indiana, "Ministers of the
                    Presbyterian Church were always going away to school," while the Methodist lay preachers
                    could more easily follow the settlers who "were going deeper into the woods."42 Lay ministers contributed to the spread of the Methodist faith in Indiana,
                    but at a time when college presidents were typically members of the clergy, the Presbyterians held a
                    distinct advantage over the Methodists in the field of education. In a 1921 article on Methodism in
                    southwestern Indiana, John Iglehart observed 
                        that among the backwoodsmen who first settled Indiana there was much illiteracy, and that
                            both secular and religious education was greatly to be desired … [I]t must be
                            admitted that the stand taken by the Presbyterians, both in the matters of secular education
                            and in the demand for an educated ministry, have in a substantial degree aided in the
                            elevation of those standards [and] to that extent they are entitled to credit.43
                  
                    
            
            I.U.'s heavy reliance on Presbyterians to staff the institution left it vulnerable to
                    accusations of sectarian control, which must have been evident to the supporters of the institution
                    although they were steadfast in denying the charge. The early leaders of the school probably
                    believed that they had no choice, since in the Midwest few ministers from other traditions were
                    educated in the early years. Presbyterians, therefore, filled the void.
            
               
                  40Rudolph, Hoosier Zion, 180-81.
               
                  41Robert D. Clark, "Matthew Simpson, the Methodists, and the
                        Defeat of Governor Samuel Bigger, 1843," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        L (March 1954), 23-24.
               
                  42Rudolph, Hoosier Zion, 20-21, 28.
               
                  43John E. Iglehart, "Methodism in Southwestern Indiana,"
                            Indiana Magazine of History, XVII (June 1921), 137-38.
            
            
            A look at the makeup and experience of I.U.'s early student body offers further evidence
                    that the prominence of Presbyterians on the staff did not undermine the school's
                    nonsectarian mission. Theophilus Wylie's history of Indiana University lists all of the
                    students named in one of the university catalogues and offers brief biographies of those who
                    graduated from the institution, beginning with the class of 1830 and continuing until the class of
                    1887. Some biographies included the students' religious affiliations. Since T. Wylie was
                    himself both a Presbyterian pastor in 
                        Bloomington
                     and a professor at the university, it is likely that he personally knew the religious
                    affiliation of those students who were members of his congregation, hence the proportion named as
                    Presbyterians may be unduly large. But he also identifies the religions of some students who were
                    not Presbyterians. He lists biographies of 147 graduates of Indiana University who attended during
                    Andrew Wylie's presidency; fifty, or 34 percent, were Presbyterian; an additional
                    twenty-one, or 14 percent, belonged to other religious denominations (including ten Methodists, two
                    Baptists, two "Christians," and four Episcopalians), and seventy-six, or 52
                    percent, were not identified by religious affiliation.44
            
            Wylie's information on the earliest graduates of the institution shows that they represented
                    a variety of denominations from the beginning. Of the three students in the first graduation class
                    (1830), one was a graduate of 
                        Princeton
                     Theological Seminary and an ordained minister of the gospel, which implies that he was
                    a Presbyterian45 Neither of the other two was a member of a church, although
                    one, James Dunn, was a major supporter of a Presbyterian congregation. The first student to be
                    listed as belonging to a different denomination was Andrew Thickstun, a preacher for the Methodist
                    Episcopal Church, who graduated in 1836. In the class of 1837, Wylie lists two Episcopalians and one
                    Presbyterian, while the denominations of the other seven students are not given.46
            
            Probably the best source on student experiences during Andrew Wylie's administration is a
                    diary written by Richard Henry Holman, an 1837 graduate. Holman's father, Jesse, was a
                    Baptist minister and one of the founders of 
                        Franklin
                     College, a Baptist institution. 
                  
                     44Theophilus A. Wylie, Indiana University: Its History
                                from 1820, When Founded, to 1890 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1890).
                  
                     45An editorial note in Woodburn's History of
                                Indiana University suggests that there were actually four graduates in the 1830
                            class. Theophilus Wylie lists William Stockwell as a graduate of the class of 1831, but
                            Woodburn places him in the 1830 graduating class. Wylie, Indiana
                            University, 168.
                  
                     46
                     Ibid., 166-68, 176-79, 182-84. Among the class of
                            1839, T. Wylie lists George Grover Wright, the brother of a future governor of Indiana,
                            Joseph A. Wright. Both brothers attended Indiana University, but only George was a graduate.
                            Joseph, however, held the distinction of being among the first ten students accepted in the
                            institution by Baynard Hall. According to Wylie, George Wright was also a member of the
                            Methodist Episcopal Church. Woodburn, History of Indiana University,
                        18.
               
                     Although he never states his religious affiliation, it is likely
                    that Richard Holman was also a Baptist.47
            
            Holman frequently mentions his personal religious practices in his diary, for example, that he
                    attended services to hear the Methodist William M. Daily preach ("he is a clever fellow,
                    and one of the best Methodist preachers I ever heared [sic].") Later
                    Holman describes Daily as "a young Methodist preacher of considerable imagination and some
                    native talent, of which he is well aware." Holman adds that he goes to "hear him
                    preach once every Sunday, when it does not rain."48
            
            Holman also sometimes discusses the religious affiliations of his fellow students, and his comments
                    suggest that the student body at Indiana College in the mid-1830s contained members of several
                    denominations. Of William Jones, Holman reflects that he "will probably (altho he does not
                    now profess religion) come out a Methodist preacher." Holman says that Joseph Barwick, a
                    sophomore, is "a Methodist licensed preacher," and adds, "He
                        is my friend, and a most estimable young man."49
            
            Holman's friend James Lasselle of 
                        Logansport
                     was not only not a Presbyterian: he was not even a Protestant. Holman describes
                    Lasselle as "a young man of fine moral character and feelings, and I believe of some
                    talent. He is a Catholic in principle. Is my friend."50 Both James
                    Lasselle and his brother, Charles, attended the university from 1836 to 1839, without graduating.
                    They were members of a distinguished Catholic family that arrived in the earliest years of Indiana
                    territory. Their father, Hyacinth Lasselle, was born in Kekionga (Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , Indiana) in 1777, and some claim that he was the first white child born in Indiana
                    north of the city of 
                        Vincennes
                    . Hyacinth Lasselle was also a trustee of St. Francis Xavier Catholic Church in 
                        Vincennes
                    .51
            
            Holman records that he intensely disliked a student named John McClurkin, who was a
                    "Covenanter—a real bigotted covenanter and a bitter enemy to the Catholic
                    faith." Holman adds that he and McClurkin "had a very interesting and eddyfiing contest in the Hall, last session, concerning the
                    treatment the Catholicks should receive from the denominations."52
                    Holman's claim that Lasselle is his friend, 
                  
                     47Holman 
                                Hamilton
                            , ed., "An Indiana College Boy in 1836: The Diary of Richard Henry
                            Holman," Indiana Magazine of History, XLIM (September 1953),
                            281-82.
                  
                     48
                     Ibid., 288, 294-95, 298.
                  
                     49
                     Ibid., 300, 302.
                  
                     50
                     Ibid., 297.
                  
                     51"Charles B. Lasselle," Ibid., IV
                            (December 1908), 200; Dorothy Riker, "Francis Vigo," ibid., XXVI (March 19301, 19.
                  
                     52Holman refers to John McClurkin as "McClurkin" and
                            "Mr. McClurkin," but he never indicates his first name. 
                                Hamilton
                            , "An Indiana College Boy in 1836," 300. T. Wylie lists a
                            "John Johnston McClurkin" among the graduates of 1836. Wylie, Indiana University, 176.
               
                     whom he respects as a person of "fine moral character
                    and feelings," as well as his obvious dislike for the anti-Catholic McClurkin, indicate
                    that Holman at least was not a bigot. His attendance at Methodist services may also imply that
                    Holman, scion of a strong Baptist family, was not prejudiced in his religious practices. When Holman
                    writes in reference to his fellow students, "On Sunday, the Faculty recommend them to go to
                    church," the use of the word "recommend appears to confirm that students were not
                    required by the faculty to attend church.53
            
            After a brief illness resulting from an accident, Wylie died on November 11, 1851, and his funeral
                    demonstrated symbolically the distance the university had come from appearing to be a Presbyterian
                    stronghold. The sermon was delivered in the university chapel by Daily, who was a Methodist, an
                    alumnus, and Wylie's good friend. (Wylie had even suggested to a board member that Daily
                    would be a good candidate for a professrship.)54
            
            In his funeral address Daily praised Wylie as "one of the best and most valued friends of my
                    youthful days and riper years" and as "my Instructor—and to me a Father as well as my friend and brother
                    minister…. the Protestant Episcopal Church has lost in him one of her brightest
                    ornaments." Daily, who was with Wylie at his deathbed, reported that "[a] few
                    minutes before he departed, at his request, I knelt by his side and offered up prayers to God in the
                    name of Jesus; at the close of which he responded, 'Amen' four times."55
            
            Wylie was a firm supporter of a collegiate education freed from the limitations imposed by sectarian
                    tenets. He advocated his position in his writing and in his public addresses, and he lived his life
                    as a witness to his convictions. For a man whose own commitment to the Presbyterian Church
                    eventually faltered, it must have been ironic to be accused of trying to foist Presbyterianism on
                    young students. While the battles between Presbyterians and Methodists challenged Wylie's
                    administration, his personal friendship with a Methodist minister was more representative of Indiana
                    University in the second half of the nineteenth century.
            The claim that state universities were nonsectarian is rarely taken seriously by historians. Some
                    argue that the state institutions described themselves as nonsectarian for practical reasons,
                    specifically to attract a larger pool of potential students. Others imply that the assertion was a
                    ruse and the universities were actually controlled by various religious denominations throughout
                    much of the century. Few acknowledge that nonsectarianism was an important component 
                  
                     53
                     
                                Hamilton
                            , "An Indiana College Boy in 1836," 303.
                  
                     54[Wylie], "Replication or Plea of Dr. Wylie."
                  
                     55William M. Daily, Funeral Discourse Delivered in the
                                University Chapel in 
                                    Bloomington
                                , Indiana, November 13th, 1851, over the Remains of the Late Rev. Andrew
                                Wylie, D.D., President of Indiana University, Wylie Presidential Papers.
               
                     of the mission of state universities and represented for them,
                    at times, their democratic sense that educational opportunities should be available to all
                        citizens.56 Fewer historians still acknowledge a connection between
                    nonsectarianism and secularization.
            One scholar has taken a decidedly different position than most. In an article on the evolution of the
                    idea of a state university, Eldon Johnson claims that 
                        [t]he period between the colonial colleges and the so-called state university movement needs
                            more light because it has been portrayed as a comatose or even retrograde period inimical to
                            the development of public higher education… The impression is left that some kind
                            of later movement—new, original, essentially rootless—suddenly sprang
                            into being only after the pangs of the Civil War.57
                  
                    
            
            According to Johnson, "the institutional mission" of state universities in the
                    antebellum period was accompanied by a "parallel development toward public control and
                    public support." Nevertheless, it would take many years before the concept of
                    "public" would become a reality. Yet, during the "great proliferation of
                    denominational colleges as the dominant type of institution … an alternative
                    type—naturally smaller in number—more aligned with the state than the
                    church" saw its beginning.58
            
            Johnson's research stresses the unique contribution of the state universities to American
                    higher education, including their position 
                  
                     56The act that established the University of 
                                Missouri
                             was modeled on the law that governed the University of 
                                Virginia
                            , which stipulated that there be no religious requirements for hiring faculty or
                            admitting students. Joel P. Brereton and Patricia A. Love, eds., Religion and
                                Higher Education: 1989 Paine Lectures in Religion (
                                Columbia
                            , Mo., 1989), 8. The 1870 
                                Illinois
                             State Constitution guaranteed liberty of conscience and the
                            "'free exercise and enjoyment of religious profession and
                            worship.'" Winton U. Solberg, "The Conflict Between Religion and
                            Secularism at the University of 
                                Illinois
                            , 1867–1894 "American Quarterly, XVIII
                            (Summer 1966), 188. The constitution for 
                                Wisconsin
                             states that 
                                no sectarian instruction shall be allowed in said university.
                            
                            
                                Michigan
                             did not bar sectarianism in its constitution, but the principle of
                            nonsectarianism is mentioned in the three legislative acts that established the University
                            of 
                                Michigan
                            . Alfred Lindsay Skerpan, "A Place for God: Religion, State
                            Universities, and American Society, 1865-1920" (Ph.D. dissertation, University of 
                                Wisconsin
                            , 1998), 128-33. The first Indiana constitution called for the establishment of
                            a state university "wherein tuition shall be gratis, and equally open to
                            all," but it did not mention religion. The act that established Indiana College on
                            January 24, 1828, however, stipulated that "No instructor could be required to
                            profess any particular religious opinions, and no student was to be denied admission, or
                            refused any privileges, honors or degrees on account of religious opinions, and no sectarian
                            principles were to be taught or inculcated." In 1838, the act that established
                            Indiana University repeated and extended the nonsectarian clause: "nor shall any
                            president, professor, tutor, instructor, or other officer of the University, ever be
                            required by the Trustees to profess any particular religious opinions, and no student shall
                            be denied admission, or refused any of the privileges, honors or degrees of the University
                            on account of the religious opinions he may entertain; nor shall any sectarian tenets or
                            principles be taught, instructed or inculcated at said University, by any President,
                            professor, tutor, or instructor thereof." Wylie, Indiana
                            University, 14, 20, 24.
                  
                     57Eldon L. Johnson, "Evolution of the State University Idea:
                            Presidential Inaugural Addresses Before 1860," 1989, ERIC, ED 414 831, p. 1.
                  
                     58
                     Ibid., 17-18.
               
                     on the separation of education from church control and their
                    move "from religious preoccupation to secular ernphasis.'"59 His research, conhed to state universities before the Civil War, is particularly
                    important in indicating that movement toward public and secular higher education began much earlier
                    in the century than is typically believed.
            As Johnson suggests, nonsectarianism helped prepare state universities for secularization. Those
                    institutions, however, did not follow a clearly discernible path from a nonsectarian position to a
                    secularized one. Instead, the move was gradual and even imperceptible at the time. Nonsectarianism
                    and secularization share several characteristics. Both resist religious dogmatism, and both are
                    associated, to a degree, with religious tolerance and democratic principles. Adherence to
                    nonsectarianism, therefore, paved the way for institutions like Indiana University to move toward
                    secularization.
            In the first half of the nineteenth century Indiana University was essentially a Christian
                    institution. The school offered morning prayers and sabbath services, and it required that students
                    take religious courses. It is also evident that many of the people closely associated with the
                    institution, especially in its earliest years, were members of the Presbyterian Church.
                    Nevertheless, the history of the university during that period indicates, as its leaders maintained,
                    that it was never a Presbyterian institution and that it was always nonsectarian in practice.
            The university's claim to a nonsectarian status was critically important to its mission.
                    Among public universities in the United States, Indiana University is one of the oldest, founded at
                    a time when the distinctions between private and public institutions of higher education were
                    blurred. As I.U. approached the middle of the nineteenth century, its supporters clearly needed to
                    define its mission in contrast to that of the religious colleges in the state. The
                    university's nonsectarian status became the point of difference most frequently cited.
            The reasons for Indiana University's tenacious adherence to nonsectarian status are not
                    clear. Perhaps I.U.'s supporters promoted nonsectarianism simply because it was the only
                    characteristic that distinguished the institution from the other colleges in the state. Perhaps the
                    university's nonsectarian policy helped it to attract students, although little or no
                    evidence exists to support that interpretation. The evidence suggests that at least some of the
                    school's leaders and backers supported nonsectarianism because of their religious and
                    democratic principles. These principles are most evident in Wylie's insistence that
                    religious people should accept individuals regardless of their beliefs, in the 1840
                    trustees' statement that education must be open to all regardless of their religious sect,
                    and 
                  
                     59
                     Ibid., 18.
               
                     in the 1840 legislative committee report's claims that
                    the public has a right to at least one college that is free of sectarian principles.
            Nonsectarian education was an important component of Indiana University's mission during the
                    early years. Throughout that period, the university's faculty and supporters believed that
                    it could be both nonsectarian and a religious institution. For a time, it was. Nonsectarianism,
                    however, set the stage for the gradual secularization of the institution that would take place at
                    Indiana University in the second half of the nineteenth century.
         
         
         
            The Indiana "Bonds" Fraud, 1861–1862
            
                    Ray Shortridge
                    *
                
            In the last week of May 1862, Indiana newspapers broke the Indiana state "Bonds
                    Fraud" story to shocked Hoosiers. The newspapers had one part of it wrong—the
                    financial securities in question were Indiana 5 percent stock, not bonds. However, the press was
                    right about the fraud: two miscreants, using as collateral some $2,538,000 in fraudulent
                    securities, had parlayed them into a fortune in the 
                        New York
                     Stock Exchange worth an estimated $20 million (the equivalent of roughly
                    $360 million in today's dollars).
            Since the 
                        New York
                     financial markets were essential to Indiana's mobilization for the Civil War
                    and since the leaders of the state's political parties fought one another fiercely in the
                    newspapers during the war, from late May to late June 1862 only the news from the combat fronts
                    garnered more ink than the financial scandal. Although the fraud had been carried out in the course
                    of the preceding year and a half, newspaper editors and the public treated the scandal as a
                    one-month wonder. After June 25, 1862, when a 
                        New York
                     grand jury indicted former Indiana state agent, Daniel C. Stover, from 
                        Ladoga
                    , Indiana, and a Wall Street financier, Samuel Hallett, for forgery in the third degree,
                    the matter vanished from public view.
            These events are interesting for several reasons. For one, they remind us that persons with access to
                    wealth and power have threatened the stability of the economy in the past, as corporate malfeasance
                    at Enron and accounting firms has done recently. Second, exploring the fraud increases our
                    understanding of the administration of Governor Oliver P. Morton as its members worked tirelessly to
                    manage both the financial crisis created by the stock fraud and the political fallout. They
                    exploited new technologies of the era, particularly the steam-driven printing press (which produced
                    penny newspapers in large quantities), the telegraph, and the railroad network, to publicize their
                    story and to coordinate activities that ranged from northern 
                        Mississippi
                     to 
                        New York
                     via 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The fraud also highlights how closely Indiana's war effort was tied to the
                    national financial markets. And the disposition of the case against the malefactors by 
                  
                     * Ray Shortridge holds a Ph.D. in history from the University of 
                                Michigan
                            . He has published several articles on nineteenth-century American
                        history.
               
                    
                    
                  MERCHANTS EXCHANGE BUILDING ON MAIDEN LANE IN NEW YORK CITY, THE SITE OF THE NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE FROM 1842 TO 1865
                  
                  Courtesy Museum of the City of 
                                New York
                            
                  
                the 
                        New York
                     authorities both reveals the workings of the Tammany Hall machine of the Tweed era in 
                        New York
                     City and presages the excesses of the Gilded Age.1
            
            As was true of all northern states, industrialization had transformed Indiana's economy in
                    the 1850s. The use of interchangeable parts to make machines as diverse as sewing machines and steam
                    locomotives greatly reduced their costs while increasing the volume of production. In order to
                    deliver the mass-produced items to markets, thousands of miles of railroads were built, over 9,000
                    miles in the Midwest alone in the 1850s, linking the prairies along the 
                        Mississippi
                     River to the ports on the east coast. By 1853 seven railroads converged on 
                        Indianapolis
                    . What had been a small town of about 7,000 in 1847, before the arrival of the 
                        Madison
                     & 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the state's first railroad, turned into a booming railroad hub of more than
                    18,000 by 1860. Farmers quickly adopted new machinery that enabled them to work larger farms with
                    less labor and benefitted from higher prices 
                  
                     1The so-called "Gilded Age," a term coined by Mark
                            Twain in his novel of the same name (coauthored by Charles Dudley Warner), typically refers
                            to the decades following the Civil War. However, some historians believe the rampant
                            political corruption began earlier. See 
                                Milton
                             Rugoff, America's Gilded Age: Intimate Portraits from an
                                Era of Extravagance and Change, 1850-1890 (
                                New York
                            , 1989).
               
                     as their commodities were shipped by railroad to eastern and
                    foreign markets. All this meant that Indiana was tied to financial markets, notably in 
                        New York
                    , that attracted funds from American and European investors to provide the vast amounts
                    of capital necessary for the northern economy.
            The fraud that is the subject of this essay involved Indiana 5 percent stocks that were traded in the 
                        New York
                     market after 1847. They were issued because Indiana had defaulted in 1846 on the
                    interest due on bonds floated in the 1830s to pay for an ambitious internal improvements system. As
                    part of the settlement of the default, Indiana offered $4 million of state stock to be
                    exchanged with the bondholders for their defunct bonds. This stock paid a dividend of 5 percent, so
                    the financial market tagged the securities the "Indiana 5% Stocks."2
            
            In the 1846 financial debacle, the state had sustained significant losses by honoring fraudulent
                    bonds that were made payable to the bearer. To tighten controls on the new securities, the 1847 
                        Butler
                     Act creating the Indiana 5 percent stocks stipulated that each stock certificate had to
                    bear the name of the owner, and the act prohibited issuing stock certificates made payable to
                    "the bearer." Under this law, when an owner of Indiana 5 percent stock wished to
                    sell it, the seller surrendered the stock certificate to the Indiana state agent, who cancelled it
                    and then issued a new stock certificate to the buyer with the buyer's name written on it.
                    Indiana established an agency in 
                        New York
                     to offer better service to the nation's premier financial market, and these
                    transactions were recorded in books maintained at the 
                        New York
                     office.
            This arrangement created a logistical problem because the stock certificate had to be signed by both
                    the state auditor and the state treasurer. Before 
                        Indianapolis
                     acquired direct railroad service to 
                        New York
                     in the late 1850s, a prospective buyer might wait weeks before the new stock
                    certificate arrived from Indiana, which put the Indiana stocks at a competitive disadvantage to
                    other securities. To correct this problem, the 
                        Butler
                     Act authorized the auditor and treasurer to sign blank stock certificates that were
                    then stored at the 
                        New York
                    
                    
                  
                            
                        2
                        
                                    New York
                                 Stock Exchange, Report on the Indiana State Stock Frauds Made
                                    by the Committee of the 
                                        New York
                                     Stock Exchange, 28th June, 1862 (
                                    New York
                                , 1862), hereafter cited as NYSE, Indiana State Stock
                                Frauds.
                     
                            The NYSE appointed a committee of three financiers (H. G. Stefis, A. Campbell, and W. A.
                                Smith) to investigate the fraud. During June 1862, the committee interviewed the Indiana
                                officials directly involved in the matter as well as J. F. D. Lanier. The committee
                                drafted a narrative of the events based upon those interviews and the reports in the 
                                    New York
                                 press. The report includes three letters: the one from Governor Morton
                                explains the state's position; the district attorney's explains that
                                he and not Governor Morton delayed prosecution; and the one from a principal in L. W.
                                Jerome & Company reveals how the scheme worked. The NYSE released the report
                                following the indictments of the two miscreants. The report concluded that Indiana was
                                lax in its procedures and controls and censured the state and Lanier for not making the
                                fraud public as soon as they learned of it.
                        
               
                     office. When the state agent needed to issue a new stock
                    certificate, he took one of the signed certificates from the files and filled in the name of the new
                    owner, the date of the transaction, and the dollar amount of the stock. After counter-signing the
                    certificate, the state agent recorded the transaction and handed it to the new owner.
            In March 1859, the legislature, perhaps responding both to the recent availability of direct rail
                    connections and to a concern to reduce the opportunity for fraud, changed the procedure by mandating
                    that the auditor and treasurer no longer sign stock certificates in advance of sale. Instead, the
                    law directed the state agent in 
                        New York
                     to issue two receipts—one to the seller for the submitted stock certificate
                    and one to the buyer for the newly purchased stock. Then the agent forwarded the old stock
                    certificate along with copies of the receipts to the state auditor in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the auditor canceled the old stock certificate, issued a new one signed by the two
                    state officials to the buyer, and then sent the new stock certificate to the state agent in 
                        New York
                    . He, in turn, passed the new stock certificate along to the buyer. The state published
                    a legal notice that stock certificates not issued through this process were fraudulent and that the
                    state was not obliged to honor them. The law also required that the state agent destroy the
                    already-signed stock certificates being stored in the 
                        New York
                     office.
            When the legislature revised the procedures in March 1859, the state agent was Democrat James A.
                    Cravens from 
                        Washington County
                    , who had been appointed in February by the Democratic-controlled legislature. Cravens
                    resigned in November 1859 (and returned to Indiana where he successfully ran for Congress in 1860),
                    and Governor Ashbel P. Willard replaced him with Daniel C. Stover, Cravens's clerk in the 
                        New York
                     office. Stover, a lawyer and businessman from 
                        Ladoga
                    , was a Democrat who had been elected to the legislature from 
                        Montgomery County
                     in 1851. Stover remained state agent until February 1861, when the
                    Republican-controlled legislature that was elected the previous October replaced him with a
                    Republican, Robert N. Hudson of 
                        Terre Haute
                    .3
            
            Hudson, who had practiced law in 
                        Terre Haute
                     and was elected to the legislature in 1851, was one of only three Know Nothing
                    newspaper editors who had changed his politics to the Republican party in 1856, a presidential
                    election year. The new party was a hion of ex-Whigs, ex-Know Nothings, Democrats against the
                    expansion of slavery, and previous nonvoters, who united behind the theme of preventing the
                    expansion of slavery into the western territories, and they controlled the legislature after the
                    1860 election. Hudson assumed 
                  
                     3Rebecca A. Shepherd et al., comps. and eds., A Biographical Directory of the Indiana General Assembly (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1980-19841, I, 195-96; Crystal Pauline Randel Walters, History of
                                Clark Township, 
                                    Ladoga
                                 and Part of Scott Township 
                                    Montgomery
                                 Co., Indiana, 1828 to 1971 (Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Ind., 1971), 23, 51.
               
                     a major role in the state's new party apparatus; in
                    1860, he was a member of the state central committee and was a delegate to the Republican national
                    convention in 
                        Chicago
                     that nominated Abraham Lincoln for president.4
            
            Soon after Hudson arrived in 
                        New York
                     in February 1861, he uncovered disturbing signs of irregularity in the
                    agency's affairs. He found three volumes of illegal already-signed Indiana 5 percent stock
                    certificates in the office files, contravening the legislature's three-year-old mandate
                    that they be destroyed. Hudson destroyed the stock certificates by punching holes through the
                    signatures of the state treasurer, W. R. Nofsinger, and the state auditor, H. E. Talbot, who had
                    held those offices between 1855 and 1857. Subsequently, Hudson discovered that before his arrival
                    some of the agency's inventory of illegal certificates had been fraudulently issued. When
                    financiers came by the agency office at 52 Wall Street, between 
                        Hanover
                     and William streets, to verify that stock certificates were genuine, Hudson found that
                    some of them were not recorded in the agency books. Each unrecorded certificate had 
                        New York
                     financier Samuel Hallett's name written in as owner and was countersigned by
                    Stover, the previous Indiana state agent.5
            
            Hudson said he immediately confronted Stover, who admitted that he had issued some stock certificates
                    without receiving a genuine stock certificate in return. Stover claimed that the value of fraudulent
                    certificates did not exceed $250,000 and he asked Hudson to keep silent, in return for
                    which he would return at least $25,000 worth of fraudulent stock certificates every week
                    until all had been recovered. Hudson said he also met with Hallett, who agreed to cooperate with
                    Stover in retrieving the fraudulent stock certificates.6
            
            Hudson said he agreed not to expose Stover and Hallett during the two or three months that they said
                    it would take to recover the fraudulent certificates because he believed that the men would abide by
                    their agreement: exposure, he believed, would ruin both of them. Moreover, all three men knew that
                    prosecuting the fraud might shatter Indiana's fragile credit standing. During the spring
                    and 
                  
                     4Membership in the nativist American Party was supposedly a secret.
                            When asked about the party, members reportedly replied: "I know nothing,"
                            giving rise to its popular name, the Know Nothing party. Ray M. Shortridge, "Voting
                            for Minor Parties in the Antebellum Midwest," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, LXXIV (June 1978), 117-34. Shepherd et al., Biographical
                                Directory, I, 375; Charles Zimmerman, "The Origin and Rise of the
                            Republican Party in Indiana from 1854 to 1860," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, XIII (September/December 1917), 258, 382, 383; Carl 
                                Fremont
                             Brand, The History of the Know Nothing Party in Indiana," ibid., XVIII
                            (March/september 1922), 77, 273, 278-79.
                  
                     5John W. Dodd, who was state auditor in 1859, claimed to have written
                            Stover demanding the return of the stock certificates when the legislature changed the
                            procedure. However, Dodd said he thought that the legislation did not empower him to compel
                            Stover to return them, so he dropped the matter. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, July 4, 1862.
                  
                     6
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, May 26, 29, 1862; NYSE, Indiana State Stock
                            Frauds.
                  
               
                     summer, from time to time, Hallett and Stover returned some
                    fraudulent stock certificates, but not at the $25,000-per-week rate that they had
                    pledged. Evidently, they felt that they had the state over a barrel: if public disclosure of the
                    fraud would discredit the state, then they believed the state agent had no alternative but to keep
                    the fraud secret. By the late fall, Hudson realized that the miscreants had no intention of
                    fulfilling their end of the bargain.7
            
            Hudson also learned that Stover and Hallett had lied when they claimed that they had circulated
                    forged stock certificates worth about $250,000. By the late fall of 1861, they turned
                    over almost that amount to Hudson for destruction. But the state agent had meanwhile discovered
                    during the normal course of business that several financial houses were holding yet more of the
                    phony certificates as collateral for loans they had made to Hallett. The two confidence men had
                    bamboozled him.
            The urgent need to finance its war effort left the Union more dependent than ever upon the
                    sophisticated financial infrastructure of the 
                        New York
                     markets. In order to raise money the Lincoln administration levied higher customs
                    duties, passed "sin" and luxury taxes on consumer goods, modernized banking
                    practices inherited from the Jacksonian era, and introduced the greenback paper dollar. In the
                    spring of 1862, the United States was able to sell $500 million of 6 percent bonds at par
                    because investors were confident that the federal government's tax revenue could easily
                    meet the interest payments. Similarly, in Indiana, a month after Fort Sumter was fired upon, the
                    legislature authorized Governor Morton to obtain $2 million in loans to finance arming,
                    clothing, and maintaining Indiana troops before they were mustered into federal service. To pay for
                    the bonds, the legislature passed a property tax to be used expressly for servicing this debt.8
            
            From the beginning of the Civil War, the mobilization of both the federal government and Indiana was
                    directly tied to the 
                        New York
                     financial markets. After the General Assembly authorized the sale of war bonds in
                    December 1861, the war bond commissioners immediately entrained for 
                        New York
                     to negotiate the terms for their sale. Of course, other northern states were also
                    introducing bonds into the market, so that Indiana faced competition from sister northern states as
                    well as from the federal government in selling its bonds. Morton administration officials were
                    acutely aware that they needed 
                  
                     7The state's financial reputation was still under the cloud
                            of the 1846 default. More recent events added to 
                                New York
                            's view that Indiana state securities were not the safest in the
                            market. In 1857, partisan gridlock in the legislature had prevented its passing an
                            appropriations bill. Governor Ashbel P. Willard borrowed money from Winslow, Lanier
                            & Company to pay that year's interest on the Indiana 5 percent stock. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, January 23, 1861.
                  
                     8James M. McPherson, Battle Cry of Freedorn: The Civil
                                War Era (
                                New York
                            , 1988), 442-50; Indiana, Laws (1861), 16.
               
                     to persuade traders in 
                        New York
                     that Indiana war bonds were a secure investment. If investors lost that confidence,
                    then the bonds would sell at a steep discount and fail to raise money sufficient to arm, clothe, and
                    feed Indiana's volunteers.
            Once Hudson knew that James M. Ray and Jesse 
                        Brown
                    , two of the state's three war loan commissioners, were on their way to 
                        New York
                     to confer with financier James F. D. Lanier, a principal in Winslow, Lanier &
                    Company, to devise a strategy for placing a second round of Indiana war loans in the financial
                    market, Hudson finally realized that the fraud affair was beyond his control and turned to the loan
                    commissioners for advice.9
            
            Hudson asked Ray and 
                        Brown
                     to meet with him at the Indiana state agency. After listening to his story, the
                    commissioners invited Lanier to step over to the meeting from his office, also located at 52 Wall
                    Street. Lanier was not only experienced in the ways of the financial markets, he also had a vested
                    interest in maintaining Indiana's credit rating; through his firm and personally, Lanier
                    controlled the largest block of both Indiana 5 percent stock and the 6 percent coupon bonds issued
                    by the war loans commission. Lanier, Ray, and 
                        Brown
                     agreed that Hudson had taken the right course to recover the forged stock quickly and
                    quietly. They also concurred with Hudson's current assessment that Stover and Hallett were
                    dealing in bad faith with the state. Accordingly, the group decided to notify Morton about the fraud
                    and to recommend that the state put the matter into the hands of the 
                        New York
                     prosecutors.10
            
            While the commissioners and the state agent reported these tidings to Morton, Lanier used what he had
                    learned to protect his 
                  
                            
                        9Jesse 
                                    Brown
                                 was a 
                                    New 
                                            Albany
                                        
                           
                                 businessman who later organized the First National Bank and served as its
                                president until 1884. He was a major investor in the 
                                    New 
                                            Albany
                                        
                           
                                 waterworks and the 
                                    Kentucky
                                 & Indiana Bridge Company. History of the 
                                        Ohio
                                     Falls Cities and their Counties, (2 vols., 
                           Cleveland, Ohio
                        , 1882), II, 98, 176, 200, 297; D. P. Robbins, 
                           
                                        New 
                                                Albany
                                            
                              
                                    , Indiana: Its Advantages and Surroundings (n.p., 1892), 22, 42,
                                71, 93.
                            James M. Ray, an 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 businessman, headed the commission that built and started a state school
                                for the blind and was also a trustee of the 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 schools. Ray was the cashier for the State Bank of Indiana and later a
                                director of the 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 & 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Railroad. Encyclopedia of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                        , see under "Ray, James M."
                            J. F. D. Lanier, while serving as the president of the 
                                    Madison
                                 branch of the State Bank of Indiana, developed connections with the 
                                    New York
                                 and European financial markets. In 1847, he personally substituted the
                                Indiana 5 percent stock for the defunct bonds to investors in 
                                    New York
                                 and Europe. Lanier was a primary figure in privatizing the 
                                    Madison
                                 & 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Railroad, Indiana's first railroad, which the state had partially
                                completed before defaulting on its loans. Lanier and other 
                                    Madison
                                 businessmen bought the railroad's assets for about one-third of
                                the amount the state had invested in it. In 1849, he became a partner in Winslow, Lanier
                                & Company in 
                                    New York
                                , the first banking firm to specialize in financing midwestern railroads. J.
                                F. D. (James 
                                    Franklin
                                 Doughty) Lanier, Sketch of the life of J. F. D. Lanier (
                                    New York
                                , 1877); Bill Bruggen and R. David Cart, J. F. D. Lanier:
                                    America's Forgotten Patriot and Financier (Carmel, Ind., 2000).
                        
                  
                     10Indiana, Documentary Journal (1863), pp. 59,
                            68-99.
               
                    
                    
                  FORMER MADISON BANKER JAMES F. D.
                                LANIER, A NEW YORK FINANCIER WITH
                                HEAVY INVESTMENTS IN INDIANA SECURITIES, ADVISED THE MORTON ADMINISTRATION DURING THE SCANDAL.
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana State Museum
                own business interests. Winslow, Lanier & Company was one of several financial
                    houses on Wall Street that had loaned money to firms that had used the phony stock as collateral.
                    Obviously, a loan based on worthless stock was insufficiently underwritten, so Lanier called in all
                    of the loans that Winslow & Lanier had made in which the Indiana certificates had been used
                    as collateral. Lanier also  privately warned Jerome &
                    Company (and perhaps a few other friends who held the forged stock as collateral) that he doubted
                    their authenticity.11
            
            The interactions among Hallett, Jerome & Company, and Lanier shed light on the magnitude of
                    the fraud and the threat that it posed to the 
                        New York
                     financial market. Hallett had used the illegal certificates as collateral for loans,
                    and in turn his creditors would use the stock they received from Hallett as collateral on yet
                    another loan from a third financial institution. There probably were further links in the chain as
                    the financial institutions shifted assets to meet their changing business needs. If the financier at
                    the end of the chain holding the stock as collateral called the loan that had been made to the next
                    link in the chain, this could precipitate a succession of loan calls as each financial house in the
                    chain in turn collected the cash needed to cover its own obligations. If the amount of money
                    represented by the fraudulent stock had been insignificant, then a sequence of loan calls would
                    scarcely have caused a ripple in the 
                        New York
                     financial market; but the amount of money in forged Indiana 5 percent stock was large.
            It certainly exceeded by far the $250,000 admitted to by Stover. Evidently, Stover and
                    Hallett had already floated far more than that sum when Hudson had first confronted them in March,
                    and throughout the year they used the time gained by stalling Hudson to forge yet more certificates
                    and introduce them into the market. And Hallett and Stover had greatly compounded the potential
                    problem by leveraging the stock in two ways. First, they used some of it as capital for a wildcat
                    bank they established in 
                        New Jersey
                    , in which Hallett installed Stover as the president. They then issued bank notes
                    secured by the purported value of the Indiana stock. A wildcat bank typically would issue notes
                    several times the value of the capital invested in it, and Hallett used the notes from their own
                    bank to purchase railroad securities.12
            
            Second, Hallett also bought railroad shares with the cash obtained from loans secured by the
                    fraudulent certificates. He bought the railroad stock on a 10 percent margin, which meant he paid
                    only 10 percent of the cost of the stock with the borrowed cash. The market value of the railroad
                    stock itself covered the remaining 90 percent. Hallett then used the railroad stock as collateral
                    for more loans. By these means, the miscreants leveraged the $2,538,000 in forged
                    securities into a stock portfolio that perhaps totaled more than $20 million. Calling the
                    loans based on this stock threatened the base of a $20 million paper pyramid. The results
                    were likely to trigger a 
                  
                     11NYSE, Indiana State Stock Frauds.
                  
                  
                     12
                     Ibid. For a discussion of wildcat banking see Bray 
                                Hammond
                            , Banks and Politics in America, from the Revolution to the Civil
                                War (
                                Princeton
                            , N.J., 1957), 600-601.
               
                    
                    
                  GOVERNOR OLIVER P. MORTON DISCOVERED IN
                                1861 THAT FRAUDULENT INDIANA STOCK CERTIFICATES HAD BEEN INTRODUCED
                                INTO THE NEW YORK MARKETS, THREATENING THE
                                STATE'S ABILITY TO RAISE FUNDS TO PROVISION ITS TROOPS.
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana Historical Society
                financial panic in 
                        New York
                    , and some financial houses without sufficient cash reserves might fail. Through the
                    machinations of Hallett and Stover, the fraud threatened not only to compromise the credit of the
                    state of Indiana and its ability to finance its war effort but to precipitate a market crash that
                    could threaten the Union's ability to finance the Civil War.
            Although they did not yet realize the full magnitude of the fraud, this was the crisis Morton and
                    John P. Usher, the Indiana attorney general, faced when they arrived in 
                        New York
                     in February 1862. The governor and attorney general met with 
                        Brown
                    , Ray, Hudson, and, undoubtedly, with Lanier to discuss the state's options.
                    Usher researched the legal issues and informed the group that the state was under no obligation
                    either to redeem the false stock certificates or to pay interest on them. Moreover, in the attorney
                    general's opinion, the fraudulent use of the stock certificates did not violate Indiana
                    law! After conferring with a 
                        New York
                     lawyer, Usher told Morton 
                    
                  A. OAKEY HALL, DISTRICT ATTORNEY FOR NEW YORK COUNTY IN 1862, WAS AN ASSOCIATE OF
                                "BOSS" TWEED.
                  
                  Courtesy Museum of the City of 
                                New York
                            
                  
                that the stock certificate forgeries apparently did violate 
                        New York
                     State law.13
            
            Morton immediately met with the district attorney for the county of 
                        New York
                    , Abraham Oakey Hall. The prosecutor advised the governor that the stock swindle was now
                    a matter for his office to deal with, and he indicated that revealing it to the public might
                    jeopardize the successful prosecution of the forgers. Morton agreed to respect Hall's
                    request to maintain silence about the crime. The governor must have been quite relieved that the
                    embarrassing matter was officially out of his hands when he boarded the train back to 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            The district attorney, however, did not prosecute until late May 1862. Hall never explained why he
                    delayed several months in 
                  
                     13
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, May 30, 1862.
               
                     prosecuting Hallett and Stover. Instead, he wrapped himself in
                    the dignity of his office: "I cannot publish an explanatory card because my rule (whilst in
                    office) is under no provocation to adopt that course, believing that time strikes the proper
                    balances for or against any one in public life." Hall archly claimed that "at the
                    proper time, every disinterested person who becomes acquainted with the reasons and the facts, will
                    justify and applaud my action."14
            
            Hall had charge of the fraud case during the early months of 1862, a difficult season for friends of
                    the Union. In the East, the Confederates had the Army of the Potomac pinned near the massive defense
                    works around the District of 
                        Columbia
                    . In the West, Henry Halleck's forces were off in the 
                        Missouri
                     backwoods quelling guerrillas or stolidly camping in the mud along the 
                        Ohio
                     River. And, in 
                        Kentucky
                    , Gen. Don Carlos Buell's army seemed to have settled in for the winter to
                    enjoy the hospitality of the bluegrass country. A gloomy mood among Unionists was reflected in the
                    depressed financial markets. After the fraud became public knowledge, some observers speculated that
                    patriotic motives led Hall to let the Indiana fraud case collect dust on his desk. They contended
                    that publicizing that Hallett and Stover had used $2 million of fraudulent Indiana 5
                    percent stock to build an unsecured portfolio of perhaps $20 million would have started a
                    panic on Wall Street. According to their theory, Hall kept the matter a secret until victories could
                    buoy Union spirits and the markets.15
            
            About six weeks after Hall took charge of the case, the Union armies east and west began to advance,
                    providing a period of positive news within which to begin prosecution. In the first week of April,
                    Gen. Ulysses S. Grant won the bloody battle at 
                        Shiloh
                    , and the Union army was marching into northern 
                        Mississippi
                    . In the East, Gen. George C. McClellan successfully transported the Army of the Potomac
                    to the peninsula between the York and James rivers and was inching toward 
                        Richmond
                    . Despite this rise in Union fortunes, Hall still did not prosecute, which suggests that
                    considerations other than patriotism motivated him to delay.
            Eventually Hall was forced to initiate proceedings against Hallett and Stover in May, when Hallett
                    attempted to obtain a loan from the Park Bank in 
                        New York
                    , using as part of the collateral an Indiana 5 percent stock certificate with a face
                    amount of $10,000. Two officers of the bank, James Porter and John Hayles, witnessed
                    Hallett's attempt to secure a loan on the stock. Word of the fraud had been quietly
                    circulating on Wall Street for months, since Lanier had called all of the loans that he had advanced
                    on the stock certificates showing Hallett as the owner and had warned some bankers about them. The
                    Park Bank men took the stock certificate to the state agent, who informed 
                  
                     14
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, June 10, 1862.
                  
                     15
                     Ibid., June 24, 1862.
               
                     them that the stock was forged. Unlike Lanier and his
                    associates, Porter and Hayles did not take the news quietly, and the newspapers soon reported the
                    fraud, which forced the prosecutor to act.16
            
            Meanwhile, during the spring of 1862, while waiting for Hall to prosecute, Hudson quietly persevered
                    in recovering phony stock certificates from Hallett and Stover. By late May 1862, he had obtained
                    and destroyed about $700,000 of them. But the Indiana officials in 
                        New York
                     began to realize that even this vast sum was far less than Hallett and Stover had put
                    into circulation. The officials now estimated that there might be an additional $500,000
                    in illegal certificates circulating in the financial market.17
            
            On Wednesday, May 21, a few days before the news of the stock scandal broke in 
                  New York, Brown
                telegraphed the governor's office in 
                        Indianapolis
                     that "the fraud increases in amount. I will be in 
                        Indianapolis
                     Friday. Don't be absent." The governor's private secretary
                    and brother-in-law, Col. W. Robert Holloway, immediately wired Morton, who was visiting Indiana
                    troops south of the 
                        Shiloh
                     battlefield near Corinth, 
                        Mississippi
                    , that a "telegram from 
                        Brown
                     says fraud increases. He will arrive here [
                        Indianapolis
                    ] on Friday to see you." Morton was still in 
                        Mississippi
                     with the western armies when 
                        Brown
                     arrived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on Friday, May 23. Holloway, shocked by 
                        Brown
                    's first-hand report that more than a million dollars was involved, wired the
                    governor: "I think you had better come here at once. Matter of importance, I cannot
                    telegraph, in connection with 
                        New York
                     matter."18
            
            The Morton administration heard from 
                        Brown
                     that he now believed that Hallett and Stover had circulated about $1.2
                    million of forged stock, about five times the amount Hudson originally was told about in March of
                    1861. However, even 
                        Brown
                    's estimate in late May, shocking as it was, underestimated by half what Stover
                    and Hallett had actually issued.
            While 
                        Brown
                     was in 
                        Indianapolis
                     revealing the increasing scale of the fraud, the 
                        New York
                     newspapers were getting wind of the affair. On May 23, Lanier wired the
                    governor's office, "An expose of the Rascals will be in the papers of
                        tomorrow."19
            
            At the same time, the Morton administration moved quickly to arrest Stover. Because Stover was
                    visiting his home in 
                        Ladoga
                    , officials had the opportunity to arrest him, but they needed authorization from 
                        New York
                    . Holloway wired J. K. Gapen in the state agent's office in 
                        New York
                     and instructed him to ask District Attorney Hall to initiate a request from the state
                    of 
                        New York
                     to have Indiana 
                  
                     16
                     The People v. Samuel Hallett, 
                                New York
                             County District Attorney, Indictment Records, Court Records
                            1684–1966 (
                                New York
                             City Municipal Archives Collection).
                  
                     17
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, May 26, 1862.
                  
                     18Robert Holloway to Oliver P. Morton, May 21, 1862, 03:265, 03:264,
                            Gov. Oliver P. Morton Telegraph Books (Indiana State Archives, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ), hereafter cited as Morton Telegraph Books.
                  
                     19J. F. D. Lanier to Morton, May 23, 1862, 03:269, ibid.
                  
               
                     officials arrest Stover. Holloway urgently ordered Gapen:
                    "Don't lose a moment or he may abscond."20
            
            The fear that Stover would run for it, perhaps with a carpetbag filled with cash, was well-founded.
                    In a scandal widely publicized across the nation in 1854, Robert Schuyler, a prominent 
                        New York
                     businessman, printed thousands of fraudulent 
                        New Haven
                     Railroad shares and cheated investors out of $2 million before decamping to
                    Canada. Coincidental with the exposure of the 5 percent stock fraud in late May 1862, Treasurer
                    Michael Batzner of 
                        Franklin County
                     left 
                        Franklin
                     with $30,000 in county funds. Ostensibly, he was headed for 
                        Indianapolis
                     to deposit the money in the Indiana state treasury. Instead, Batzner left
                    $500 for his wife in a bureau drawer and fled to parts unknown with the remaining
                        cash.21
            
            But Stover's lawyer, Joseph K. McDonald, who had served as attorney general in the
                    administration of Democratic Governor Willard, met with the new Indiana attorney general, John F.
                    Kibbey, in 
                        Ladoga
                     and subsequently advised his client to go with Kibbey to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , which he did.22
            
            On Tuesday morning, May 27, Morton telegraphed Hall that they had Stover in custody. He urged Hall
                    again to request immediately that Indiana send Stover to 
                        New York
                    , and Hall complied. Morton was determined to protect his administration from criticism
                    and to get his version of events out first. While Kibbey and Stover, along with two police officers,
                    were en route, Morton had wired Hall imploring him, "Don't let Stover see anyone.
                    Make no exceptions in favor of any State Officer." Morton repeated this request to 
                        Brown
                     before taking the train to 
                        New York
                    : "Please do not allow anyone to communicate with Stover. Make no exceptions. I
                    have sufficient reasons for this." Kibbey, with Stover in custody, arrived in 
                        New York
                     on Thursday, May 29, and held Stover incommunicado in a hotel over the weekend, because
                    Hall was out of town, before turning him over to the 
                        New York
                     authorities.23
            
            High finance in 
                        New York
                     City was a murky area for Indiana newspaper editors, so when the news of the fraud
                    broke on May 24, they reprinted pieces from the more knowledgeable 
                        New York
                     press. But Indiana editors understood viscerally the political opportunities and
                    dangers stemming from the scandal. A virulent spirit of partisanship prevailed in Indiana politics
                    during the Civil War. The Republican press increasingly accused Democrats of treason when they
                    opposed 
                  
                     20Jesse J. Brown to Morton, May 21, 1862, 03:265, ibid.; W. P. Holloway to J. K. Gapen, May 23, 1862, 03:268, ibid.
                  
                  
                     21
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, May 26, 1862.
                  
                     22Holloway to Col. R. N. Hudson, May 26, 1862, 03:276, Morton
                            Telegraph Books; John F. Kibbey to Holloway, May 26, 1862, 03:278, ibid.
                  
                  
                     23Morton to A. Oakey Hall, May 27, 1862, 03:280, ibid.; Hall to Morton, May 28, 1862, 03:281, ibid.; Morton to Hall,
                            May 28, 1862, 03:284, ibid.; Morton to 
                                Brown
                            , May 29, 1862, 03:286, ibid.
                  
               
                     the Lincoln administration's policies. The Democratic
                    press charged the Black Republicans with waging a costly, pointless war, destroying civil liberties
                    in order to benefit their war-profiteering friends and to bring about a racially mixed society.
                    Predictably, Democratic papers tarred Morton with covering up the fraud, while the Republican press
                    lauded his handling of the matter and blamed Democrats for it.24
            
            As soon as the 
                        New York
                     newspapers broke the story, the Morton administration decided to address publicly two
                    questions pertaining to the fraud: was the state obliged to honor the fraudulently issued stock, and
                    had the administration engaged in a criminal act by keeping the fraud secret for almost a year and a
                    half?
            While some 
                        New York
                     newspapers were contending that Indiana should honor the forged certificates, honoring
                    hundreds of thousands of dollars' worth of this phony stock would have exceeded the
                    capacity of the state to pay the interest on the authentic Indiana 5 percent stock and on the war
                    loans. If the value of Indiana's securities had collapsed in the market, the commissioners
                    would have been unlikely to place the additional war loans, and Indiana would have been unable to
                    mobilize troops for the Civil War. Consequently the Morton administration immediately announced that
                    Indiana was not legally obligated to honor the fraudulent certificates.
            On Friday, May 30, former Attorney General Usher released a public letter stating that an 
                        examination of the law authorizing and governing this class of securities will dispel all
                            fear of liability of the State for the payment of those false certificates.
                     Usher claimed that Indiana law was explicit that a state agent could issue a new
                    certificate only to bondholders who surrendered their old defunct state bonds or to subsequent
                    buyers of the stock when sold by its owner. Moreover, only transfers that were duly recorded on the
                    books of the state agency in 
                        New York
                     could be valid. Because the certificates issued by Stover violated these provisions of
                    the law, Usher assured Hoosiers and the 
                        New York
                     financial market that "there was no liability on the part of the State for
                    their redemption."25
            
            Morton also addressed the issue in a letter to the committee formed by the 
                        New York
                     Stock Exchange to investigate the fraud. Shortly after arriving in 
                        New York
                     following Stover's arrest, Morton, a lawyer, began preparing his brief. On
                    June 2, he wired Holloway: "Send to me by Express immediately all laws in reference to
                    issue and transfer of our state stocks. Be sure to get all." In his letter to the stock
                    exchange committee, Morton reviewed the procedure stipulated in the legislation for issuing an
                    Indiana 5 percent stock certificate. He, like Usher, concluded that certificates not issued through
                    this 
                  
                     24For Indiana politics see Emma Lou Thornbrough, Indiana
                                in the Civil War Era, 1850–1880 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1969, 180-224; Kenneth M. Stampp, Indiana Politics during the
                                Civil War (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1949).
                  
                     25
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, May 30, 1862.
               
                     process were fraudulent, and, consequently, the state did not
                    have to pay interest on them. These responses seem to have silenced claims that Indiana must honor
                    the fraudulently issued certificates.26
            
            However, questions about the propriety and legality of the Morton administration's failure
                    to report the crime continued through June. The administration's need to preserve the
                    state's credit had provided strong motivation for officials to cover up the fraud. On
                    Friday, May 23, the trading day before the fraud was publicly disclosed, the price of one share of
                    Indiana 5 percent stock was $81.50. On Monday, May 26, the first trading day after the
                    news accounts, the price declined by 8 percent. Critics claimed that Indiana officials delayed
                    publicizing the fraud as long as possible in order to sell the war bonds before the state's
                    credit rating collapsed.27
            
            The 
                        New York
                     financial community was outraged because the coverup had provided Hallett and Stover
                    with an additional fifteen months to flood the market with more than $2 million of
                    fraudulent securities. The loans extended to Hallett were under-collateralized by that additional
                    amount. Wall Street spokesmen complained that the pair had engaged in "the most
                    extraordinary speculative transactions of which the Stock Exchange has any record." The
                    value of railroad stocks purchased by Hallett on margin declined 5 to 10 percent when word of the
                    hoax reached the market. In the view of the 
                        New York
                     Stock Exchange, "Colonel Hudson perpetuated the fraud for nearly a year and a
                    half by concealing it and exposed the Stock Exchange and the community to its dangerous
                    influences." The stock exchange committee charged that, by failing to ensure that the
                    previously-signed certificates were destroyed as mandated by the legislature in March 1859,
                    "the State of Indiana was lax."28
            
            Opposition newspapers seized upon the fraud as a weapon with which to attack the Republican war
                    governor, while the Morton administration worked hard to present its version of the affair to the
                    public as soon as possible. The weekend that the 
                        New York
                     newspapers broke the story, the administration collaborated with the editor of the
                    Republican 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspaper, the Daily Journal, on a report of the fraud that was
                    published in the Monday, May 26, edition. The administration also recognized the need to promote
                    their story in the 
                        New York
                     press. Democratic 
                        New York
                     newspapers, principally James Gordon Bennett's Herald,
                    attacked Morton, Hudson, the war loan commissioners, and Lanier for covering up the fraud. Morton
                    responded by telegraphing 
                        Brown
                    , who was in 
                        New York
                    , "You will see the statement in the Times, Tribune and Herald. I want you to
                    publish there all the facts."29
            
            
               
                  26Morton to Holloway, June 2, 1862, 03:295, Morton Telegraph Books; NYSE,
                            Indiana State Stock Frauds.
               
               
                  27
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Sentinel, May 28, 1862.
               
                  28NYSE, Indiana State Stock Frauds; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, May 29, 1862.
               
                  29Morton to 
                            Brown
                        , May 29, 1862, 03:286, Morton Telegraph Books.
            
            
            The administration's initial report omitted the dates when important events occurred. So,
                    while officials lauded Hudson's work in uncovering the fraud, they neglected to mention
                    that he had confronted Stover and Hallett in March of 1861 but failed to tell other state officials
                    until December. According to them, the 
                        New York
                     officials were solely responsible for the decision to keep the fraud secret: 
                        [I]t was deemed best by the 
                                New York
                             authorities to make no exposure of the affair till the effort to recover the
                            bonds had failed. They thought that if the fraud were exposed, the depreciation of our
                            securities would be greater than the whole amount of the over issue, and would moreover
                            affect the whole stock market.30
                  
                     The Morton administration's story also failed to mention that the 
                        New York
                     prosecutor was not informed about the fraud until February 1862, a year after Hudson
                    first uncovered it. Instead, this version portrayed Morton as heroically trying to bring the matter
                    before the public, only to be thwarted by the 
                        New York
                     authorities. 
                        Gov. Morton, whose frequent visits to the East have been made chiefly to prosecute the work
                            of recovering these illegal securities, at first strongly insisted on an immediate exposure
                            of the whole fraud, but yielded to the suggestions of the District Attorney, A. Oakey Hall,
                            and the Attorney General of 
                                New York
                            , Daniel S. Dickinson.31
                  
                    
            
            The Democratic press viewed the matter differently. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel accused the Morton administration of trying to perpetuate the secrecy
                    surrounding the fraud. 
                        The [
                                New York
                            ] Herald says that "the State agent, Governor, Loan
                            Commissioners and financial advisers of the State [Lanier]" agreed with Mr. Stover
                            that if he would retire $25,000 or more of the 'irregular
                            issue' weekly, that he should not be exposed. In other words, that this gross and
                            dangerous violation of public trust should be winked at by the high authorities of the
                            State, if Mr. Stover returned to the Agent of [the] State the 'irregular
                                issues'….32
                  
                     By not citing dates, the Democratic editor portrays Morton, the loan commissioners, and
                    Lanier as parties to the understanding that Hudson alone had reached with Stover and Hallett in
                    March 1861; the others had not heard about it from Hudson until almost a year later.
            The Democrats alleged that the governor and other high officials were willing to obstruct justice in
                    order to recover the fraudulent securities. During the spring of 1862, after the matter was turned
                    over to the 
                        New York
                     district attorney, Stover and Hallett returned several hundred thousand
                    dollars' worth of the stock, and the fraud was not publicized. To the opposition press,
                    this appeared to confirm that the Morton administration had struck a deal with Stover and Hallett.
            
               
                  30
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, May 26, 1862.
               
                        31
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  32
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, May 28, 1862.
            
            
            Morton took this charge seriously and arranged for Hall to refute it. On May 30, Holloway wired
                    Morton, who was in Alliance, 
                        Ohio
                    , on his way to 
                        New York
                    , "Oakey Hall writes that he will publish a letter taking the responsibility of
                    delaying prosecution if you desire." Evidently, Morton did desire this, since Hall wrote a
                    letter to Morton for publication, dating it June 3, 1862. A few days later, from 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Holloway telegraphed Morton that "I put Hall's letter in Sentinel
                    and Journal," the Democratic and Republican newspapers in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In the letter, Hall took full responsibility for keeping the affair secret after the
                    February 1862 meeting with the governor.33
                    
                        In view of the criticisms in not well informed circles, disparaging our relation to the
                            Indiana stock frauds, I take pleasure in being able to assure your [Morton's]
                            friends that no blame whatever should justly attach itself to you [Morton] for any delays of
                            prosecutions since the frauds were first brought to your knowledge. That blame, if any, must
                            fall entirely and solely upon me ….
                     Hall also addressed the fact that Stover and Hallett returned fraudulent stock during the
                    spring of 1862 while prosecution was pending. 
                        I may, however, add that any statements that the postponements were for the purpose of
                            enabling the fraudulent issues to be retired are entirely untrue.
                     Hall also denied that justice had been obstructed, claiming that efforts to retire the
                    fraudulent stock "certainly have not obstructed, but rather benefitted, my
                        prosecution."34
            
            In response the Democrats published a letter from Daniel S. Dickinson, the attorney general of 
                        New York
                    , who wrote, 
                        I received a note from Governor Morton saying it was desirable the whole matter should remain
                            a State secret for the present.
                     Clearly, Dickinson, a Democrat, was not disposed to assist the Republican governor in
                    evading responsibility for the secrecy strategy. And the Sentinel continued to
                    accuse Morton of covering up the crime: 
                        The Loan Commissioners … had disposed of the war loan without prejudice, and they
                            no longer had an object in keeping the secret from the public. Governor Morton's
                            only apology is, that he placed the matter in the hands of the District Attorney of 
                                New York
                            , and acted subsequently under his advice. This is no justification….
                            He knew a grave crime had been committed. He knew that the parties to the crime had the
                            means in their hands to augment the fraud. He knew innocent parties might be imposed upon if
                            a knowledge of the crime was concealed. Yet for months he kept the secret.35
                  
                    
            
            It was certainly true that Morton was informed about the crime in February 1862 and did not speak
                    publicly about the fraud until after the 
                        New York
                     press broke the news in the last week of May. While they were unable to deny this,
                    administration officials repeatedly 
                  
                     33Holloway to Morton, May 30, 1862, 03:290, June 9, 1862, 03:312,
                            Morton Telegraph Books.
                  
                     34
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, June 10, 1862.
                  
                     35
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, June 9, 1862.
               
                     cited the Hall letter and claimed that it was the prerogative of
                    the prosecutor to publicize the matter.
            Interestingly, Stover's lawyer, Joseph K. McDonald, defended Morton. In a letter published
                    in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Journal, McDonald wrote 
                        that so far as I am informed, no just censure can attach to Gov. Morton for any delay that
                            may have existed in bringing to light the fraud or in prosecuting the offending
                            parties…. All the delay has been the act of the authorities of the State of 
                                New York
                            , and against the urgent demand of Gov. Morton.
                    
               36
            
            The Morton administration did not merely defend its actions; it also attacked the Democrats. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Journal asked, 
                        Who does Mr. Sentinel [the editor of the Democratic newspaper, Sentinel]
                            want in power? The men of his own party who perpetrated the fraud, and the men who were
                            guilty of looseness in issuing the bonds which led to the fraud …. [I]ts
                            political bedfellows were Mr. Stover, and all the other State officials when the frauds and
                            forgeries were committed. Every Department of State, at that time, and for two years
                            thereafter, was filled, and filled only by the Sentinel's own
                            political associates—officers of its own making.37
                  
                    
            
            Both political parties were on the attack throughout June. The Sentinel claimed
                    that Morton urged his war loan commissioners to provide Hallett with favorable terms on war bonds if
                    he would turn over the fraudulent securities. Immediately, the Daily Journal
                    printed a denial by Commissioner 
                        Brown
                    . Repeatedly, the charges that Morton abetted a coverup were rebutted by claims that the 
                        New York
                     prosecutor was responsible for the delay.38
            
            The electrifying reports in the 
                        New York
                     newspapers about the fraud and the frantic exertions of the Morton administration to
                    arrest Stover forced Hall to prosecute in late May. Hall presented separate cases to the grand jury
                    against Hallett and Stover, both for forgery in the third degree. The Morton administration kept a
                    close eye on the grand jury proceedings. 
                        Brown
                     cabled Morton updates about how many witnesses appeared before the grand jury as it sat
                    from time to time to hear testimony, and he complained that the grand jury was not proceeding very
                    rapidly. Both 
                        Brown
                     and Hudson testified in the case. At last, Morton received advance word that the grand
                    jury was indicting the forgers.39
            
            On June 25, 1862, the grand jury returned true bills that indicted both Hallett and Stover. Four
                    months after Morton first notified him of the fraud, Hall succeeded in indicting both Hallett and
                    Stover for 
                  
                     36
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, June 21, 1862.
                  
                     37
                     Ibid., June 10, 1862.
                  
                     38
                     Ibid., June 21, 1862.
                  
                     39Hall to Morton, May 28, 1862, 03:281, Morton Telegraph Books; J. E.
                            McDonald to Morton, June 14, 1862, 04:15, ibid.; 
                                Brown
                             to Morton, June 12, 04:09, June 13, 04:14, June 16, 1862, 04:25, ibid.; 
                                Brown
                             to D. E. Stebbins, June 20, 1862, 04:30, ibid.; Morton to
                            Hall, June 20, 1862, 04:30, ibid.; Morton to 
                                Brown
                            , June 21, 04:32, June 23, 1862, 04:34, ibid.
                  
               
                     criminal acts "against the peace of the People of the
                    State of 
                        New York
                     and their dignity."40
            
            After this their cases disappeared into the catacombs of the 
                        New York
                     judicial system. Lacking new information and allegations, the newspapers turned their
                    attention to the summer military campaigns and filled their pages with reports from the
                    battlefronts.
            In Hall's tenure as prosecutor, delayed prosecution was not unique to the Hallett and Stover
                    cases. Elected district attorney of 
                        New York
                     County in 1862, Hall remained the prosecutor until 1868. During those six years, Hall
                    chose not to prosecute more than 10,000 of the approximately 22,000 people that he indicted.
                    Hall's ties with the corrupt Tweed Ring probably explain this record.41
            
            After his election in 1861, Hall had allied himself with the sachems of Tammany Hall, the center of
                    the Democratic party's organization in 
                        New York
                     City, and Hall eventually acknowledged his allegiance publicly when he formally joined
                    Tammany Hall, in 1864. William Marcy Tweed emerged as Tammany's boss shortly after
                    Hall's election. Tweed's corrupt clique, the Tweed Ring, controlled 
                        New York
                     City government until his downfall in 1871. Hall collaborated with the political
                    machine while serving as district attorney, and Tweed rewarded him by ensuring Hall's
                    election as mayor of 
                        New York
                     in 1868. The members of the Tweed organization aggressively and systematically used
                    their political power to enrich themselves and to solidify their electoral base. Extracting payments
                    from indicted felons who wished to keep their cases from coming to trial is typical of the Tweed
                    Ring's graft. Hall produced a lucrative flow of cash and favors-owed-to-Tweed when he chose
                    not to prosecute.42
            
            Hallett was undoubtedly aware that he could deal with the Tweed Ring to delay prosecution.
                    Inevitably, word of the fraud would reach the financial market, and Hallett's creditors
                    would compel him to replace the fraudulent Indiana 5 percent stock with valid collateral. However, a
                    deal with Tammany Hall would keep the authorities from exposing the secret until the matter
                    otherwise became public knowledge and, thereby, increase Hallett's opportunities to squeeze
                    profit from the forged stock. District Attorney Hall remained silent about the securities fraud for
                    almost four months and only commenced prosecution after the affair became a public scandal. His ties
                    with Tammany Hall were a more credible reason for Hall's silence during this period than
                    was a patriotic impulse to shore up the Union's fortunes.
            The way in which Hall disposed of the Hallett and Stover indictments also suggests that Hallett had
                    struck a deal with the Tweed Ring. Normally criminal cases were assigned to the county 
                  
                     40
                     People v. Samuel Hallett.
                  
                  
                     41
                     Dictionary of American Biography, see under
                            "Abraham Oakey Hall."
                  
                     42Jerome Mushkat, Tammany, The Evolution of a Political
                                Machine, 1789–1865 (
                                Syracuse
                            , N.Y., 1971).
               
                     court, but the attorney general ordered that the Hallett case be
                    assigned to the oyer and terminer court, where the case would be heard by Judge George Barnard of
                    the 
                        New York
                     State Supreme Court. Barnard also was Tweed's tool. Tammany Hall had ensured
                    his election to the 
                        New York
                     State Supreme Court in 1860, and Barnard served the interests of the Tweed Ring for the
                    next decade. If "one of Tweed's strong-arm men ran afoul of the law and he was
                    tried before Barnard, Tweed's intercession was equivalent to a dismissal of the
                        case."43
            
            The court scheduled Hallett's case for the first Monday of October 1862. Hallett's
                    lawyer, John Burrill, notified the district attorney that he would enter a motion to quash the
                    indictment, and Barnard heard the motion to quash on October 7, 1862.44
            
            On October 10, Barnard issued his judgment quashing the Hallett indictment. The forgery charge
                    against Hallett was defined in the section of the 
                        New York
                     State code as applying to "every person … who shall forge
                    … an instrument being, or purporting to be, the act of another …."
                    Barnard wrote that 
                        it was conceded, on the argument to quash, that the word 'another' meant
                            another person, and not a State or Corporation.
                     The district attorney countered that the legislature later defined the word
                    "person" to apply in certain circumstances to the State of 
                        New York
                    , sister states in the Union, foreign states and governments, and all private and public
                    corporations. The prosecutor claimed that this broader definition of person applied to the Indiana 5
                    percent stock certificates. Barnard thought not, concluding in an opinion rife with pettifoggery
                    that these "indictments, then, fail to show that the defendant has been guilty of the crime
                    with which he has been charged." Hallett was acquitted.45
            
            In June 1863, Stover's new lawyer, A. D. Rupell, pointed to the Hallett decision and
                    petitioned Hall to return Stover's $15,000 bail money and quash his
                    client's forgery indictment. On June 19, Stover's bail was discharged, and on June
                    27, a year and two days after the grand jury indicted Stover, the court quashed his indictment.
                    Stover, too, "walked."46
            
            
               
                  43Denis Tilden Lynch, "Boss" Tweed: The
                            Story of a Grim Generation (
                            New York
                        , 1927), 220; Jerome Mushkat, The Reconstruction of the 
                                New York
                             Democracy (
                            Rutherford
                        , N.J., 1981), 140. Barnard provided services beyond routine acquittals. As an
                        example, the judge presided over a "naturalization mill" a few years following
                        the Hallett case. In 1868, Barnard processed 37,000 immigrant aliens into American citizens in
                        three weeks, as compared with the normal rate of about 6,000 per year. Perhaps, the grateful new
                        citizens paid for the service and thereafter loyally voted for the Tammany Hall ticket.
               
                  44Microfilm reel number 28, June 25, 1862, Minutes of the 1862 Sessions,
                            The People v. Samuel Hallett, 
                            New York
                         County Court of General Sessions, Court Records 1684–1966; 
                            New York
                        
                        Times, October 7, 1862.
               
                  45
                  
                            New York
                        
                        Times, October 10, 1862.
               
                  46Microfilm reel number 111, June 23, 1863, MN5411, The
                            People v. Daniel Stover, 
                            New York
                         County District Attorney, Indictment Records.
            
            
            Stover evidently benefitted financially from the fraud. Before serving as the state agent in 
                        New York
                    , his sources of income were modest and irregular—fees earned as a country
                    lawyer, salaries from the few public offices that he held from time to time over fifteen years,
                    uncertain profits from dealing in livestock, and the return from an investment in a warehouse in 
                        Ladoga
                     near the 
                        New 
                                Albany
                            
                  
                     & 
                        Salem
                     Railroad tracks. However, after the fraud, in 1863, Stover had the capital in hand to
                    acquire the Peter Morris woolen carding mill in 
                        Ladoga
                    , to purchase new equipment that transformed the factory into an integrated weaving
                    mill, and to operate the business.47
            
            Hallett emerged from the fraud affair as the big winner. He leveraged the $2,438,000 of
                    the stock certificates that were made payable to him into a portfolio of stocks amounting to about
                    $20 million. The 
                        New York
                     Stock Exchange members, knowing that a sudden liquidation of Hallett's
                    holdings would pressure the market downward, sullenly allowed Hallett to sell the stock gradually.
                    Enriched with these proceeds, Hallett turned to other schemes. In November 1863, Morton received an
                    urgent telegram from Jefferson City, 
                        Missouri
                    : "Samuel Hallett of 
                        New York
                     is here attempting to control railroad legislation. Please send by return mail pamphlet
                    on Indiana Bond frauds." Undoubtedly, Morton mailed the pamphlet.48
            
            Stover issued fraudulent stock to only one person besides Hallett. The committee that investigated
                    the affair for the 
                        New York
                     Stock Exchange listed a $100,000 stock certificate "payable to a
                    woman, Deschaux." Stover served Indiana in 
                        New York
                     for two years and, during that time, encountered only two people that he chose to
                    enrich through his nefarious scheme, Hallett and Deschaux. The record is silent on the
                    woman's relationship with Stover, who was married to his law partner's sister
                    until she died in 1862. Stover later married his dead wife's sister. Evidently, the
                    "woman Deschaux" chose not to settle in 
                        Ladoga
                     with her gleanings from the fraud.49
            
            The fraud bears all of the hallmarks of the Gilded Age. An Indiana state officer, Stover, willfully
                    and knowingly disregarded state law by not destroying the presigned 5 percent stock certificates and
                    colluded with others to use the fraudulent certificates as collateral for loans. A Wall Street
                    financier, Hallett, probably devised the scheme and certainly actively implemented it. In so doing,
                    he put his associates in the financial market at risk by circulating forged securities and
                    threatened the stability of the market and the Union cause. As a financial advisor to the state and
                    a major investor in 
                  
                     47Theodore Gregory Gronert, Sugar Creek Saga (
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Ind., 1958), 46.
                  
                     48William R. Strachan to Morton, November 28, 1863, 12:215, Morton
                            Telegraph Books.
                  
                     49NYSE, Indiana State Stock Fraud; Shepherd et al., Biographical Directory, I, 195-96.
               
                     Indiana securities, Lanier was privy to information from state
                    officials about the fraud and used that insider information to protect his personal business
                    interests. He called in loans that were based on the fake securities and warned his closest Wall
                    Street friends, albeit in veiled terms. Lanier was under no legal obligation to notify the stock
                    exchange and thereby alert the entire market to the fraud, and it is instructive about business
                    practices of the age that he felt no ethical mandate to do so. The magnitude of the scheme, pledging
                    $2,538,000 in fraudulent Indiana 5 percent stock and building the proceeds into an
                    estimated $20,000,000 paper empire, anticipates the scale of Gilded Age peculations and
                    malfeasances.
            The Morton administration successfully managed the fiscal crisis and its political fallout. The first
                    state agent kept the matter secret for nine months, expecting to recover the fraudulent securities
                    without publicly revealing lax fiscal administration on the part of the state. However, once
                    informed of the fraud, higher state officials discharged their legal obligation by informing the
                    governor, who then turned the matter over to the 
                        New York
                     prosecutor. When the press broke the story, the governor and his closest associates
                    assigned political damage control the highest priority and coordinated their efforts by riding the
                    rails and burning the telegraph wires. They also used the mass media of the day, the newspapers, to
                    get their story out early and keep their version constantly before the public. Morton and his top
                    officials understood that the machinations of "BOSS" Tweed's politicos,
                    including the prosecutor, would control how the fraud case would be handled. After the indictments,
                    the Indiana officials let the matter die quietly in the corrupt corridors of the 
                        New York
                     City courthouse. There were no naive cries from 
                        Indianapolis
                     about justice denied in 
                        New York
                    .
            By managing the crisis successfully, the Morton administration maintained the confidence of the
                    financial markets, and Indiana floated its war loans at acceptable terms. Indiana mobilized a
                    disproportionately greater number of troops into the Union army than any other state, and, with the
                    proceeds from the war loans, the state effectively armed the 196,363 men who stepped forward.
         
         
         
            Remembering Indiana University in the 1960s: Perspectives on Dissent in the
                    Heartland
            
            
               Dissent in the Heartland: The Sixties at Indiana University. By Mary Ann Wynkoop. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2002. Pp. xi, 214. Illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    index. Clothbound, $49.95; paperbound, $19.95.)
            Editor's note: More than three decades later, the student protests that erupted
                        at Indiana University and other college campuses across America continue to provoke conflicting
                        interpretations. The IMH invited three active participants in the story Mary
                        Ann Wynkoop tells (one was an administrator and two were student protesters) and one well-placed
                        observer (a former faculty member) to reflect on the book and on the period it analyses. A
                        response from the author follows.
            
            A View from the Faculty
            
                    by Martin Ridge
                    …
                
            The first few chapters of Mary Ann Wynkoop's study brought back vague memories of Indiana
                    University students singing "Where have all the young men gone," mobilization
                    meetings, pickets, marches, and even the sweet aroma of burning grass. It also recalled graduate
                    students seeking advice about what to do when they were called up for military service (advice in
                    good conscience I could not give) and colleagues who gave all draft-eligible males students
                    "A" grades because they did not want to send them to die in the rice paddies of
                    "Nam." It also revived images: a student shot dead at 
                        Kent
                     State and a naked Vietnamese child, burned by napalm, running in the street.
            In this book Wynkoop examines the history of student activism on Indiana University's 
                        Bloomington
                     campus. Although a few student leaders were not native Hoosiers, there were no
                    "genuine" outside agitators, and the role of the faculty was nil. The roots of
                    dissent were deeply imbedded in the culture of a pre-World War II state university struggling to
                    achieve distinction. President Herman B Wells had used his considerable talent for persuasion to
                    move the institution away from its parochialism and had built a liberal university that could defend
                    the sex research of Alfred Kinsey. Wells even won support from a tight-fisted legislature that
                    looked for any excuse to cut the university's budget. His nonconfrontational approach was
                    so successful that he earns praise from Wynkoop; otherwise she has 
                  
                     … Martin Ridge is a former editor of the Journal of American History and a Senior Research Associate in the 
                                Huntington
                             Library, San Marino, 
                                California
                            . He was a member of the Indiana University Department of History from 1967 to
                            1979.
               
                     almost nothing but scorn for most university administrators, who
                    fought even minor changes in the institution's archaic rules. Wells's successors
                    were often slow to grasp both the depth and the nature of the social changes taking place across the
                    country.
            For radicalized students, Wells's liberal university was inadequate. They committed
                    themselves to confronting what Wynkoop describes as the administrative hierarchy and to challenging
                    both paternalistic policies and university governance. The social upheaval of the sixties, Wynkoop
                    argues and puts in a national context, was more than a protest against the war in Southeast Asia; it
                    was also a moment in American life when many voices previously silenced were heard.
            Wynkoop points out somewhat defensively that the universities on the east and west coasts were not
                    the only places where students demanded to be heard. Indiana and the other Big Ten schools had
                    powerful student movements, and the 
                        Bloomington
                     campus proved a microcosm of the turbulent crosscurrents that brought lasting changes
                    in American society. To make her point, Wynkoop combed the Indiana Daily Student
                    and local newspapers, read the scholarly literature on the radicalism of the 1960s, and interviewed
                    many student activists, both men and women, as well as some faculty to explain not only what
                    happened but why. This is the primary strength of her work.
            The book is partly chronological, with chapters tracing the rise of activism, the role of the New
                    Left, the antiwar movement, the different agendas within the activist leadership, the African
                    Americans' struggle for equality, the women's movement, and the misperceptions
                    about the counter culture in southern Indiana. In each instance there is a sense of struggle. But
                    the changes in the draft law, the end of the university's parietal rules, the greater
                    openness of the university to women and to blacks, plus the recognition by the most radical students
                    that 
                        Bloomington
                     was not Saint Petersburg on the eve of the Russian Revolution (although they may not
                    have put it that way) resulted in the gradual fading of activism. But the 1960s, Wynkoop argues,
                    were not a false dawn. Real changes in civil and students' rights occurred, especially for
                    women and blacks. Yet, despite the changing cultural context, their goals of equality remained only
                    partially attained. The means of reform changed—confrontation gave way to litigation and
                    the exercise of agency within the establishment. Changes in national policies also played a major
                    role.
            Wynkoop's is an interesting history of what I recall as a linked chain of minority
                    movements. Each—the protests against the draft, women's hours, governance, and
                    others—elicited responses from a distinct constituency. The largest mass demonstration,
                    in my memory, followed the Cambodian invasion, but it did not enlist a majority of students. Wynkoop
                    emphasizes throughout her work that personal physical violence and property damage were minimal.
                    There was always dialogue. As the university's policies changed, the more romantic among
                    the radicals gave up on Indiana.
            
            I arrived on the 
                        Bloomington
                     campus from San Diego State University on the eve of the student upheaval and was
                    totally unfamiliar with the university's traditions. Many of the students' issues
                    were alien to me. San Diego State had no dormitory hours for women and a very powerful faculty
                    senate that controlled almost everything but the construction projects. Free speech for students and
                    faculty was a given. There were many women faculty members, and salaries were governed by civil
                    service regulations that prohibited gender discrimination. Although there were few students of color
                    at San Diego State, President Malcolm Love insisted that departments hire qualified blacks. While
                    the Vietnam conflict prompted heated arguments, there had been no confrontations on campus.
            Indiana, therefore, was a surprise. The faculty senate, it seemed to me, had little influence in
                    making policy. Although the history faculty was sharply divided on the Vietnam issue, most supported
                    the changes advocated by the students. Some historians marched with the protesters; some made
                    speeches against the war; some raised money for student bail; but, like the students, the
                    historians' commitments and causes varied. By the time I was elected to the faculty senate,
                    it was concerned about implementing the new rules. (I was the token male WASP on a committee
                    concerned with remedying minority-based salary problems.)
            Because I was never an insider, for me the credibility of Wynkoop's narrative rests
                    primarily on the interviews with student activists. Although historical memory is useful, it is
                    always self-serving. Undoubtedly, the activists told Wynkoop "a" truth about their
                    intellectual and personal machinations, and her citations to newspapers and to scholarly studies are
                    accurate. Professors David Thelen and James 
                        Madison
                    , who read the manuscript, would not have it otherwise.
            Most scholars write the books they want to read because they endorse a cause or condemn it. This
                    gives much historical writing a Whiggish cast. This, it seems to me, is especially true of
                    Wynkoop's work. She is so profoundly in sympathy with the activists that her writing about
                    them reminded me of a few lines by Wordsworth:
                        Surprised by joy—impatient as the wind
                        I turned to share the transport—Oh! with whom
                        But thee—
                    
            
            A View from the Adminstration
            
                    by Byrum Carter
                    ……
                
            
               Dissent in the Heartland explores the history of political and cultural dissent in 
                        Bloomington
                    , focusing largely on the sixties. Mary 
                  
                     …… Byrum Carter is professor emeritus of
                            political science, Indiana University. He was chancellor and vice president of the 
                                Bloomington
                             campus, from 1969 to 1975.
               
                     Ann Wynkoop lived through the drama of the boycott, the
                    "lock-in," and the many demonstrations against the Viet Nam War or for civil
                    rights. She finds the results mixed but largely positive. The radical politics of the era, Wynkoop
                    holds, resulted in an overall improvement of society. I think she is often right, but there are some
                    features of the era that deserve greater attention or even greater sympathy.
            The students at the 
                        Bloomington
                     campus of Indiana University took many of their cues from television. Pictures from
                    Berkeley, 
                        Madison
                    , or other comparable universities provided tutelage in what good radicals should do.
                    However, the 
                        Bloomington
                     Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) and its allies had initiatives of their own. It
                    was they who kept the protest against the rise in tuition tied to the antiwar movement. The result
                    forced the trustees and university administrators to be on the alert for eruptions from many
                    locations. The university's response was formal, authority-based, and designed to make both
                    firm and fair decisions.
            In the late spring of 1969, the boycott of classes had petered out, but there remained a standing
                    threat to disrupt the enrollment process at the beginning of the fall semester. University
                    administrators took the threat seriously. The result was an elaborate effort to forestall
                    disruptions. This effort involved the use of the professionals in the bursar's office, a
                    substantial body of personnel from the dean of student's office, and a large number of
                    officers from the safety division (university police). The increase in the size of the latter group
                    constituted the most notable feature of the plan.
            In the past, few safety division personnel had been used to maintain the peace. Instead, the
                    university had relied upon the local sheriff's office, some city officers, and occasionally
                    state troopers. Many of the sheriff's deputies hated the student radicals and were quite
                    ready to use clubs and other weapons. The traditional procedures were likely to produce street
                    clashes.
            The newly expanded university police force, which had received specialized training in crowd control,
                    became a means of protecting the protesters from the "ridge runners," so-called
                    because they lived in the hills south and east of 
                        Bloomington
                    . Many of them were sheriff's deputies.
            The safety division also changed its own procedures in dealing with large marches. The focus was put
                    on assisting protesters by marching with them. The division's officers marched in front of
                    the demonstrators in large numbers and in nearly the same numbers on the sides. The effect was to
                    limit heckling and also to legitimize the march. This practice characterized the demonstrations that
                    followed Nixon's invasion of Cambodia, as well as those organized later in protest against
                    the killing of four students at 
                        Kent
                     State by members of the 
                        Ohio
                     National Guard.
            I was appointed chancellor of the 
                        Bloomington
                     campus, effective July 29, 1969. Fall enrollment was a little over thirty days away.
                         When I was appointed the trustees instructed me to establish
                    a code of student conduct and to present it to the next meeting of the board for approval. The code
                    was developed as requested, and it was adopted by the trustees. The code did not directly limit
                    speech, but it did limit where and how speech was to be exercised. There was no general discussion
                    of the code, and no special effort was made to solicit advice from either student or faculty
                    representatives. Later the code might be changed, but for the moment we simply wanted a set of rules
                    that would help preserve peace, which was a central objective for faculty members and for many
                    students.
            Outside of the major protests against Cambodia and 
                        Kent
                     State, there were few demonstrations that challenged the code. These largely involved
                    demonstrations and brief "sit-ins" against R.O.T.C. Students continued to direct
                    verbal abuse at their targets, but few of those activities constituted clear violations of the code.
            The relative quiet was in part a product of a developing faculty cohesion. Faculty members were
                    largely antiwar, but they were also supportive of the university administrators' efforts to
                    keep classrooms open. When the movement's effort to blockade classes developed, it was the
                    faculty who urged the blockaders and other students to return to class. In particular, the younger
                    faculty members of the chancellor's advisory committee were very helpful in persuading
                    those engaged in the boycott to cease and to allow students who wanted to go to class to do so. This
                    was accomplished without using the safety department.
            The culmination of the 
                        Kent
                     State protest came about through a different mechanism. The students, out in large
                    numbers, threatened to close Bryan Hall unless the president and I held a public meeting in the
                    auditorium. The president agreed to the meeting, which was held at 4:00 p.m. before a very large
                    audience. I read a statement in which I rejected, on behalf of the university, all of the student
                    demands. There was no real rejection of my statement by the student government leaders, Parker and
                    King. In fact, looking back through thirty years it is hard now to remember exactly what did happen.
                    Students on the floor objected to the classroom blockages. Somehow the meeting slipped off to the
                    subject of grading and grading practices. It all ended quietly. We went home.
            Many American universities exploded violently. Indiana did not. The basic reason for this was the
                    nature of the student leadership, which chose more moderate ways. An equally significant factor was
                    the solid attachment to the university by a large proportion of the faculty.
            The quest for student rights continued with relative success. It was the antiwar movement that
                    declined in impact. The Viet Nam War continued … and continued and continued …
                    but the great mass movement on the campus ended. Perhaps this reflected the increasingly widespread
                    public opposition to the war. Perhaps it was the end of the draft. Whatever the cause, the issue
                    became less heated. The SDS was rejected nationally, and its allies faded away.
            
            A View from the Activists
            
                    by Keith S. Parker and Michael J. King
                    ………
                
            We cannot pretend to write objectively and dispassionately about a book that recalls a place and
                    recounts an era that profoundly transformed our lives. We were Indiana University students and
                    activists in the latter years of the period revisited in Dissent in the Heartland,
                    and we appear (although not always accurately) in its pages.
            The 1960s were, for us, a time of personal as well as historical transformation. The experiences of
                    those years continue to shape how we see the world. Hearing again in Mary Ann Wynkoop's
                    book the voices of old friends and adversaries we are sometimes amused, occasionally saddened,
                    always filled with emotion. Most of Wynkoop's sources and subjects were our predecessors
                    and mentors: Guy and Connie Loftman, David and Wendy Cahill, Robin Hunter, Jim Wallihan, Allyne
                    Rosenthal, the late Rollo Turner, Robert Johnson, and many others. What Professor Wynkoop studied,
                    we all lived.
            Our generation came of age at a time when widespread social change was not simply an academic
                    concept, but a vital necessity. We were convinced we were right in our political beliefs and
                    consequently that we had a moral responsibility to engage in social action. In our own case,
                    although we are of different races, different religions, and different backgrounds, from the
                    beginning our activism was our bond. Forged at Indiana University, this bond has lasted more than
                    thirty years.
            Wynkoop accurately captures the apparent improbability of activism in the political and social
                    climate of 
                        Bloomington
                     and Indiana University in the early 1960s. 
                        Bloomington
                     was not Berkeley, or even 
                        Madison
                    . Much of the student body was initially indifferent to questions of public or
                    university policy, and the administrators were reflexively hostile to activists. Local authorities,
                    including the police, prosecutors, courts, and the local media, often responded aggressively to
                    campus protest, especially that of black students. The 
                        Bloomington
                    
                    Courier-Tribune was not above running stories and advertisements, complete with a
                    color group portrait, about the ominous presence of the local Ku Klux Klan. In southern Indiana, the
                    threat of violence against political activists was always present; the Christmas 1968 firebombing of
                    the Black Market on Kirkwood Avenue was an example of the sort of home-grown American terrorism that
                    persists to this day.
            In this light, demonstrations by small I.U. groups such as the 1962 Ad Hoc Committee to Oppose U.S.
                    Aggression in Cuba seem 
                  
                     ……… Keith S. Parker is assistant vice
                            chancellor for government and community relations at the University of 
                        California, Los
                                Angeles
                     . Michael J. King is news editor of the Austin (
                                Texas
                            ) Chronicle. Parker received his B.A. from Indiana University
                            in 1971 and was Indiana University student body president in 1970–1971. King,
                            B.A. Indiana 1971, was student body vice president in 1970–1971 and was editor of
                            the 
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Spectator from 1968 to 1970.
               
                    
                    
                  THE I.U. BLACK STUDENT HANGOUT, THE
                                BLACK MARKET, WAS BOMBED BY KLAN
                                MEMBERS IN 1968.
                  
                  Courtesy of Indiana University Archives
               
                     simultaneously naive and heroic. Subsequent student resistance
                    to in loco parentis regulations—women's curfews and
                    limited-access dorms, e.g.—was as much a declaration that college-age students had a
                    right to lead independent, adult lives as it was a response to particular campus regulations. The
                    administrators and the politicians who were apprehensive about such rational and moderate changes
                    were essentially correct: once we began to consider ourselves adult, fully enfranchised citizens,
                    who knew what else we might demand?
            Wynkoop interviewed several older activists from the period and had access to the papers of others.
                    We wish she had talked to a few more and at greater depth (we would have been eager to correspond,
                    had we been asked), rather than relying so heavily on the local newspapers. Some of the
                    book's minor errors—"facts" we occasionally failed to
                    recognize about ourselves—probably stem from that reliance. More importantly, those
                    reporters seldom explored why students opposed the war against Vietnam, supported
                    civil rights, or even believed in a world beyond the intellectual and social limits of official 
                        Bloomington
                    .
            Some of the book's misperceptions may well derive from Wynkoop's access to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     FBI's "COINTELPRO" files, which appear here in fleeting but
                    intriguing glimpses and which obviously need to be read with considerable skepticism. We are amused
                    that Wynkoop confirms, for example, what we always suspected: that the FBI was paying much
                    (incompetent) attention—at the explicit direction of J. Edgar Hoover, no
                    less—to a handful of 
                        Bloomington
                     peace activists and streetcorner revolutionaries. It is entertaining to learn, too,
                    that the dismal and short-lived "alternative" alternative newspaper, the Armageddon News, was in fact an FBI production. (The News
                    mysteriously appeared and disappeared in a few months, and nobody paid it the least bit of
                    attention.) And we would certainly like to learn more about the FBI informants who (Wynkoop reports)
                    infiltrated leadership positions in I.U. student organizations. We were told by our government
                    professors that that sort of thing was confined to the Soviet KGB and that we were paranoid to
                    suspect otherwise.
            The author recounts the seminal 1968 black student protest that shut down the fraternity bicycle race
                    known as the Little 500 that year, eventually forcing fraternities that had racist covenants to
                    delete them from their bylaws. Wynkoop also captures the importance of black and white students
                    joining together during the tense May 1969 class boycott and Ballantine Hall
                    "lock-in" of faculty negotiators that was sparked by a massive tuition increase.
                    Those events led to the formation of the United Student Movement (USM), which became the student
                    political voice on campus from 1969 to 1971.
            The author's treatment of 
                        Bloomington
                    's true alternative (at the time the preferred term was
                    "underground") newspaper, the Spectator, is reasonably accurate,
                    although truncated. The I.U. administration believed it could kill the independent voice (originally
                         a university-sponsored literary project) by denying it
                    advertising, but they failed; the staff lived on peanuts and printing costs were so low they could
                    be paid for by direct sales at twenty-five cents a copy.
            Some central voices are absent or only minimally remembered in Dissent in the
                    Heartland. One crucial example is Robert Johnson, then a graduate student and lecturer in the
                    emerging black studies program and an almost mythic figure in the 
                        Bloomington
                     activist community, both for his historical perspective and for his modest, principled
                    wisdom. Johnson introduced us to each other in the fall of 1969, predicting correctly that we might
                    become friends, and he encouraged us to campaign together—the black activist and the
                    antiwar editor—for student body president and vice president.
            Especially under pressure, Bob was our wisest and most reliable friend, to whom we could turn for
                    unblinking advice. Wynkoop reports that on May 6, 1970, following the 
                        Kent
                     State shootings, we considered calling off a planned antiwar demonstration because of
                    explicit threats of violence. Bob quietly but firmly reminded us that, whatever our fears for other
                    students' lives and for our own, we owed it to those who had gone before us to act on our
                    beliefs.
            Many other stones remain untold—those of Fred Bullard, Tom Balanoff, Mimi Bardagjy, Margy
                    Baran, Bill Wiggins, Melanie Cloghessy, Mel Yancey, Tom DeWalle, among others. We thank Professor
                    Wynkoop for those she recounts and only wish there were more.
            Almost 150 years ago abolitionist Frederick Douglass warned that "Power
                        concedes nothing without a demand. It never has, and it never will." All of us who
                    gathered together under the banner of "The Movement" in the 1960s believed this
                    principle and sought to challenge the political and corporate power structure of this country by
                    struggling against racism, sexism, poverty, and war at both national and local levels; Indiana and
                    Indiana University were touched by and contributed to the struggle for social justice in this
                    country—which did not begin in 1960 and did not end in 1971.
            Wynkoop's is the first extended study of political activism at Indiana University in the
                    1960s, and she has provided a map for future scholars, perhaps even herself, to revisit. Should she
                    do so, we hope she will take the opportunity to talk to us.
            The Author's Rejoinder
            
                    Mary Ann Wynkoop
                    …………
                
            I want to thank all of the respondents for their comments, both positive and negative, about my study
                    of Indiana University during the 1960s.
            I do want to clarify a few points. Former Chancellor Byrum Carter's statement that I
                    "lived through the drama of the boycott, 
                  
                     ………… Mary Ann Wynkoop is
                            associate director of American Studies and assistant professor in the department of history
                            at the University of 
                                Missouri
                            -
                                Kansas
                             City.
               
                     the 'lock-in,' and the many demonstrations
                    against the Viet Nam War or for civil rights" is incorrect. While I often had an eerie
                    feeling that I had been on the 
                        Bloomington
                     campus during the 1960s after all the time I spent reading and talking about it, in
                    reality I was in 
                        Greencastle
                    , Indiana, as an undergraduate at DePauw University and in 
                        New York
                     City as a graduate student at 
                        Columbia
                     University during those years. So, while I was around during antiwar and civil rights
                    demonstrations, they were not the ones that I was writing about in 
                        Bloomington
                    . In that same vein, even though I was not a student at Indiana University during the
                    1960s, I was, like Mike King and Keith Parker, a part of the generation that was shaped by the
                    events of the sixties. It is true that I studied what they lived, but I also had lived, in a certain
                    sense, what I studied. That circumstance may be part of the problem—or
                    not—depending on your point of view. I was distant enough from the actual personalities
                    of the story to be relatively objective, but I was still close to the issues of that time.
            Professor Martin Ridge's thoughtful essay provides interesting insights into the ways in
                    which a then-recent transplant from 
                        California
                     viewed the 
                        Bloomington
                     scene. I have never considered myself to be a "Whiggish" historian
                    before, but I suppose I will have to plead guilty to the charge. Chancellor Byrum Carter offers
                    insight into the perspective of an administrator at Indiana University during the last years of the
                    decade. Unsurprisingly, perhaps, I take issue with some of his conclusions. I wonder about
                    Carter's statements that SDS kept the tuition increases of 1969 tied to the antiwar
                    movement. My research led me to believe that the majority of students perceived that the Indiana
                    state legislature's decision to raise tuition came in reaction to campus protests across
                    the country—particularly those at 
                        San Francisco
                     State University and 
                        Columbia
                     University that made the nightly newscasts. I.U. students expressed frustration that
                    their own protests, in contrast to those, had been nonviolent. In fact, I would argue that rather
                    than student protestors taking "their cues from television," it was the
                    legislators who had spent too much time watching the evening news and not enough observing actual
                    events.
            Keith Parker and Mike King are right; I should have talked with them. It is one of the axioms of
                    trying to write an account of events in which so many people had a part that the greatest sin is one
                    of omission. It is true that I interviewed a lot of student activists from the earlier years of the
                    decade. As a social historian, I am interested in the ways that movements develop, and often the
                    early voices of those movements set the tone for later events. Dissent is always an act of courage
                    and especially so on a campus shaped by traditional and quite conservative values, as Indiana
                    University was in the early 1960s. From the very beginning, student activists like Guy and Connie
                    Loftman, Robin Hunter, Roller Turner, Allyne Rosenthal, and others approached political issues with
                    a firm belief in nonviolence  that carried on throughout the
                    decade. However, that does not excuse my not doing more interviews, and certainly I could have,
                    should have, pressed on.
            King and Parker wrote that they felt some of my "misperceptions" came from access
                    to FBI COINTELPRO files, but they did not provide examples of how I was misled by this research.
                    Frankly, I was simply amazed at how much time and energy the FBI spent on students who, for the most
                    part, protested peacefully. I wish I could tell who the FBI informants were, but I cannot. Reading
                    page after page of blacked-out information yielded little in the way of specific names. Sometimes I
                    could piece together who I thought was the subject of a report by the times and places mentioned,
                    but I was never certain enough of my suppositions to include them in the book. I am afraid that the
                    game of guessing the informants will just have to continue until someone confesses.
            I would hope that Parker and King might think about writing their accounts of their experiences and
                    encourage others that they mentioned to contribute to a collaborative history as well. I think a
                    collection of essays by participants would be a fascinating contribution to understanding this
                    decade that, as we have seen here, "provokes conflicting interpretations."
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               James Whitcomb Riley: A Life. By Elizabeth J. Van Allen. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1999. Pp. xii, 352. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $29.95.)
            James Whitcomb Riley would probably have been mortified by Elizabeth Van Allen's biography.
                    After all, as she demonstrates, he devoted at least as much effort to creating and maintaining an
                    image for himself as he did to his literary endeavors. One hopes, however, that deep down he would
                    have been grateful for this thorough, balanced treatment of his life, which allows him finally to
                    lay down the burden of virtual sainthood and treats his foibles and faults with sympathy.
            Van Allen's detailed and well-documented narrative covers the poet's life in
                    chapters from "A Child-World" to "Preparing a
                    Legacy" and includes a generous number of revealing quotations from Riley's
                    correspondence. She also places his life in the larger context of his times, showing how his
                    idealization of a simpler time helped his readers escape from the changes occurring in American
                    society. She concludes that it was this pandering to the nostalgic impulse that undermined
                    Riley's critical reputation.
            Van Allen's zeal to convey the impact Riley had on his contemporaries occasionally leads her
                    into misinterpretations: for example, her claim that Riley's popularity was responsible in
                    part for there being an Indiana Day at the World's Columbian Exposition in 
                        Chicago
                     in 1893 (p. 251) ignores the fact that every state had its "day"
                    during that fair. In addition, there are occasional lapses into jargon
                    ("validating" his audience, p. 121) or awkward phrasing ("to order grief
                    and to abstract and objectify the dead," p. 253). Finally, one could wish for more
                    consistent editing: over editing of quotes with brackets and sics alternates with
                    instances of typographical errors, dropped words, and incorrectly cited titles.
            More substantively, Van Men could have explored Riley's personal relationships in greater
                    depth: she states tantalizingly that Riley "played an instrumental role in helping start
                    [Booth] Tarkington's literary career" (p. 243); more information would have
                    provided a nice counterpoint to Riley's inclination toward self-centeredness. This reader
                    would like to have learned more about the intriguing friendship between Riley and Eugene V. Debs,
                    which on the surface appears so improbable. In her otherwise cogent "Epilogue,"
                    Van Allen ignores the issue of Riley's string of failed relationships with women. Finally,
                    she does not analyze the contrast between his ability to eulogize an abstract, mythical past so
                    convincingly and his inability to produce more than tediously conventional elegiac poems for family
                    and close friends (p. 253).
            These quibbles aside, Van Allen has produced a fine work that will be the benchmark for any further
                    study of Riley's life.
            LEIGH DARBEE is research editor at the Indiana Historical
                    Society.
         
         
         
            
               American Pentimento: The Invention of Indians and the Pursuit of Riches. By
                    Patricia Seed. (
                        Minneapolis
                    : University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 2001. Pp. xii, 299. Maps, appendix, notes, index. $29.95.)
            In American Pentimento, Patricia Seed argues that European traditions and goals,
                    rather than distinctions among indigenous societies between nomadic and settled groups, account for
                    concepts of "Indians" in the Americas. One purpose of this intellectual history is
                    to debunk the myth that a "universal" or international understanding justified the
                    transfer of significant assets from native residents to European settlers. Another goal, both
                    scholarly and political, is to show how the powerful paradigms of conquest continue to operate in
                    the disparate demands of contemporary indigenous peoples for land (in the north) or for dignity and
                    rights (in the south).
            Seven chapters form the core of a book in which Seed explores the nuances of language and practice
                    that distinguished English from Spanish "invention of Indians" as colonizers
                    pursued virtue and tangible wealth in the Americas. The English, who found moral value in farming,
                    ignored indigenous cultivation (done largely by women). By defining Indian society as one based on
                    hunting—a male occupation in the Americas, but a leisure activity for elites and royalty
                    back home since 
                        Norman
                     times—settlers not only justified expropriation of
                    "wasteland" for "planters" (English settlers), but also paved
                    the way for future stereotypes of the lazy (male) Indian and for the twentieth-century claim that
                    cultural origin was grounds for refusal to grant indigenous communities rights to intensive
                    cultivation of land.
            The Spanish, in contrast, aimed to extract gold and silver for export to Spain, not to produce
                    agricultural wealth or moral strength in farming. Thus, Spaniards justified exacting mineral tribute
                    and labor from conquered indigenous societies as fair return for converting
                    "cannibals" to "Christians". Instead of taking
                    land—settlers and natives alike owned land to produce foodstuffs, while Spain drew from
                    Moorish law to retain ownership of the minerals and other underground deposits—the
                    Spaniards robbed the original residents of their autonomy. By separation or subjugation, Seed shows,
                    both European practices upheld a system that continues to deny Spanish American indigenous
                    communities the right to extract gold, diamonds, and oil and prevents North American Indian nations
                    from developing land that they supposedly never cultivated.
            To make her case, Seed turns to published sources, which range from the observations of conquerors to
                    treatises on land law from both cultures and both sides of the Atlantic, to trace a rich history of
                    ideas and legal practice. She leaves to others the task of fleshing out her sweeping argument
                    through the judicial records, administrative reports, and private correspondence.
            The rhythm of this meticulous comparative case study is broken by the addition of two stand-alone
                    chapters. A single chapter on Portuguese colonialism shows that initial reliance on Jesuit missions
                         deprived Brazil's natives not just of mineral
                    rights and labor but also of land, making it perhaps the most devastating model for contemporary
                    peoples. However, this insight might have been woven into a more comprehensive
                    "Iberian" treatment. Further, the chapter draws attention to Seed's
                    silence about French and Dutch ideological and legal systems in the Americas and challenges to
                    Spanish and British models in the land-poor and quickly depopulated Caribbean. Similarly, a chapter
                    aptly titled "Fast Forward" flags the importance of the two-hundred year period
                    between the colonial systems and present societies, but, in a mere ten pages, only hints at
                    important connections and continuties.
            
               American Pentimento raises the bar in the comparative tradition in Atlantic history
                    by offering a new paradigm, not only of the "invention" of Indians as an
                    ideological process, but also of the complex intertwining of morality, avarice, history, culture,
                    and ideas drawn upon by European societies to justify their right to extract wealth—
                    territories, minerals, labor—-from the Americas. Reaching back, Seed demonstrates that it
                    is imperative to understand the cultural origins of each colonizing society, and, looking forward,
                    she convincingly shows how colonial ideologies defined the roles and boundaries that Native
                    Americans seek to redefine in the present. For scholars and students of Atlantic history, this book
                    is a virtuoso demonstration of how key themes such as cultural encounters, empire and governance,
                    religion and society, Atlantic economy, and the circulation of ideas can, as the metaphor in
                    Seed's title implies, be painted into a multilayered picture that, when scratched, reveals
                    links between past and present. American Pentimento will provoke lively
                    discussions in graduate seminars and advanced-level undergraduate courses in colonial, Atlantic,
                    and, it is hoped, European intellectual history for some time to come.
            JORDANA DYM is assistant professor of Latin American
                    history, Skidmore College, Saratoga Springs, 
                        New York
                    , and an editor of the history discussion network H-Atlantic. She is currently finishing
                    a book manuscript, "From Pueblos to Pueblo: Creating National States in Central America,
                    1759-1839" and researching the cartography of western travel writers from the Enlightenment
                    through the mid-twentieth century.
         
         
            
               Dear Brother: Letters of William Clark to Jonathan Clark. Edited by James J.
                    Holmberg. (
                        New Haven
                    , Conn.: Yale University Press, in association with the Filson Historical Society, 2002.
                    Pp. xxx, 322. Illustrations, introduction, notes, sources cited, index. $35.00.)
            It has been William Clark's fate always to be overshadowed, first by his brother, George
                    Rogers Clark, and subsequently by the mercurial Meriwether Lewis. Yet he was a considerable figure
                    in his own right. A veteran of Indian wars in the Old Northwest before joining Lewis's
                    great journey of discovery, he held important posts  thereafter,
                    becoming brigadier general of militia and United States Indian agent for the 
                        Louisiana
                     Territory in 1807 and governor of 
                        Missouri
                     Territory in 1813. Based in Saint Louis after 1808, he was at the hub of western and
                    Indian affairs. Throughout, Clark remained an entrepreneur at heart, but he also dabbled in
                    ethnography and natural science. Yet, despite an honorable contribution from Jerome O. Steffen,
                    published in 1977, no biographer has captured the fullness and complexity of Clark's
                    career. When that task is undertaken, Dear Brother will prove itself an invaluable
                    instrument.
            The book publishes fifty-five letters written by William Clark, dated between 1792 and 1811, most of
                    them addressed to his brother Jonathan and all but four only recently rediscovered. Clark was no
                    belletrist. His spelling and grammar were eccentric, and his style was studiously matter-of-fact,
                    while gaps in the correspondence damage continuity. But James J. Holmberg has edited the letters
                    painstakingly, and his accompanying remarks and extensive notes streamline the collection and
                    enhance its value considerably.
            While only eight letters relate to the transcontinental expedition itself (all but one of them new),
                    they supply lost details, and additional letters illuminate Clark's further dealings with
                    members of the expedition. They provide fresh evidence of Lewis's troubled state of mind in
                    1809 and reinforce the probability that his mysterious death in 
                        Tennessee
                     resulted from suicide. And there are revealing and tragic glimpses of York,
                    Clark's slave, who accompanied him to the Pacific. Afterwards, York's desire to
                    remain with his enslaved wife in 
                        Kentucky
                     and his pride and "notion about freedom" (p. 183) created
                    difficulties with Clark, earning him both a "Severe trouncing" and a spell of jail
                    in 1809 (p. 201).
            Indeed, slave management runs as a thread through the letters, which mirror the views of the day.
                    Clark regarded slaves as chattels, to work, hire out, or sell at will. Not without compassion, he
                    took measures to ensure slaves did not "Suffer when they have become infirm" (p.
                    251), but he regarded them as "Sleepy creatures" (p. 193) in need of occasional
                    flogging. Similarly, Clark's eagerness to turn every opportunity to pecuniary advantage
                    faithfully reflects his class and time. Within months of arriving in Saint Louis, he was assessing
                    the profitability of lead mines, salt licks, and prairie land and planning to ship trade goods from
                    the east to exploit local shortages. In 1809 he purchased a town lot "best Situated
                    … for Commerce and Storehouses" (p. 189) and established the 
                        Missouri
                     Fur Company. His activities exemplify the association of public service, economic
                    enterprise, and territorial development.
            The dispossession of the Indian was one inevitable consequence, and Clark himself helped liquidate
                    the Osage title to land in 1808 "fer a verry Small Sum" (p. 154). That said,
                    historians familiar with Clark's detailed reports to the secretary of war will find little
                    new about his important role in brokering peace between different groups  of Indians and the United States and in handling the growing native
                    unrest in the years before and during the War of 1812. What this book does provide is useful
                    vignettes of life on the upper 
                        Mississippi
                     in the early nineteenth century and a sharper picture of Clark and his family that
                    calls for a new biography. Coming as they do within years of the Lewis and Clark bicentennial, these
                    letters cannot fail to excite interest.
            JOHN SUGDEN, Cumbria, England, is author of Tecurnseh, A Life (1998) and Blue Jacket, Warrior of the Shawnees
                    (2000).
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Tennessee
                         Frontiers: Three Regions in Transition. By John R. Finger. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2001. Pp. xxiii, 382. Illustrations, maps, essay on sources,
                    index. $39.95.)
            
               
                  
                            Tennessee
                         Frontiers is one of the volumes in the History of the Trans-Appalachian
                    Frontier series from Indiana University Press. Some readers might question the wisdom of a series
                    devoted to the study of American frontiers in this post-Turnerian age, and University of 
                        Tennessee
                     historian John R. Finger addresses this issue head on, making a good case for the
                    utility of a frontier framework for understanding the Anglicization of the region now encompassed by
                    the state of 
                        Tennessee
                    . Finger finds some of Frederick Jackson Turner's insights,
                    "especially his suggestion of certain recurring patterns in the sequence of settlement
                        zones,'' useful in explaining the transition of the 
                        Tennessee
                     area from American Indian dominance to Euro-American control (p. xviii). According to
                    Finger, 
                        Tennessee
                     experienced several overlapping frontiers between the seventeenth and nineteenth
                    centuries, with those of'land takmg" and "market making" (the
                    development of a market economy) being of particular importance. Finger argues two major themes:
                    that opportunity in the form of land drove settlers into the region and that a marked tension
                    between local autonomy and central authority characterized 
                        Tennessee
                     in this formative period.
            Finger, the author of two monographs on the eastern Cherokees, incorporates Indians into the story
                    throughout the book and emphasizes that "Native American adaptability and creativity amid
                    changing circumstances is one of the great underappreciated themes of frontier history" (p.
                    7). Indians such as the Cherokees, Chickasaws, Creeks, and Shawnees are portrayed by Finger as real
                    people, who disagreed with one another while sometimes impeding Euro-American expansion and
                    sometimes assisting it through warfare, treaties, and trade. Finger also pays notable attention to
                    the diverse physical environment of 
                        Tennessee
                     and the ways that nature shaped human actions while simultaneously being altered by
                    settlers.
            The bulk of the book follows a narrative format, with chapter-length excursions into the
                    "social fabric" and the "frontier economy"  of late eighteenth-century 
                        Tennessee
                    , and the key events of colonial and early national 
                        Tennessee
                     are highlighted. Topics appearing in prominent roles include treaty negotiations
                    between Indians and Euro-Americans, land cessions by Indians, the American Revolution, violent
                    conflicts between Indians and settlers, land speculation and political intrigue, the development of
                    a market economy, the transition to statehood, settlement of the western district bordering the 
                        Mississippi
                     River, and American hegemony created by Indian removal in the 1830s. The expected
                    characters of early 
                        Tennessee
                     history make frequent appearances, and Finger is to be commended for bringing these
                    people to life and demonstrating how the choices they made affected the eventual outcome and
                    development of the region.
            Although the book does not include endnotes and is meant primarily for a general and undergraduate
                    audience, there is a helpful essay on sources at the end of each chapter. Numerous illustrations and
                    maps add to the work's usefulness as a reference. Readers will find 
                  
                            Tennessee
                         Frontiers to be free of academic jargon yet analytically sophisticated.
                    Students of the 
                        Tennessee
                     region or the Old Southwest will do well to start their research with this book.
            GREG O'BRIEN is associate professor of history at
                    the University of Southern 
                        Mississippi
                    , Hattiesburg, and recently published Choctaws in a Revolutionary Age,
                        1750-1830 (2002).
         
         
            
               Changing Works: Visions of a Lost Agriculture. By Douglas Harper. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 2001. Pp. xi, 302. Illustrations, tables, notes, references, index.
                    $35.00.)
            Sociologist Douglas Harper has created a sensitive portrait of what he calls a "lost
                    agriculture," a cooperative, animal-powered, craft-based mode of farming that flourished in
                    the middle decades of the twentieth century and that has now been eclipsed by an individualistic,
                    industrialized farming. Echoing many critics of contemporary agriculture, he finds the
                    "changing works" culture superior to modern farming in many respects, especially
                    environmentally and socially. His is one more voice in a growing chorus of critics who call for a
                    reassessment of the direction being taken by today's corporate, increasingly large-scale
                    agriculture.
            Harper's methodology stems from the discipline of sociology, not history, so for historians
                    (this reviewer included) it is difficult to evaluate. Using such concepts as "photo
                    elicitation," he constructs "visual narratives" using the rich archive of
                    the Standard Oil of 
                        New Jersey
                     (SONJ) photo collection. (Though it is clear that the SONJ archive is superb, it is not
                    clear why only this collection was used.) The geographic focus is on the dairying country of
                    northern 
                        New York
                     State. Harper showed the SONJ photos to about a dozen people who began farming in the
                    1930s and subsequently lived through the transition, and asked them how the old system worked.
            
            The result is captivating. The photos themselves are evocative pieces of art, and the
                    old-timers' explanations of the pictures make for fascinating reading. The give-and-take
                    between interviewees, often husband and wife, is also revealing. The combination of images,
                    transcribed interviews, and Harper's commentary shows how the "changing
                    works" system relied on cooperative labor. Small-scale dairying was diversified, and the
                    farm produced both animal feed and manure for the fields in a self-renewing cycle. The ''craft'' system
                    encompassed a universe of nuanced, detailed knowledge, from the quirks of individual animals to a
                    carefully gauged use of individual fields. While Harper clearly admires the old system more than the
                    new, he acknowledges the pitfalls of romanticizing the past, so he does not gloss over his
                    subjects' ambivalence about the hard work, the lack of gender parity, and the economic
                    struggle.
            He raises compelling questions about the cost of agricultural modernization. Innovations such as bulk
                    milk tanks, self-propelled corn choppers, free stall barns, and milking parlors eliminated limits on
                    herd size and reduced labor requirements. Dairy herds are bigger and more productive now (even as
                    consumption of dairy products has stagnated). Modern dairies are messier and smellier. Harper also
                    argues that modernization has been a factor in the rupture of neighborly social ties, the divorce of
                    food production from consumption, and a rise in pollution. It has intensified the accelerating
                    treadmill of deepening financial and time commitments for the farmers who remain. These are not new
                    observations, but they are stated here with special clarity.
            More attention to the impact of the New Deal would have been welcome; since many of these farmers
                    started out in the 1930s, it seems strange that New Deal programs do not enter into the discussion
                    at all. It would also have been instructive to examine more closely the impact of consumer culture,
                    as Hal Barron did in Mixed Harvest (1997). The book is marred throughout by
                    grammatical and spelling errors—a pity since otherwise it is beautifully produced.
                    Overall, though, this is a valuable work that explains much to a curious traveler passing through
                    any American dairying country. The landscape is changing fast, and this book helps explain why.
            SALLY McMURRY is professor of history
                    at Pennsylvania State University, State College. She is an agricultural historian and author of Transforming Rural Life: Dairying Families and Agricultural Change,
                        1820–1885 (1995).
         
         
            
               German Pioneers on the American Frontier: The Wagners in 
                            Texas
                         and 
                            Illinois
                        . By Andreas V. Reichstein. (Denton: University of 
                        North Texas
                     Press, 2001. Pp. xii, 303. Maps, illustrations, appendices, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $32.95.)
            Julius Wagner left Baden, Germany, in 1847 as part of a group known as the
                    "Darmstädters," or "The Forty," that established the
                    utopian community of Bettina in 
                        Texas
                     based on communistic principles.  Julius's
                    brother Wilhelm followed him to the New World in 1851 in the wake of the 1848 revolutions that had
                    attempted but failed to reform German political and social life. Julius participated in one of the
                    attempts to achieve a utopian society in America, while Wilhelm founded a newspaper and printing
                    business in 
                  Freeport, Illinois
               . Their lives and those of their descendants are presented in
                        German Pioneers on the American Frontier against the broader spectrum of
                    European and American social history.
            Andreas V. Reichstein found letters from members of the Wagner family while researching his 1981
                    book, The Rise of the Lone Star. This correspondence, other documents, and
                    interviews Reichstein conducted with family members cover the period from the beginning of the
                    migration process to the present state of the Wagner family. The work treats the hopes,
                    expectations, and the realities of migration. The author attempts to expand the subject of his work
                    beyond the stories of the two men themselves to the broader theme of acculturation and assimilation.
            Julius's life in 
                        Texas
                     is well documented, showing his participation in the intellectual history of the
                    communist movement and connections to the highest level of political thought in Germany. Very
                    interesting is the link to the Adelsverein founded by Count Solms-Braunfels, who purchased land to
                    establish a German settlement in the New World. As Reichstein provides an overview of life in early
                    German 
                        Texas
                    , it is clear that women had the hardest lot: Julius's wife Emilie appears from
                    her letters to have suffered from permanent culture shock.
            The contrast with the even more politically involved Wilhelm is useful in order to see the divergent
                    directions of two sibling immigrants and their families in the U.S. ARer participating in the failed
                    revolution of 1848, Wilhelm was persecuted for his involvement and was forced to emigrate. Wilhelm
                    remained more politically active also in the us.
            Subsequent generations of the family had much to contend with also. Anti-German feeling during World
                    War I forced the German-language newspaper founded by Wilhelm to close, but his descendants
                    developed a flourishing printing business. Their family ties to Germany loosened, as did ties
                    between the 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Texas
                     branches. However, the work ethic survived in both groups.
            Julius's great-grandson, the successful businessman Walter Paepcke, founded the Aspen, 
                        Colorado
                    , cultural center with its Bauhaus tradition. For its opening, Paepcke organized a grand
                    celebration of Goethe that attempted to reaffirm German humanism in the American context. Julius
                    Wagner's descendants maintained the German tie, including the language, since their
                    connection to Germany was to the high culture, not just to familiar forms of socializing. The other
                    branch of the family, Wilhelm's descendants, abandoned both their links to Germany and
                    language, assimilating to the American  mainstream. Both cousins
                    were successful businessmen in 
                        Texas
                    —one of them founded a hardware business that still operates. "They
                    contributed their social and ethnic backgrounds into this new society, thus changing it
                    too" (p. 204). Reichstein says that it is not a simple melting pot story: 
                        Assimilation and acculturation are not contradictory or exclusive terms. They rather describe
                            two ways of integrating
                     (p. 205).
            Reichstein provides very extensive notes and bibliographic references. There is one error in the
                    book, and it relates to Indiana. 
                        New Harmony
                     was not founded by Robert Owen but by the German millennialist, George Rapp (p. 26).
            The author has clearly shown the relevance of family history for an understanding of history in
                    general, and it makes a fascinating story. The book is a significant contribution to work on
                    migration studies.
            GILES R. HOYT is professor of German at Indiana
                    University-Purdue University, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and director of the Max Kade German-American Research and Resource Center.
         
         
            
               Communities of Journalism: A History of American Newspapers and Their Readers.
                    By David Paul Nord. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 2001. Pp. xi, 293. Notes, tables, appendices, index. $29.95.)
            This collection of twelve essays showcases some of the best work in journalism history. The range of
                    journals in which they originally appeared—from the Journal of American
                        History and American Quarterly to Communication
                    Research and Journalism Quarterly— attests to the breadth of ideas
                    they explore. Although David Paul Nord revised the essays only slightly (they were written between
                    the mid-1980s and mid-1990s) for Communities of Journalism, the introduction
                    grounds them in current scholarly literature.
            Nord looks at communication and community from two vantage points: how newspapers produce meaning,
                    and how readers comprehend that meaning. For both perspectives, context is the key. In
                    "Teleology and News: The Religious Roots of American Journalism, 1630-1730," he
                    emphasizes how the Puritans' understanding of divine providence colored seemingly secular
                    news reports. In "Working-Class Readers: Family, Community, and Reading in Late
                    Nineteenth-Century America," Nord shows how spending on printed matter varied with region,
                    ethnicity, and family structure, among other things.
            The readers figure centrally in all of Nord's essays, even those that emphasize production.
                    Journalism histories have traditionally featured accounts about publishers' intentions and,
                    at most, have made crude inferences about their readers. Nord, however, was among the first
                    journalism historians to consider seriously how readers perceived the printed matter they
                    encountered. These inquiries have  been influenced by studies of
                    literacy, history of the book, and literary scholars' reader-response theory. For data,
                    Nord has gleaned insights from lists of subscribers, readers' published letters,
                    readers' unpublished exchanges with editors, and census returns.
            Although Indiana does not figure directly in Nord's essays, four of his studies focus on
                    nearby 
                        Chicago
                     from the 1870s to the Progressive era. 
                        Chicago
                    , in fact, is his laboratory for exploring how metropolitan daily newspapers expressed
                    different conceptions of urban community. Some, such as the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune and the Times, saw cities as amalgamations of private
                    interests; accordingly, they reported a smorgasbord of disconnected news items. The 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Daily News, in contrast, practiced a style of journalism that emphasized the
                    interdependence of urban life. Nord links these varying editorial philosophies to
                    publishers' business strategies and, more importantly, to their involvement in municipal
                    reform. In 
                        Chicago
                    , as in other cities, reform movements fared best when at least one newspaper was
                    devoted to an idea of public community that emphasized collective interests.
            Almost without exception, the essays in Communities of Journalism attain a balance
                    that is rare in the scholarship of journalism history. The studies attend to the nuts and bolts of
                    newspaper production while also venturing outward to engage the big issues of social and cultural
                    history; they offer generalizations that would satisfy most social scientists, yet support them with
                    detail that is characteristic of a humanist's work; and they tell complex stories in a
                    precise, nuanced style that is never so subtle or technical that it confounds meaning.
            RICHARD B. KIELBOWICZ, associate professor of
                    communication at the University of Washington, Seattle, is currently studying early
                    telecommunication and its effects on journalism and public policy.
         
         
            
               Don't Get Above Your Raisin': Country Music and the Southern
                        Working Class. By Bill C. Malone. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 2002. Pp. xvi, 392. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical and discographical
                    suggestions, indices. $34.95.)
            In a world in which celebrated performers such as Garth Brooks and Shania Twain dominate popular
                    perceptions of country musicians, students often forget to look past their glamour to recognize the
                    sources that gave rise to and sustained the country music tradition. In this study from the
                    University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, Bill C. Malone offers a new appreciation of a type of music often dismissed as
                    unrehed and redneck.
            Malone is certainly no novice in the world of country music. Not only is he an accomplished musician,
                    but he has devoted much of his life to understanding the meaning behind the music, and this volume
                         may well be his finest interpretation to date. Students of
                    country music have long acknowledged the complex forces that underlie the melodies. Malone reveals
                    the diversities of "residence, religion, occupation, ethnicity, and even politics"
                    that characterize those who listen to country music (p. viii). Malone argues that the musicians and
                    their fans, far from being a monolithic group, may represent the wonderful diversity that serves as
                    one of America's greatest strengths better than their counterparts in any other art form.
            He skillfully analyzes the connection between the music and Protestant evangelicalism and the concept
                    of "rambling men," as well as the centrality of politics and dancing to the world
                    of country music. While he is careful to demonstrate that the genre is far from homogenous, he
                    reminds us that some consistent themes endure. Perhaps foremost among them is the schism between the
                    appeals of home life and Christian propriety versus the ecstasies of hedonism, a theme that
                    continues to be a central component of the music's appeal.
            Malone's research is as meticulous as his narrative is passionate. Readers are treated to
                    first-person recollections of many important figures from the past fifty years of musical
                    development. Malone does not merely report; his interpretation reveals a lifelong immersion in the
                    music's message, which began on a cotton tenant farm in Depression-era 
                        Texas
                    . The result is a celebration of country music as culture, as dear to neo-Confederates
                    as it is to the teenage fans of 
                        Alabama
                     and Billy Ray Cyrus.
            A comprehensive bibliographical essay along with a general index and a song-title index increase the
                    usefulness of this volume. Malone also includes photographs of famous country music performers. For
                    their fans and for students of the southern plain folk this book demands a careful reading. For
                    those who do not harbor an affection for country music, it is certain to stimulate a new
                    appreciation of a misunderstood art form.
            SAMUEL C. HYDE, JR., is Leon Ford
                    Endowed Chair, director of the Center for Southeast 
                        Louisiana
                     Studies, and associate professor of history at Southeastern 
                        Louisiana
                     University, 
                        Hammond
                    . He is the author of Pistols and Politics: The Dilemma of Democracy in 
                            Louisiana
                        's 
                            Florida
                         Parishes, 1810–1899 (1996) and edited Plain Folk of
                        the South Revisited (1997), as well as the forthcoming Recasting a Sunbelt
                        Revolution: The Historical Progression of the Civil Rights Struggle in the Gulf South,
                        1866–2000 (2003).
         
         
            
               Somebody's Darling: Essays on the Civil War. By 
                        Kent
                     Gramm. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2002. Pp. xv, 190. Notes, index. $29.95.)
            In his first paragraph, 
                        Kent
                     Gramm states that this book "is for any reader who thinks about
                    life," (p. xi) yet the 175 pages that follow seem to focus upon death. To be sure, death is
                    a part of life, and the soldiers and civilians who endured the Civil War came to know much about
                    both in the years 1861-1865. Gramm's selection  of
                    topics, poetry, and songs allows the reader to form a literary relationship with these people, whom
                    he calls "Somebody's Darlings." As he argues, "the more we
                    experience what the War was like, the more uncomfortable we should become, if we
                    are not depraved" (p. xiv). This was an unusual book to read, because it asks whether we
                    really can come to understand the emotions, passions, and deeds of people who lived in the Civil War
                    era.
            In any event, Gramm has assembled an array of interesting topics. In "The 
                        Gettysburg
                     Nobody Knows," we try to imagine Robert E. Lee, as well as others, as
                    somebody's darling beyond what Americans saw in the movie 
                        
                            Gettysburg
                        
                     (1993). In his chapter "American Iliad," Gramm attempts to make the case
                    that we can only understand the Civil War in the context of "a larger world" (p.
                    48). He moves deftly to form literary images of the "Wilderness," both the battle
                    and the concept. In "The Real War," he targets the famed words of Walt Whitman,
                    showing how significant the romantic's characterization of war was and still is for
                    historians, including the modern-day Civil War scholar James McPherson. "Nothing but
                    Omnipotence" reminds us that there really is some truth to the old Soviet joke that while
                    the future is certain, the past is always unpredictable. The latter half of the book is devoted to
                    "A Soldier's Grave" and "A Soldier's Bones,"
                    which focus upon the combatant's imagination and how historians dispute the degree to which
                    we can understand him. In "Face to Face," Gramm discusses what the generation of
                    Civil War citizens has become for us.
            This volume emphasizes the relationship between the drama of the Civil War and its results, which
                    conjure up distinct historical features that we continue to reconceptualize and try to understand in
                    our modern day. There is much to ponder from reading this volume, and Civil War enthusiasts would
                    benefit greatly from taking a step away from traditional approaches to the conflict to gain the
                    different perspective of the war offered by Gramm's selections.
            Gramm's unique narrative is sure to please those looking for something beyond drums and
                    trumpets. It is to be hoped that his poetic prose in giving a voice to the unwritten aspects of the
                    war will attract the large reading audience Somebody's Darling so richly
                    deserves.
            STEPHEN D. ENGLE teaches at 
                        Florida
                     Atlantic University, Boca Raton, and is currently working on Lincoln and the Union
                    governors for his next book.
         
         
            
               Building an American Identity: Pattern Book Homes & Communities,
                    1870-1900. By Linda E. Smeins. (Walnut Creek, Calif.: AltaMira Press, 1999. Pp. 335.
                    Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. Clothbound, $52.00; paperbound,
                    $24.95.)
            In her book Building an American Identity Linda E. Smeins sets out to explore the
                    evolution of pattern book designs for American homes in the last quarter of the nineteenth century,
                    to examine the  assertions in many pattern books that they were
                    providing "American" homes for their clients, to evaluate the extent to which
                    pattern books promoted development of idealized suburban homes for the middle class, and to
                    investigate the battle to influence architectural taste for the home-building public.
            The most compelling subject is that of the pattern book designs themselves and how they changed
                    between 1876 and 1900. Smeins shows the commanding influence exerted by the carpenter-builders who
                    published books providing line drawings of elevations and floor plans. They sold them to potential
                    homeowners and local builders who desired guidance on fashionable and practical designs. After the
                    Civil War, advances in printing, rail transportation links, and development of a consumer culture
                    led to an explosion in pattern book publications aimed both at the middle class and the working
                    class. The most popular publishers were Robert Shopell, the Palliser Brothers, and George F. Barber.
            Beginning in the 1870s, the Queen Anne style made its appearance in both the establishment journal
                        American Architect and in pattern books published by practicing architects
                    such as Henry Hudson Holly. Soon the nonarchitect majority of pattern book authors seized upon the
                    new fashion, and it became an exuberant, eclectic mixture of medieval and classical massing and
                    details. Despite efforts by the American Institute of Architects to shift popular taste to a
                    simplified house based on American colonial antecedents, the Queen Anne swept the country, bolstered
                    by multiple editions prepared by the pattern book authors.
            Smeins suggests that most of the market for Queen Anne houses was in suburbs, and this was certainly
                    true in the East. However, in the Midwest and West, these expansive houses appeared both in existing
                    cities and in small towns, in the houses of prosperous farmers, and in the countless new towns
                    developed in the Plains, Rocky Mountain West, and the West coast.
            Of greatest value to an Indiana reader will be Smeins's review of pattern book designs and
                    her careful explanation of changes in style. Those familiar with residences of the period in Hoosier
                    cities and towns will realize that pattern books, not local architects, were the source of many
                    well-known designs. Perhaps the book's primary contribution is to architectural history and
                    historic preservation, documenting the importance of pattern books as a source for house design and
                    exploring the changes that occurred in popular tastes in the late nineteenth century.
            JAMES A. GLASS is director of the graduate program in
                    historic preservation and professor of architecture at Ball State University, 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana. He has worked as a historian and consultant in the preservation field in
                    Indiana and 
                        Maryland
                     and as deputy state historic preservation officer for Indiana.
         
         
         
            
               Hallelujah Lads & Lasses: Remaking the Salvation Army in America,
                    1880-1930. By Lillian Taiz. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 2001. Pp. xiv, 239. Illustrations, appendix, tables, notes, index. Clothbound,
                    $39.95; paperbound, $16.95.)
            Ask people today what the Salvation Army is, and you are bound to get a few stock answers. Most will
                    point out that the Army raises money for the poor, especially during Christmastime, when bellringing
                    members stand on city streetcorners to collect alms in red kettles. Others will recognize that the
                    Army commonly provides emergency shelter and social services for the urban homeless and, during
                    times of disaster, assumes a leading role in organizing public relief. Few, however, realize that
                    the Army is an urban religious movement whose history stretches back to the last part of the
                    nineteenth century and, more importantly, that originally it practiced few of the social roles that
                    so many associate with it today.
            In Hallelujah Lads & Lasses Lillian Taiz undertakes the task of explaining
                    how the Army developed its modern identity. In a compact account of the first fifty years of the
                    history of the Salvation Army in America, Taiz argues two basic points. Her first is that the early
                    success of the Army lay in its ability to attract city laborers by appropriating aspects of street
                    theater and popular culture. Membership rolls swelled as Army officers crafted religious services
                    and outreach efforts that featured the boisterous parades, loud pageants, brass bands, maudlin
                    plays, and songs that constituted so much of the culture of leisure for poor people in cities.
                    Central to what Taiz calls the formation of this "working-class religious
                    institution" was also the distinctive opportunity for leadership and service provided to
                    women who joined the Army.
            By the beginning of the twentieth century, however, the character of the organization had changed
                    profoundly. Taiz's second major point is that the Army grew more restrained and focused on
                    a mission of social charity after the early 1900s. Seeking at once to respond to urban poverty by
                    creating programs to supply housing, jobs, and food and to appear more respectable to middle-class
                    politicians, the Army's officers reordered their priorities: money and time were to be
                    devoted to constructing long-term reform efforts, while church services and evangelical efforts were
                    to become more disciplined. Gone was much of the earlier emphasis on winning souls for Christ by
                    emulating popular entertainment. The ultimate result, Taiz maintains, was the Salvation Army known
                    by so many today: a philanthropic institution largely shorn of its roots in working-class culture.
            Taiz offers a fine portrait of the Salvation Army's evolution, but she leaves several
                    important questions hanging. The first is about the relationship between the Army and practices of
                    race. Taiz notes that the movement was unsuccessful in recruiting and retaining African Americans;
                    at one point she implies that the problem, in the city of 
                        Cleveland
                    , was a function of housing segregation (pp. 20-21). 
                    In another instance she writes that, unlike the Army, the Azusa Street revival, a
                    turn-of-the-century biracial Pentecostal movement, successfully incorporated physical aspects of
                    popular theater (p. 163). One wonders whether the Army was like other urban reform movements that
                    practiced subtle forms of racial discrimination or understood "respectability" as
                    a privilege of white citizens.
            A second question is how the range of modern technologies increasingly available to urban religious
                    entrepreneurs in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries affected the organization. Much
                    of the inventiveness of Taiz's book comes from her effort to show how the Army drew from a
                    marketplace of religious ideas and forms; one wonders how Army leaders responded to growth of radio
                    and the railroad and to changes in print and photographic technologies. Similarly, one wants to know
                    more about why the Salvation Army came to avoid popular entertainment when other successful
                    evangelicals seeking middle-class audiences — Carry Nation and Billy Sunday, for
                    example— embraced its methods. Still, Taiz offers scholarly and general readers alike a
                    compelling and valuable portrait of the Salvation Army and more generally of urban revivalism.
            JOHN M. GIGGIE is assistant professor of history at the
                    University of 
                        Texas
                     at San Antonio. He is currently working on a manuscript entitled, "Faith in
                    the South: The Transformation of Black Religion in the 
                        Mississippi
                     Delta, 1875-1917." He is coeditor of both Faith in the Market:
                        Religion and the Rise of Urban Culture (2002) and the forthcoming The Limits
                        and Liberties of Markets: Race, Markets and the Formation of Modern Identities.
            
         
         
            
               The Geographical Imagination in America, 1880-1950. By Susan Schulten. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 2001. Pp. x, 319. Maps, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $40.00.)
            According to Susan Schulten, the American view of the world changed drastically in the twentieth
                    century. There were a number of reasons for this: the nation moved gradually from isolationism to
                    interventionism from the time of the Spanish-American War to the Second World War; maps and atlases
                    became widely available with changing cartographic technology; the National Geographic
                        Society Magazine popularized the study of exotic lands; and the study of geography in
                    school moved from rote memorization of facts to learning about natural resources and world trade
                    patterns. One institution that did not contribute greatly to the escape from "geographic
                    isolation" was the Association of American Geographers (AAG), the organization of academic
                    geographers founded in 1904, which was, according to Schulten, elitist and devoted to environmental
                    determinism until after World War II.
            The revolution in the mental map of Americans came about only after cartographers abandoned the
                    Mercator map projection, which portrayed America as protected behind the moat of a gigantic  world sea comprising the Atlantic, Pacific, and Arctic oceans.
                    It was only in the late 1930s that Rand McNally, America's major mapmaker, and the National
                    Geographic Society cautiously abandoned the Mercator projection for others that represented the size
                    of these seas more realistically. American involvement in World War II brought with it innovative
                    maps in popular magazines and newspapers in the early 1940s created by George Renner at Rand McNally
                    and Richard Edes Harrison, who placed the North Pole and Arctic Ocean at the center of maps as a
                    "new mediterranean," which illustrated North America's spatial proximity
                    to and interdependence with Europe and Asia. Thus, a revolution in the geographical imagination, as
                    well as global events, prepared the American public for a new habit of internationalism after 1945.
                    Fear of Soviet expansionism reinforced the sense of North America's geographic
                    vulnerability in the aviation age with the onset of the Cold War in the late 1940s.
            Schulten uses an abundance of maps and photographs to enhance her argument. My only reservation about
                    the book is her characterization of the AAG as Social Darwinist and elitist. There is truth in this,
                    but there were voices among this group (those of J. Russell Smith and Isaiah Bowman, e.g.) arguing
                    the importance of environmental influence (ecology) and rejecting the crude determinism of Ellen
                    Semple and Ellsworth 
                        Huntington
                    . Nonetheless, this study is crafted well for both academic and popular audiences.
            BRUCE BIGELOW, associate professor of geography at 
                        Butler
                     University, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , is working on the cultural and political geography of Indiana during the Civil
                War
         
         
            
               Breaking the Heart of the World: Woodrow Wilson and the Fight for the League of
                        Nations. By John Milton Cooper, Jr. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Cambridge
                     University Press, 2001. Pp. ix, 454. Notes, illustrations, tables, note on sources,
                    index. $35.00.)
            In his novel Nineteen Nineteen, John Dos Passos wrote that Woodrow Wilson
                    "strained every nerve of his body and brain" during the fight over the League of
                    Nations. According to John Milton Cooper, Jr., in his exhaustively researched and well-written
                    analysis of these events, Wilson's health is the key to understanding how the fight ended,
                    with the Senate rejecting membership in the nascent international organization. Following the
                    interpretations of physician Edwin A. Weinstein and Arthur Link, Cooper argues convincingly that
                    even before Wilson's stroke in October 1919, his poor health affected his performance in
                    the fight. The neurological and psychological effects of the stroke made any compromise problematic,
                    if not impossible. The "cerebrovascular accident" made him obstinate and resistant
                    to a modus vivendi, whereas in the early years of his administration he had shown a facility for
                    compromise. Ironically, as Wilson's physical  health
                    improved, his handling of the League fight deteriorated; he experienced moments of
                    "euphoria" that convinced him he had greater power than he did, and he then issued
                    bombastic statements precluding compromise.
            The struggle revolved around Article X of the League covenant, which imposed, according to Wilson, a
                    "moral obligation" on member nations to uphold the territorial integrity and
                    political independence of other members. Senate Republicans, whether "strong" or
                    "mild" reservationists, wanted that provision attenuated so as not to limit
                    America's sovereignty. The Irreconcilables wanted nothing to do with the League, with or
                    without Article X. To Wilson, Article X was the heart of the covenant; to weaken it was to
                    eviscerate the League. From the president's viewpoint, the only way to secure peace was
                    through collective security, whereas the GOP reservationists stressed pursuing great-power
                    nationalism, strengthening international law, and establishing a world court. With the parties so
                    far apart, Cooper rightfully questions whether compromise was possible.
            The factions and characters in the fight are well described by Cooper: Wilson, taking his case to the
                    American people in his fateful speaking tour of 1919; Henry Cabot Lodge, willing to contemplate
                    joining the League but concerned foremost with protecting the prerogatives of the legislature and
                    keeping Republicans united; and William E. Borah, the leading Irreconcilable, making eloquent and
                    learned appeals that America should preserve tradition and avoid involvement with Old World rows
                    that would lead the country to perdition.
            According to Cooper, the League fight was the greatest debate on foreign policy in the twentieth
                    century— nothing comparable has happened since— and he commends
                    Wilson's effort to try to educate the public on the issues. Though Cooper laments that
                    there has been little effort by politicians since then to enlighten the public on foreign policy,
                    this is hardly the case. There was a "great debate" in the early 1950s on the
                    nature of America's Cold War commitment, and another occurred during the Vietnam War. Of
                    course, there has been little debate over America's role in the world since the end of the
                    Cold War, with the consensus being on the side of interventionism and only isolated voices on the
                    left and right expressing doubts. This is in stark contrast to the national dispute that occurred
                    after World War I.
            I have one other criticism of an otherwise excellent book: the author is too much on the side of the
                    internationalists of the twentieth century and dismisses too readily the isolationists'
                    prescient view that, by becoming entangled in the disputes of the Old World, the United States
                    risked distorting its own republican institutions. This is a danger today as well. To uphold
                    worldwide commitments that internationalists have coaxed Americans into accepting, the state has
                    become ever larger and more powerful and thus susceptible to Lord Acton's dictum that
                    "Power tends to corrupt, and absolute power  corrupts
                    absolutely"— a fact that would break the hearts of the Founding Fathers.
            TRACY S. UEBELHOER is adjunct instructor of history at the
                    University of Southern Indiana, 
                        Evansville
                    , and at the Community College of Indiana, 
                        Evansville
                    .
         
         
            
               Anaconda: Labor, Community, and Culture in 
                            Montana
                        's Smelter City. By Laurie Mercier. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 2001. Pp. xi, 300. Map, tables, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    Clothbound, $49.95; paperbound, $24.95.)
            With painstaking attention to ethnic, gender, and class dynamics, and utilizing rich archival and
                    oral history sources, Laurie Mercier has produced a finely written and richly excavated study of the
                    century-long relationship between the powerful Anaconda Copper Mining Company (ACM) and the local
                    working-class community it helped create. Mercier examines community unionism in this company town
                    as it turned into a "union city" and later aspired to become a deindustrialized
                    tourist Mecca. Though Mercier covers the full history of Anaconda, from its rise in the
                    1880s— fulfilling the ambitions of smelter-builder Marcus Daly— to the final
                    closure of the world's largest smelting operation in 1980, her focus is on the post-World
                    War II period and on community unionism.
            Community unionism at Anaconda was characterized both by a strong sense of equality and justice and
                    by discriminatory gender and racial attitudes that ran deep through Anaconda's white ethnic
                    and mostly Catholic population. Mercier is highly sensitive to how gender affected working-class
                    community-building and to the obstacles that gender discrimination created for the
                    community's unions, especially Local 117 of the International Union of Mine, Mill, and
                    Smelter Workers (IUMMSW).
            Mercier admirably combines an analysis of such varied topics as foodways, holidays, leisure, domestic
                    abuse, parental authority, juvenile delinquency, schools, masculinity, and environmental politics
                    with more traditional union, business, community, and institutional history. She merges her various
                    levels of analysis elegantly and judiciously: the defeat of the left-leaning IUMMSW in 1959 is
                    credited in part to the "elevation of masculinity" and the exclusion of women from
                    union affairs (hence the rise of a women-dominated anti-red campaign as early as the 1940s); the
                    anticommunist movement of the Cold War era is linked to religious conservatism and anxieties about
                    family disintegration; unionism begins to erode in the 1950s in part because of growing emphasis on
                    disposable income, consumer goods, and leisure.
            The coming of the Cold War eroded Anaconda's working-class community and ethos as
                    competition between the IUMMSW— expelled from the Congress of Industrial Organizations
                    (CIO) for its left-leaning politics in 1950— and the CIO's United Steel Workers
                    of  America divided the community's workers for two
                    decades. Yet the coup de grace came in the late 1970s, and most dramatically in September 1980, when
                    the smelter's new owner, the Atlantic Richfield Corporation (ARCO) regained ACM's
                    Chilean mines, a profitable alternative to Anaconda and Butte copper. Unwilling to invest in its now
                    inefficient and outdated Anaconda facility (made so by years of poor management under ACM), trying
                    to escape what it considered onerous environmental regulations, and obtaining favorable tax
                    treatments for a plant shutdown, ARCO finally announced the closure of the smelter.
            Mercier's account of the rise and fall of community unionism in Anaconda is well written,
                    well researched, and well argued. My one regret lies in the book's failure to exploit its
                    oral history sources more thoroughly. Women's voices, so central to many of
                    Mercier's arguments, are sparsely quoted. Moreover, though the book concentrates heavily on
                    the Cold War years, Anaconda's left is surprisingly mute. We learn about anticommunists and
                    defenders of the IUMMSW, but the author says little about local socialists, communists, and
                    "fellow travelers." The author also neglects Anaconda's corporate elite.
                    Though Mercier does not want to "personalize the corporation or demonize its
                    managers"— preferring instead to make the greater point that the company was
                    merely following the logic of domestic and international capitalism— it would have been
                    useful to hear the voices of local and distant corporate managers pondering the economic fate of
                    this community (and not merely in press releases or public speeches).
            Still, this book is a very strong one; it is a wonderful trek through post-World War II western
                    industrial and labor history, a territory still little explored by scholars. Its rich evidentiary
                    foundations and incisively crafted arguments make it a joy to read, and its subtle synthesis of
                    various levels of analysis— domestic, community, institutional, national, and
                    international— constitutes an instructional manual of sorts for writing the history of
                    the twentieth-century industrial American West.
            GERALD ZAHAVI is professor of history at the State
                    University of 
                        New York
                     at 
                        Albany
                     and the author of Workers, Managers, and Welfare Capitalism: The
                        Shoemakers and Tanners of Endicott Johnson, 1890-1950 (1988). His current research focuses
                    on the history of General Electric, welfare capitalism, and local and regional studies of labor and
                    communism.
         
         
            
               Serving History in a Changing World: The Historical Society of Pennsylvania in the
                        Twentieth Century. By Sally F. Griffith. ([
                        Philadelphia
                    ]: University of Pennsylvania Press, 2001. Pp. x, 539. Notes, illustrations, index.
                    $59.95.)
            What is a historical society? How has it evolved? What are its characteristics? Where is it headed in
                    this new century? Whose history should it preserve? Using the Historical Society of Pennsylvania as
                         a case study, Sally F. Griffith delves into the history of
                    one of America's most prestigious historical societies in an attempt to answer those
                    questions.
            This is not the first time that the historical society world has been dissected for historical or
                    scientific reasons: Griffith's book joins two recent studies— Kevin
                    Guthrie's The 
                            New York
                         Historical Society: Lessons from One Nonprofit's Long Struggle for
                        Survival (1996) and Jed Bergman's Managing Change in the Nonprofit
                        Sector: Lessons from the Evolution of Five Independent Research Libraries
                    (1996)— both of them funded by the Mellon Foundation in 
                        New York
                    . Their stories are pretty much identical: they tell of elitist, Caucasian clubs of
                    founding families, peopled by avaricious acquirers of objects, documents, and materials of the early
                    days of the republic, to which no real "professional" care was given. The leaders
                    of these societies undertook unfettered buying, selling, and dealing with no oversight and no
                    ethical standards. Indeed, many of the great collections of this country and in Europe were founded
                    with plunder from other countries.
            The late Susan Stitt, a long-time advocate of professional care of collections and prudent
                    management, took office as the first President of the Historical Society of Pennsylvania in January
                    1990. Over an eight-year period she moved the society from its deficit mode into a modern
                    "corporate" model. The changes sometimes prompted resistance from the old
                    leadership. When Stitt insisted on the title of "President," Griffith writes, the
                    board acceded and then "separated membership in the Society from the responsibility of
                    choosing the Board and its officers" (p. 403). When the members got wind of their
                    disenfranchisement, they voted the measure down. The episode showed both the board's
                    isolation from the society's membership and, in the words of one dissenting board member,
                    "'mistrust … [of] the Society's leadership'"
                    (p. 403). (A similar skirmish recently played itself out at the Indiana Historical Society, with the
                    result of power remaining with the members of the Society.)
            Griffith' s book is a welcome scholarly addition to the literature on nonprofit, museum, and
                    historical society management, and stands in contrast to more popular renditions of the museum
                    field, such as Thomas Hoving's Making the Mummies Dance (19931, an
                    entertaining account by the former impresario of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. One wonders,
                    however, how much general appeal it will have beyond the world of museum professionals. It should be
                    read by every museum director and trustee in the country, but beyond that is it too much
                    "inside baseball"? Much of the book recounts the inner dealings of the institution
                    as it moves from one phase to the next and, to an insider, the stories are not only fascinating but
                    recall earlier situations and colleagues in similar scenarios.
            The most important chapter is the last. Entitled "Epilogue: The Predicament of Early
                    Nineteenth-Century Institutions In a Late  Twentieth-Century
                    World it neatly summarizes the global issues facing the museum/historical society field. The author
                    links together and summarizes the questions posed above. Whose history is it, where are historical
                    societies headed, how have they evolved, and more importantly than ever, are they dinosaurs in a
                    twenty-first century world? These are not rhetorical but real questions faced by museum and
                    historical administrators on a daily basis. These institutions no longer resemble the cabinets of
                    curiosities whence they came. The political and economic realities associated with today's
                    evolving environment have radically changed the meaning of "historical society."
                    Those who awaken to "relevance" too slowly will not survive. Those who do survive
                    will operate institutions that bear little resemblance to their ancestors of the Victorian period.
            SALVATORE G. CILELLA, JR., is president
                    and chief executive officer of the Indiana Historical Society, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He has been in the museum field for thirty-three years, having served as CEO for three
                    historical museums, development officer for two, and assistant to the director at one.
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
                    Eric Sandweiss
                
            
               William Henry Harrison: A Bibliography. Compiled by Kenneth R. Stevens. (
                        Westport
                    , Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1998. Pp. xxv, 226. Illustrations, indices.
                    $75.00.)
            This book, Volume 9 in Greenwood's "Presidents of the United States"
                    series, details the available archival, published, and visual sources on the soldier, territorial
                    governor, and ninth president of the United States, who died barely one month after his
                    inauguration. Drawing on the William Henry Harrison Papers Project at the Indiana Historical
                    Society, as well as on the extensive holdings of Indiana University's Lilly Library and
                    other regional repositories, Stevens's book is the first place to which any student of
                    Harrison's career ought to turn in assessing the available historical record on this early
                    Indianan who rose to national political prominence in the antebellum era.
            
               Hoosiers' Honor Roster: The Iron Brigade's 19th Indiana Regiment.
                    By William Thomas Venner. (Shippensburg, Perm.: Burd Street Press, 1999. Pp. 295. Tables,
                    bibliography. Paperbound, $25.00.)
            
               The Flags of the Iron Brigade. By Howard Michael Madaus and Richard H. Zeitlin. (
                        Madison
                    , Wis.: 
                        Wisconsin
                     Veterans Museum, 1997. Pp. 109. Illustrations, notes. Paperbound, $12.95.)
            These two works are useful for researchers of the 5,000-man Iron Brigade, which saw battle at 
                        Gettysburg
                    , Antietam, and numerous other sites during the Civil War. Madaus and Zeitlin's
                    work touches only lightly on the 19th Indiana, focusing instead on the brigade's more
                    numerous 
                        Wisconsin
                     troops. Venner offers a straightforward accounting of the makeup, movements, and
                    casualties of the 19th Indiana.
            
               The Dusty Road Leads to Elkinsville. Compiled by Robert E. Cross. ([
                        Bloomington
                    , Ind.]: the author, 2002. Pp. 171. Illustrations. Paperbound, $36.95, plus
                    $3.00 shipping and handling.)
            This self-published book of reminiscences, photographs, and poems was created, writes the author, to
                    "create and continue to honor the bonds we as a group experienced living in
                    Elkinsville" (p. l), a 
                        Brown
                     County hamlet destroyed in preparation for the creation of Lake 
                        Monroe
                     in the 1960s. The book provides a firsthand glimpse of rural life in midcentury Indiana
                    and offers a useful primary resource for anyone seeking to understand how rural development affected
                    the lives of those who felt its impact most directly.
            
            
               Fifty Years of Beneficence: The Ball State University Foundation 1951-2001. By
                    Raymond E. White. ([
                        Muncie
                    , Ind.]: [Ball State University Foundation], 2002. Pp. 109. Illustrations, appendix,
                    bibliographic essay. Paperbound.)
            As an official institutional history of Ball State's development arm, this book complements
                    Geelhoed and Edmonds's more comprehensive Ball State University: An
                        Interpretive History (2001). The book's historical detail will likely interest
                    Ball State alumni as well, perhaps, as those seeking to trace more broadly the evolution of
                    fundraising and financial management in the modern university.
            
               "Now Quite Out of Society": Archaeology and Frontier 
                            Illinois
                        . Essays and excavation reports by Robert Mazrim. (
                        Springfield
                    , Ill.: 
                        Illinois
                     Transportation Archaeological Research Program, Department of Anthropology, University
                    of 
                        Illinois
                     at 
                        Urbana
                    -
                        Champaign
                    , and 
                        Illinois
                     Department of Transportation, 2002. Pp. xiii, 297. Illustrations, maps, figures,
                    tables, notes, references. Paperbound, $25.00.)
            Like much contract archaeology work, this collection of six essays on frontier 
                        Illinois
                     hides a great deal of original research and insight beneath the guise of an
                    imposing-looking official report. Generated by research carried out in response to recent
                    transportation improvements in 
                        Illinois
                    , the report builds on the archaeological record to detail the evolution of the 
                        Illinois
                     country during the "transition from a sparsely occupied wilderness to a
                    designed colonial community, with organized sociopolitical boundaries and infrastructures"
                    (p. xi).
            
               The World's Columbian Exposition: The 
                            Chicago
                         World's Fair of 1893. By 
                        Norman
                     Bolotin & Christine Laing. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 2002. Pp. ix, 166. Illustrations, selected bibliography, index. Paperbound
                    $21.95.)
            Bolotin and Laing offer a general overview of this most celebrated of American fairs. Rather than
                    offering a new interpretation, the book will be most useful as a general reference to readers
                    seeking quick access to facts about, and images of, the White City and its adjacent Midway.
         
         
         
            Recent Articles, Books, Pamphlets, Dissertations, and Other Publications in Indiana History
            
                    Compiled by Leigh Darbee
                
            Editor's Note: This annual list is intended to aid researchers in Indiana
                        history. The Magazine solicits items for inclusion, especially from publications (other than
                        newspapers) not usually reviewed in the IMH. Items to be included in the March 2004 issue should
                        be sent before November 1, 2003.
            
            
               "10 Most Endangered [Indiana Landmarks for 2002]," Indiana
                            Preservationist, No. 1 (January/February 2002).
               "Abe Martin," 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Postcard Club (September 2002). [Reproductions of postcards featuring the
                        Kin Hubbard character Abe Martin.]
               Abshier, George S., Memoirs and Musings of a Country Boy (Utica, Ky.:
                        McDowell Publications, 2000). [Memories of rural southwestern Indiana.]
               
                  "The Agricultural Epitomist: Popular Publication Incorporates an
                        Experimental Farm at 
                            Spencer
                        ," 
                     
                                Owen County
                             History and Genealogy, XI (Spring 2002).
               "Around Indiana," 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Postcard Club (June 2002). Reproductions of historical postcards from
                        around the state.]
               Bacon, John U., "The Gipper," 
                     
                                Michigan
                             History, LXXXV (November/ December 2001).
               Baer, M. Teresa, "Hendricks County Physicians, ca. 1850 to 1939." Part 1:
                        "Amo to Clayton"; Part 2: "Coatesville to White Lick." The Hoosier Genealogist, XLI (December 2001); XLII (Spring 2002).
               Baer, M. Teresa, et al., "
                            Perry County
                        's Indiana Cotton Mills, 1850 to 1954." Part 1: "
                            Cannelton
                        's Transformation from Village to Industrial Town"; Part 2:
                        "The Creation of Cloth." The Hoosier Genealogist, XLII
                        (Spring and Summer 2002).
               Bakken, Dawn E., "Young Believers and Old Believers in the Wilderness: Narratives of
                        Place and the Construction of Family among Western Shakers," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, XCVII (December 2001).
               Banks, Ingrid, Hair Matters: Beauty, Power, and Black Women's
                            Consciousness (
                            New York
                        : 
                            New York
                         University Press, 2000). [Includes discussion of the Madam C. J. Walker
                        Manufacturing Company of 
                            Indianapolis
                        .]
               
               Bassett, Beth, "
                            Goodland
                         Bank Robbed by the Al Brady Gang, 1937," Newton County Historical Society
                            Newcomer (Summer 2002).
               Bear, Amy, "Back to the Future: Indiana's Interurban," Indiana Preservationist, No. 4 (July/August 2002).
               Bearss, Edwin C., George Rogers Clark Memorial: Historic Structures Report,
                            Historical Data ([
                            Vincennes
                        : 
                            Vincennes
                         Historical and Antiquarian Society, 2000]). [Reprint of 1970 edition.]
               Bigelow, Bruce, "The Cultural Geography of African Americans in Antebellum
                        Indiana," Black History News & Notes, No. 88 (May 2002).
               —-, "Cultural Regions of Indiana in the 1850s and 1860s," Journal of the Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences, IV (2000).
               Bigham, Darrel, Southern Indiana (
                            Charleston
                        , S.C.: Arcadia Publishing, 2000).
               Birdsell, Roger, A Burial Ground for Deceased Israelites: Jewish Cemeteries in 
                                South Bend
                            
                   (
                            South Bend
                        : Michiana Jewish Historical Society, 2002).
               Boomhower, Ray E., "John A. Bushemi: Combat Photographer," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XIV (Winter 2002).
               —-, "'The Last Enemy Is Destroyed': May Wright Sewall
                        and Neither Dead nor Sleeping," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                        History, XIV (Spring 2002).
               —-, "
                            New Harmony
                        : Home to Indiana's Communal Societies," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, XIV (Fall 2002).
               —-, "Students at the LaGrange Collegiate Institute, 1839-1840,"
                            The Hoosier Genealogist, XLII (Spring 2002).
               Bormet, Michelle J., A History of the City of 
                                Warsaw
                            , Indiana: Preserving the Past for the Future (
                            Warsaw
                        : 
                            Kosciusko County
                         Historical Society, 2001).
               Born, Gerald, "Capture of a Horse Thief," Newton County Historical Society
                            Newcomer (Winter 2002).
               Borowiec, Andrew, Along the 
                                Ohio
                            
                   (
                            Baltimore
                        , Md.: Johns Hopkins University Press, 2000).
               Bradley, George K., Indiana Railroad: The Magic Interurban, 2nd printing (
                            Chicago
                        : Central Electric Railfans' Association, 2001).
               Brod, Raymond Michael, "Maps As Weapons in the Conquest of Old American Northwest
                            [sic], 1608 to 1829" (Ph.D. dissertation, University of 
                            Illinois
                         at 
                            Chicago
                        , 2000).
               Brown, Maxine F., The Role of Free Blacks in Indiana's Underground
                            Railroad: The Case of Floyd, Harrison, and Washington Counties ([s.l.: s.n.], 2001).
               Buckner, Sue, Confederate Burials in Crown Hill Cemetery, 
                                Marion County
                            , Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Genealogical Society of 
                            Marion County
                        , 1998). [Corrected reprint.]
               Burns, Robert E., Being Catholic, Being American: The Notre Dame Story, 2
                        vols. (Notre Dame: University of Notre Dame Press, 1999-2000).
               
               Business in Berne in 2002: A Pictorial Book. Celebrating Berne's Sesquicentennial,
                        1852–2002 (Berne, Ind.: Berne Sesquicentennial Committee, 2002).
               Butler, James L., and John J. Butler, Indiana Wine: A History (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2001).
               Byrd, Ayana D., and Lori L. Tharps, Hair Story: Untangling the Roots of Black Hair in America (
                            New York
                        : St. Martin's Press, 2001). [Includes discussion of the Madam C. J. Walker
                        Manufacturing Company of 
                            Indianapolis
                        .]
               Capshew, James H., "Home Design for Indiana University: Herman B Wells and the
                        Furnishing of the Campus," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XIV (Summer 2002).
               Carlson, Alicia, and Sandra Cline, Law in America's Crossroads: A History of the 
                            Indianapolis
                         Legal Profession (Birmingham, Ala.: Association Publishing Company, 2001).
               Carpenter, Dan, "Inclusion and Exclusion: Indiana's Ethnic Chinese
                        Community," The Hoosier Genealogist, XLI (December 2001).
               Castaldi, Thomas E., 
                            Wabash
                         & Erie Canal, Notebook I: Allen and 
                            Huntington
                         Counties, 2nd rev. ed. (Fort 
                            Wayne
                        : The Author, 2002).
               —-, "
                            Hamilton
                         Women Left Their Imprint on the State and the Nation," Hoosierisms
                        Quarterly, VI (Winter 2001).
               Caudell, Marcia, et al., "WPA Library Projects in Indiana," Indiana
                        Libraries, XX (2001).
               Cayton, Andrew R. L., and Susan E. Gray, eds., The American Midwest: Essays on Regional
                        History (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2001).
               Celebrating Our Partnership, 1985–2000/Wir Feiern Unsere Partnerschaft (
                            Jasper
                        : 
                            Jasper
                         Partnership Commission, 2000).
               Christianson, Elin B., 
                            Lake County
                         Communities, Past and Present (Hobart: Hobart Historical Society, 2001).
               
                  The Claypool Sketch Book (
                            Indianapolis
                        : [s.n.], 2001). [Limited edition reprint.]
               Cochrane, Sharlene Voogd, "Letters from Mudlavia: '… it is just
                        very hard to get well," Indiana Magazine of History, XCVII (December 2001).
               Combs, K. L., "Aaron Richard 'Cap' Fisher: A Tribute,"
                        Black History News & Notes, No. 87 (February 2002).
               Conley, Laurence D., "The Truth about Chickamauga: A Ninth Indiana
                        Regiment's Perspective," Indiana Magazine of History, XCVIII (June 2002).
               Coon, Diane Perrine, Southeastern Indiana's Underground Railroad Routes and
                        Operations (
                            Louisville
                        , Ky.: Perrine Enterprises, [2001]).
               Counts, Will, et al., 
                                Bloomington
                             Past and Present (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2002).
               
               Cronin, Robert P., Selling Steakburgers: The Growth of a Corporate Culture (Carmel: Guild
                        Press of Indiana, 2000). [Steak n Shake restaurants.]
               Danielson, Kay Marnon, 
                            South Bend
                        , Indiana (
                            Charleston
                        , S.C.: Arcadia Publishing, 2001).
               Darbee, Leigh, "Bird's-Eye Views," The Hoosier Genealogist, XLI
                        (December 2001).
               —–, "The Call of the Open Road: Automobile Maps," The
                        Hoosier Genealogist, XLII (Spring 2002).
               —–, "The Call of the Open Road: Highway Maps," The
                        Hoosier Genealogist, XLII (Summer 2002).
               —–, "David Zeisberger and the Moravians," Traces of
                        Indiana and Midwestern History, XIV (Summer 2002).
               Darlington, Jane Eaglesfield, comp., Christ Church Cathedral, 55 Monument Circle, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana: Parish Registers, 1837-1922 ([
                            Indianapolis
                        : Darlington], 2002).
               —–, Indiana: Selected Records of Clark, 
                            Franklin
                        , Harrison, 
                            Marion
                        , Perry, 
                            Putnam
                         and 
                            Warren
                         Counties ([
                            Indianapolis
                        : Darlington], 2001).
               Darrah, Ron, comp., Graduates of 
                            Indianapolis
                         High School, Shortridge High School, 1869–1910 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Genealogical Society of 
                            Marion County
                        , 2001).
               
                  
                            Dearborn County
                         Historical Society, The World War II Years, 1940-1945: 
                                Dearborn County
                            's Pictorial History, Vol. II (Paducah, Ky.: Turner Publishing
                        Company, 2001).
               Dichtl, John Raymond, "Frontiers of Faith: Transplanting Catholicism to the West in
                        the Early Republic" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University, 2000).
               Dichtl, William J., 
                     
                                Ohio
                             County, Indiana (
                            Charleston
                        , S.C.: Arcadia Publishing, 2001).
               "Dining in Historic Places," Indiana Preservationist, No.
                        4 (July/August 2002). [Series of articles on restaurants in historic Indiana buildings.]
               Dolzall, Gary W., and Stephen F. Dolzall, Monon: The Hoosier Line, 2nd rev.
                        ed. (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2002).
               Drenovsky, Rachael L., "
                            Indianapolis
                         Open Occupancy Ordinance," Black History News &
                        Notes, No. 90 (November 2002).
               "Early African-American History in 
                            Henry County
                        , Indiana," 
                     
                                Henry County
                             Historicalog, XXX (Spring 2002).
               
                  Early Businesses in Zionsville, Indiana: A Compilation of Pertinent Available
                            Information (Zionsville: Zionsville Historical Society, 2002).
               Eckerman, Nancy Pippen, Indiana in the Civil War: Doctors, Hospitals, and Medical
                            Care (
                            Charleston
                        , S.C.: Arcadia Publishing, 2001).
               Edmonds, Anthony O., and E. Bruce Geelhoed, Ball State University: An
                            Interpretive History (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2001).
               
               Edmonds, Michael, "Flights of Fancy: Birds and People in the Old Northwest,"
                            
                     
                                Wisconsin
                             Magazine of History, LXXXIII (Spring 2000).
               Elve, Steven D., 
                     
                                Michigan
                             City Lighthouse [sic]: Guardians of Lake 
                                Michigan
                            
                   (
                            Charleston
                        , S.C.: Arcadia Publishing, 2001).
               Ensley, Philip C., "Indiana and the Impeachment Trials of Andrew Johnson and William
                        Clinton," Journal of the Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences
                        (2000).
               Faulconer, Tom, In the Eyes of the Law: The True Story of Love, Betrayal, Murder,
                            Fame and Justice in 1950's America ([
                            Bloomington
                        ]: 1stBooks Library, 2002). [Account of a murder trial in 
                            Bloomington
                        .]
               "First Women Coaches and Players Inducted into the Indiana Basketball Hall of
                        Fame," Indiana Basketball History, X (Winter 2002). [Includes brief
                        biographical sketches of six women.]
               Flavin, Francis, "The Adventurer-Artists of the Nineteenth Century and the Image of
                        the American Indian," Indiana Magazine of History, XCVIII (March
                        2002).
               Foster, Kathleen A., et al., Thomas Hart 
                                Benton
                             and the Indiana Murals (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2000).
               Foster, Mark S., Castles in the Sand: The Life and Times of Carl Graham
                        Fisher (
                            Gainesville
                        , Fla.: University Press of 
                            Florida
                        , 2000).
               Fox, Paul G., comp. and ed., 
                     
                                Decatur
                             Township Heritage: A Selection of Readings about the History and People of 
                                Decatur
                             Township of 
                                Marion County
                            , Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        : 
                            Decatur
                         Township Historical Society, 1998).
               
                  From "Magic Days" to Millennium—As Told by
                        Newspaper Folk. Ed. Betty Harris (
                            Muncie
                        : Aitmark Publications, 2000).
               Furlong, Patrick J., Indiana: An Illustrated History (Sun Valley, Calif.:
                        American Historical Press, 2001).
               Gehring, Wes D., "The Patriotic Last Days of Carole Lombard," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XIV (Spring 2002).
               Glen, John M., et al., "Indiana Archives: Sports History,"
                            Indiana Magazine of History, XCVIII (September 2002).
               Gould, Todd, "Repatriation: Forced Exodus from the Calumet Region," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XIV (Fall 2002).
               Gray, Hetty, Net Prophet: The Bill Garrett Story (
                            Fairland
                        , Ind.: Sugar Creek Publishing, 2001).
               Greiff, Glory-June, Lincoln Pioneer Village: A New Deal Living History
                        Museum (
                            Rockport
                        , Ind.: Old 
                            Rockport
                        , Inc., 2001).
               Habegger, David L., and Karen C. Adams, The Swiss of Adams and Wells Counties,
                            Indiana, 1838–1862 (Fort 
                            Wayne
                        : Habegger, 2002).
               Hanlin, George R., "Vawter Diary Holds Details and Mysteries of 
                            Ripley
                         and Jefferson Counties, 1869–1879," The Hoosier
                            Genealogist, XLII (Spring 2002).
               
               Harris, Betty, "'I Want to Hold Your Hand': The Beatles at the
                        Indiana State Fair," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XIV
                        (Fall 2002).
               Heitman, Don, "History of the Thirty-Second Indiana Volunteer Infantry
                        Regiment," Indiana German Heritage Society Newsletter, XVI (Spring
                        2000).
               Henly, Beverly, "
                            Whitley County
                         Courthouses," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XL (September 2002).
               Hinshaw, Gregory P., "What's In a Name? The Confusing Story of the Origins
                        of One Indiana County's Name [
                            Randolph County
                        ]," Indiana Magazine of History, XCVIII (March 2002).
               Hinshaw, Gregory P., and Judy (Wilson) Wright, Farmland, Indiana: A
                            Sesquicentennial History, 1852–2002 (Farmland: Farmland History Book
                        Committee, 2002).
               [History of fairs in 
                            Marshall County
                        ], 
                     
                                Marshall County
                             Historical Society Quarterly, XXXI (Summer 2002).
               "The History of 
                            Kentland
                        ," Newton County Historical Society Newcomer (Fall 2001).
                        [Reprint from the 
                     
                                Kentland
                             Enterprise, May 18, 1895.]
               Holden, Robert John, with Donna Jean Holden, The Hunting Pioneers,
                            1720–1840: Ultimate Backwoodsmen on the Early American Frontier (Bowie, Md.:
                        Heritage Books, 2000).
               Homann, W. Charles, Jr., After the War: A Memoir of the Post World War II Era,
                            1947–1982 ([Carmel?: The Author?], 2001).
               Hunter, Curtis W., It Happened in Indiana ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ]: The Author, 2001).
               "Indiana Travel Sampler," Indiana Preservationist, No. 2
                        (March/April 2002). [Series of articles on Indiana historic sites and roads.]
               
                  Indiana Women: 150 Years of Raised Voices. Sesquicentennial of Indiana's
                            First Woman's Rights Convention, 
                                Dublin
                            , Indiana, October 14-15, 1851 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Women's History Association, 2001).
               
                  
                     
                                Jasper County
                             Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 2002).
               Jerse, Dorothy W., and John R. Becker, III 
                            Terre Haute
                         and 
                     
                                Vigo County
                             in Vintage Postcards (
                            Charleston
                        , S.C.: Arcadia Publishing, 2001).
               Jerse, Dorothy Weinz, New Automobile Dealers: 
                                Vigo County
                            , Indiana, 1900-1999 (
                            Terre Haute
                        : Esten Fuson, 2000).
               Kruse, Maxine, Lawrence County, Indiana (
                            Charleston
                        , S.C.: Arcadia Publishing, 2001).
               Lane, Lloyd D., All My Love Forever: Letters Home from a World War II Citizen
                            Soldier, Written in 1943–1945 by Lloyd D. Lane. Ed. Dale Lane and David Lane ([
                            Bloomington
                        ]: 1stBooks Library, 2001).
               
               Lehman, Naomi (Eugene), A Swiss Community in 
                                Adams County
                            
                   (
                            Charleston
                        , S.C.: Arcadia Publishing, 2001).
               "Let's Meet on Main Street," Indiana
                        Preservationist, No. 2 (March/April 2001). [Series of articles on Main Street preservation
                        programs in Indiana; includes discussion of 
                     Madison, Goshen
                  , and
                        Farmland.]
               "Life in the Calumet Region during the Year 2000," Steel
                            Shavings, XXXIII (2002).
               Linklater, Andro, "The Measurement That Built America," American Heritage, LIII (November/December 2002). [History of the U.S. Public Land
                        Survey.]
               Living with History," Indiana Preservationist, No. 5
                        (September/October 2002). [Series of articles on historic homes in Indiana, all of which will be
                        featured in 99 Historic Homes of Indiana.]
               Lu, Marlene K., Walk in' the 
                                Wabash
                            : An Exploration into the Underground Railroad in West Central Indiana ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ?: Department of Natural Resources, Division of Historic Preservation and
                        Archeology?, 2001]).
               Marshall, Joan E., "Cholera in an Indiana Market Town: 'Boosters'
                        and Public Health Policy in 
                            Lafayette
                        , 1849," Indiana Magazine of History, XCVIII (September
                        2002).
               Martin, Charles H., "The Color Line in Midwestern College Sports,
                        1890–1960," Indiana Magazine of History, XCVIII (June
                        2002).
               Matile, Roger, "John Frink and Martin Walker: Stagecoach Kings of the Old
                        Northwest," Journal of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society, XCV (Summer 2002).
               McCullough, Dorthea Kline, "'By cash and eggs': Gender in 
                            Washington County
                         during Indiana's Pioneer Period (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University,
                        2001).
               McDowell, James L., "Indiana's 150-Year-Old Constitution: A Sesquicentennial
                        Review," Journal of the Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences
                        (2000).
               
                  Millennium Moments, Vol. I(
                            Tipton
                        : 
                     
                                Tipton
                             Tribune, 2001).
               Miller, Ida Mae Good, and Scott J. Flood, Books for All the People: The First
                            Century of the 
                                Plainfield
                            -Guilford Township Public Library (
                            Plainfield
                        : The Library, 2001).
               Mills, Randy, "'Those Who Honor Me with Their Suffrage': The
                        Political Career of Robert M. Evans," Journal of the Indiana Academy of
                            the Social Sciences, IV (2000).
               Mills, Randy, et al., Report to Indiana Department of Natural Resources, Division
                            of Historic Preservation and Archeology… Concerning Underground Railroad Activity
                            in Southwestern Indiana ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ?: Department of Natural Resources, Division of Historic Preservation and
                        Archeology?, 2001?]).
               Mills, Randy J. [sic], "'I wish the world to look upon
                        them as my murderers': A Story of Cultural Violence on the 
                            Ohio
                         Valley Frontier," 
                     
                                Ohio
                             Valley History, I (Fall 2001).
               
               Mills, Randy K., "Honoring Those Who Paid the Price": Forgotten
                            Voices from the Korean War (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 2002).
               —-,"'It's Hard to Write with Mittens On':
                        Hoosier Letters from the Korean War," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, XIV (Fall 2002).
               Milner, Jean Shepard, Selected Writings and Favorite Quotations of Jean Shepard
                            Milner, D.D. ([
                            Indianapolis
                        : s.n., 2001]). [Reprint of 1967 edition.]
               [Mint growing in Indiana], 
                     
                                Marshall County
                             Historical Society Quarterly, XXXI (Spring 2002).
               Montagna, Douglas Steven, "A Faith for Changing Seasons: Education and the Refinement
                        of Methodism in Indiana, 1800-1872" (Ph.D. dissertation, Northern 
                            Illinois
                         University, 2000).
               Morrow, Jim, Beverly Shores: A Suburban Dunes Resort (
                            Charleston
                        , S.C.: Arcadia Publishing, 2001).
               Osgood, Robert L., "From 'Public Liabilities' to 'Public
                        Assets': Special Education for Children with Mental Retardation in Indiana Public
                        Schools, 1908-1931,"Indiana Magazine of History, XCVIII (September
                        2002).
               —-, "The Menace of the Feebleminded: George Bliss, Amos 
                            Butler
                        , and the Indiana Committee on Mental Defectives,"Indiana
                            Magazine of History, XCVII (December 2001).
               Paddock, Geoff, "An Honest Politician: J. Edward Roush, U.S. Congressman,"
                            Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XIV (Spring 2002).
               Page, Vicki DuBois, "A New Era in Hoosier Education: 
                            Mooresville
                         Academy, 1861-2002," The Hoosier Genealogist, XLII
                        (Summer 2002).
               Paul, Deborah, From Here to Maturity: Confessions of a Kid at Heart
                        (Zionsville: Guild Press of Indiana, 2001).
               Perry, Rachel Berenson, "One Man's Muse," Hoosierisms
                            Quarterly, VI (Spring 2001). [Indiana artist Leroy Trobaugh.]
               Peters, Pamela R., The Underground Railroad in 
                                Floyd County
                            , Indiana (Jefferson, N.C.: McFarland & Company, 2001).
               
                  A Place to Belong: Images of Corydon, Indiana, 1850-1975. Ed. Larry Ordner (
                            Louisville
                        , Ky.: Harmony House Publishers, 2000).
               Polston, Steve, "Lotus Dickey and Timeless Music," Outdoor
                            Indiana, LXVII (March/April 2002).
               Powell, Richard L., and Erik P. Kvale, "A Monumental Business: The Story of Hindostan
                        Whetstone Gravestones," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XIV
                        (Winter 2002).
               Price, Nelson, Legendary Hoosiers: Famous Folks from the State of Indiana
                        (Zionsville: Guild Press of Indiana, 2001).
               Quinn, Angela M., The Underground Railroad and the Antislavery Movement in Fort 
                                Wayne
                             and 
                                Allen County
                            , Indiana (Fort 
                            Wayne
                        : Arch, 2001).
               
               Regan-Dinius, Jeannie, "Project Tracks Underground Railroad," Indiana Preservationist, No. 1 (January/February 2002).
               Reichmann, Ruth, "The Germans in Indiana: Glimpses at Hoosier German
                        History," Indiana German Heritage Society Newsletter, XVII (Spring
                        2001).
               
                  Religious Diversity in Central Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Center for Urban Policy and the Environment, 2002).
               Ringenberg, Margaret J., and Jane L. Roth, Girls Can't Be Pilots: An
                            Aerobiography (Fort 
                            Wayne
                        : Daedalus Press, 1998).
               Roberts, Rachel Sherwood, "A Lure for All Seasons: The Creek Chub Bait Company of
                        Garrett, Indiana," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XIV
                        (Summer 2002).
               Roberts, Warren E., "The Tools Used in Building Log Houses in Indiana," Material Culture, XXXIII (Spring 2001). [Reprint from Pioneer
                            America (1980).]
               Rohrer, Fred, Saloon Fight at Berne, Ind.: Not a Novel, but Real History. Truth
                            Stranger Than Fiction ([Berne?: s.n.], 2002). [Reprint of 1913 edition.]
               Ryan, Jordan, "The Indiana Separation of 1842 and the Limits of 
                            Quaker
                         Anti-Slavery," 
                     
                                Quaker
                             History, LXXXIX (Spring 2000).
               Sarles, Jane, Clarksville, Indiana (
                            Charleston
                        , S.C.: Arcadia Publishing, 2001).
               "School Issue," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XL (June 2002).
               Schroeder, Christopher D., "'Dreams of a 
                            Prairie
                         Republic': Morris Birkbeck and Settlement on the Indiana-
                            Illinois
                         Frontier, 1764-1860" (Ph.D. dissertation, University of 
                            Delaware
                        , 2000).
               
                  A Scrapbook: Fact, Fancy and Photographs about 
                                Franklin
                             Township (
                            Indianapolis
                        : 
                            Franklin
                         Township, 
                            Marion County
                        , Indiana, Historical Society, 2001).
               Shelby, Carole, Memories of Lake 
                                Tippecanoe
                            : A Pictorial History of Lake 
                        Tippecanoe, Kosciusko
                      County,
                            Indiana (North Webster: The Author, 2000).
               Smith, Alan F., 
                     
                                Ripley County
                             in Vintage Postcards (
                            Charleston
                        , S.C.: Arcadia Publishing, 2000).
               Smith, John Martin, 
                     
                                Allen County
                             in Vintage Postcards (
                            Charleston
                        , S.C.: Arcadia Publishing, 2001).
               —-, Angola and 
                                Steuben
                             County in Vintage Postcards (
                            Charleston
                        , S.C.: Arcadia Publishing, 2001).
               —-, 
                     
                                DeKalb County
                             in Vintage Postcards (
                            Charleston
                        , S.C.: Arcadia Publishing, 2001).
               
                  Kendallville and Noble County in Vintage Postcards (
                            Charleston
                        , S.C.: Arcadia Publishing, 2001).
               Smith, Sharon L., "For the Love of Music: The MacArthur Conservatory of 
                            Indianapolis
                        ," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, (Summer
                        2002).
               
               Songer, Hugo C., "
                            Wayne
                         Hall's Store," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, XIV (Spring 2002).
               Spann, Edward K., and Graeme Reid, "A Significant Art: The 
                            Terre Haute
                         Murals of Gilbert Wilson," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, XIV (Winter 2002).
               Sprunger, Rick, Spread Far the Fame: A History of Championship Athletic Teams in
                            Berne (Berne, Ind.: Berne Sesquicentennial Committee, 2002).
               
                  
                     
                                Spencer County
                             Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 2001).
               St. James, Lyn, Ride of Your Life: A Race Car Driver's Journey (
                            New York
                        : Hyperion, 2002).
               Stewart, Bob, Early Cultures of 
                                Bartholomew
                             [sic] County ([
                            Columbus
                        ]: 
                            Bartholomew County
                         Historical Society, [1999]).
               Stokes-Lucas, Dona, et al., Interpretive Stories Associated with the Underground
                            Railroad in the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Area (
                            Indianapolis
                        : [s.n.], 2001).
               Sudhalter, Richard M. "'Star Dust': From Stardust
                            Melody: The Life and Music of Hoagy Carmichael," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, XIV (Spring 2002).
               —-, Stardust Melody: The Life and Music of Hoagy Carmichael (
                            New York
                        : 
                            Oxford
                         University Press, 2002).
               
                  
                     
                                Sullivan County
                             Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 2002).
               Taylor, Wilma Rugh, Sister of the Solid Rock: Edna Mae Barnes Martin and the East
                            Side Christian Center (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 2002).
               —-, "Solid Faith in a Shaky House: From Sister of the Solid
                            Rock: Edna Mae Barnes Martin and the East Side Christian Center, "Traces of Indiana
                            and Midwestern History, XIV (Fall 2002).
               Teague, Tom, "From Route 66 to the 
                            Indianapolis
                         500," 
                     
                                Illinois
                             Heritage, V (September/October 2002). [The Granatelli brothers.]
               Tenuth, Jeff, "Ball Jars Were More Than a Household Staple for East Central Indiana
                        Economic Fortunes," Hoosierisms Quarterly, VI (Spring 2001).
               Tishler, William H., Midwestern Landscape Architecture (
                            Urbana
                        , Ill.: University of 
                            Illinois
                         Press, 2000).
               Todorov, Lubomir, ed., Macedonian Tribune Page One: Major Events of the 20th
                            Century (Fort 
                            Wayne
                        : Central Committee, Macedonian Patriotic Organization of the US., 1999).
               Tondeur, Cristina Casado, "Connecting to the Dream and the Rebirth of a City: The
                        Application of Martin Luther King's Philosophies and Teachings through Local Civil
                        Rights Leaders in 
                            Evansville
                        , Indiana, 1955-1973" (M.A. thesis, Indiana University, 2001).
               Urbahns, Franklin A., A Family Treasure: A Journal and Rememberance [sic] of the
                            Life of Ben H. Urbahns, April 22, 1880–January 21, 1926 ([s.l.: s.n.,
                        2000?]).
               
               Wade, Alfred B., A Hoosier Journal: The Civil War Diary of Colonel Alfred B.
                            Wade. Transcribed by Michael Downs (
                            South Bend
                        : Northern Indiana Center for History, 2000).
               Warren, Stephen, "Between Villages and Nations: The Emergence of Shawnee Nationalism,
                        1800–1870" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University, 2000).
               
                  
                     
                                Wayne County
                             Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 2001).
               Webb, Stephen H., "Introducing Black Harry Hoosier: The History behind
                        Indiana's Namesake," Indiana Magazine of History, XCVIII
                        (March 2002).
               Weber, Catherine E Forrest, "A Citizen of 
                            Athens
                        : Fort 
                            Wayne
                        's Edith 
                            Hamilton
                        ," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XIV (Winter
                        2002).
               
                  
                     
                                Whitley County
                             Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 2002).
               Whorrall, Bill, From Art to Zoar: A Personal Journey through Southern
                        Indiana ([s.l.]: Herald Printing, 2001).
               —-, Goodbye, Mom and Pop: Independent Businesses in Southern
                        Indiana ([Marceline, Mo.]: Walsworth Publishing, 1999).
               Willard, Shirley, ed., 
                     
                                Fulton County
                             Folks (
                            Rochester
                        : 
                            Fulton County
                         Historical Society, 2000). [Reprint of 1974 edition.]
               Winters, William, The Music of the Mocking Birds, the Roar of the Cannon: The
                            Civil War Diary and Letters of William Winters. Ed. Steven E. Woodworth (Lincoln:
                        University of 
                            Nebraska
                         Press, 1998). [Sixty-Seventh Indiana Volunteer Infantry Regiment.]
               Wolf, John D., 
                     
                                Valparaiso
                             and 
                                Porter County
                            : How We Got Our Name (
                            Valparaiso
                        : Home Mountain Publishing Company, 1998).
               —-, With Captain David Porter, or "How We Got Our
                            Name": 
                                Valparaiso
                             and 
                                Porter County
                            , Indiana (
                            Valparaiso
                        : Home Mountain Publishing Company, 2000).
               "Working for a Living," Indiana Preservationist, No. 6
                        (November/ December 2002). [Series of articles on Indiana industrial sites, some being reused
                        for other purposes.]
               Zemaitis, Frank, "The Chellberg Farmhouse," Traces of Indiana
                            and Midwestern History, XIV (Summer 2002).
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
      
   
