
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 13, Issue 3, pages 211-306. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:13+issue:3+year:1917&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Origin and Rise of the Republican Party in Indiana from 1854 to 1860
            By CHARLES ZIMMERMAN, A. M., Decker, Ind.
            THE FUSION MOVEMENT
            
            ALTHO 1852 was a year for the election of a President not much
                    interest was taken in the campaign in Indiana. The Democrats held their State
                    convention at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , February 24. They endorsed the compromise of 1850 and placed a
                    ticket in the field, headed by Joseph A. Wright and A. P. Willard. The Free
                    Soilers were strong in northern Indiana, but not a man of their political belief
                    was placed upon the ticket. This indicated a split in the party.
            The next State convention was that of the Whigs, held February 26, at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in which Nicholas McCarty of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and William Williams of 
                        Warsaw
                    , were placed at the head of their ticket. A platform was adopted
                    differing but little from that of the Democrats.
            Abolitionists, Wilmot Proviso Democrats, Van Burenites, and
                    Anti-Fugitive-Slave-Law Whigs made up the Free Soil convention which met in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , May 17, 1852. A. L. Robinson, of Vanderburg, and J. P. Millikan,
                    of 
                        Decatur
                    , were their candidates. At this time the Free Soilers had come to
                    the place where they were to accept the compromise measures except the clause
                    relating to the return of fugitive slaves.1
            
            Thus it will be seen that there were no great issues envolved 
                  
                     1 Dale Beeler, "The Election of
                            1852." Indiana Magazine of History, XI.
                        315.
               
                in the campaign. When the smoke of
                    battle had cleared away it was seen that the Democrats had won a fruitless
                    victory. They had elected ten congressmen, while the Whigs had elected but one,
                    S. W. Parker, of the Fifth district. The State legislature was Democratic, there
                    being but thirty-four Whigs elected to the House and sixteen Whigs to the
                    Senate. The entire State ticket was Democratic.
            The election had some serious effects upon the political parties. While the
                    Democrats had won and had succeeded in quieting dissention in their own party
                    during the campaign, they were by no means harmonious after the election. The
                    small vote of the Free Soil party shows that it had run its course and need no
                    longer exist as an independent organization. The Whigs, who had supported their
                    ticket not so much from belief in the principles of the party as from opposition
                    to the Democrats, practically went out of existence. As the New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Ledger put it, the Whig party was annihilated and could never
                    be rallied as a political party.2 Thus there were many
                    voters in Indiana whose views were such that there was no political party
                    existing of which they could be a member. If some fundamental issue should arise
                    upon which these men might agree a new party could be formed which might unite
                    the elements opposed to the Democratic party. Such an issue did arise and it is
                    the purpose of this paper to show how these men, differing widely in their
                    views, united themselves into a great political organization, the Republican
                    party of Indiana.
            While there was no great political principle upon which the opponents of the
                    Democratic party could unite there was a question which was causing men of all
                    parties some thought. Indiana had come to the point where she felt that the
                    temperance question would have to be fought out. It was seen that the temperance
                    law of 1853 was not drastic enough and a prohibitory liquor law was demanded.3 The 
                        Maine
                     Law 
                  
                     2 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, November 16, 1852.
                  
                     3 The Temperance Law of 1853 forbade retailing in
                            quantities less than one gallon, unless a majority of the legal voters
                            endorsed such action by vote; it provided that the retailor must care
                            for drunks until sober; and that any injury done person, property or
                            means of support made the retailer or his sureties liable for
                        damages.
               
                     "craze" had reached the
                    West. Realizing the evils of drunkenness the advocates of temperance proposed to
                    remedy matters by a legislative short cut.4 It was said that
                    a 
                        Maine
                     Law would diminish taxes by lessening crime, safeguard morals,
                    close the grog shops, protect Indiana from the rum sellers and rum drinkers
                    driven out of other States who would come to Indiana, and, most significant of
                    all from a political viewpoint, it was seen that all Catholics, Protestants,
                    Whigs, Democrats, natives, and foreigners could unite in a common cause.5
            
            While all were to unite in a temperance movement the advocates of a 
                        Maine
                     Law asserted that they proposed to get such a law through the
                    existing political parties, if possible. A resolution was passed by a temperance
                    convention at 
                        South Bend
                    , August 5 and 6, 1852, by which it was resolved that "we
                    will vote only for such legislators and executive officers, without regard to
                    political party, as will create and sustain such a law."6 At the State Temperance convention held at 
                        Madison
                    , September 28, 1853, it was resolved to attempt a 
                        Maine
                     Law by endeavoring to elect members to the General Assembly
                    independent of party considerations.7 Thus it appears that
                    if the men back of the temperance movement had any idea of forming a new
                    political party they were careful to keep it from the public.
            The temperance movement was given a decided impetus by the decision of the
                    Indiana Supreme Court stating that that portion of the temperance Act of 1853
                    submitting the question of "license or no license" to the vote
                    of the people was unconstitutional.8 The decision made it
                    legal for anyone to sell liquor in any quantity. Indiana was practically without
                    any liquor law. At Mt. Sterling, November 26, 1853, the citizens of 
                        Switzerland
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     counties in a joint temperance convention resolved that they did
                    not wish to form a distinct temperance party, but they would not vote for any
                    man who would not pledge himself to a prohibitory law.9
                    
                  
                     4 G. W. Julia Political
                            Recollections, 138.
                  
                     5
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Morning Journal, November 8, 1803.
                  
                     6
                            
                        St. Joseph Valley Register,
                            August 19, 1852.
                  
                     7
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, October 8, 1853.
                  
                     8
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Morning Journal, November 29, 1853.
                  
                     9
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Morning Journal, December 9, 1853.
               
                     These men seemingly were not ready for a
                    new political party. At 
                        Indianapolis
                     a State temperance convention was held January II, 1854, with
                    probably 1,100 men in attendance. A State Central Temperance Committee was
                    organized and it was recommended that each county hold a meeting on February
                        22.10 An address to the people of Indiana was
                        prepared.11 How shall the crime and misery caused by
                    intemperance be most effectually banished from our state? License laws have
                    proved of no avail. There is but one remedy left, prohibition. Two main
                    objections will be urged against such a law; (1) existing prejudices and the
                    alleged pecuniary interests of those engaged in the traffic; (2) the present
                    organization of political parties. The address made it plain to the people that
                    it was not the intention to legislate against the private use of liquor in the
                    home but only against the manufacture and sale of liquor. In answer to the first
                    objection it was urged that the money invested in the liquor traffic could be
                    turned into more profitable channels. In answer to the second objection it was
                    stated that it was not the intention to injure the existing political parties,
                    but that it was the intention of the temperance men to support the party that
                    was willing to make prohibition an issue. In accordance with the address a
                    series of resolutions, stating that no liquor law would satisfy the temperance
                    sentiment of Indiana unless it represented the principles of "seizure,
                    confiscation, and destruction" of liquors kept for illegal sale, was
                    adopted. It was resolved that, attached as they were to their political parties,
                    they would not interfere with their present organization, but that they would
                    not support a candidate for the legislature who would not pledge himself to the
                    above principles.12 Thus the convention put the temperance
                    issue squarely before the people. It is worthy of note that at this time the
                    convention proposed to secure what it desired through the existing political
                    parties and not by the formation of a new political organization.
            County conventions held at different places over the State 
                  
                     10
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, February 11, 1854.
                  
                     11
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Morning Journal, January 13, 1854.
                  
                     12 Inclianapolis Morning
                            Journal, January 13, 1854.
               
                     adopted resolutions similar to those passed
                    by the State convention. The convention at 
                        Logansport
                     adopted the resolutions verbatim.13 The 
                        Rush
                     county convention passed stronger resolutions than those above. It
                    asked the old parties to bring out temperance men and agreed that, in case
                    neither party would bring out temperance men, to run independent men.14 At Laporte men of all political parties met and passed
                    resolutions similar to those above.15 The 
                        Montgomery
                     county convention resolved that they would not stand by the
                    "whiskey" plank of the Democratic platform and that they would
                    lay aside all political preference and unite their efforts in furthering the
                    great reform.16 It was decided to nominate temperance men
                    for the General Assembly. The 
                        Marion
                     county convention decided upon the same course.17
            
            What was the attitude of the people of Indiana toward this movement? As early as
                    January, 1854, the State Journal published an article stating
                    that out of 110 newspapers in the State but ten were opposed to the movement.18 From this it may be seen that the press was in favor of
                    some move for the betterment of conditions. Of course, among the people there
                    was a division of sentiment in regard to the matter. Many felt that this
                    question was of such a nature that it should not be dragged into politics. They
                    argued that it was more of a moral reform than a political question.19 There were many voters wanting a more stringent
                    temperance law who had so long been party men that it would have been very
                    difficult for them to support an opposition candidate no matter how strong he
                    was for temperance.20 The Democratic politicians looked upon
                    the movement with distrust. They felt that it was an attempt to revive the Whig
                    party by giving it a live issue. The various temperance meetings held throughout
                    the State were looked upon by the Democratic politicians as an indication that
                    the Whigs intended to 
                  
                     13
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, February 25, 1854.
                  
                     14 Rushville Republican, March
                            8, 1854.
                  
                     15
                            Weekly State Journal, June 3, 1S54.
                  
                     16
                            Weekly State Journal, July 1, 1854.
                  
                     17
                            Locomotive, June 17, 1S54.
                  
                     18
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Morning Journal, January 24, 1854.
                  
                     19
                            State Sentinel, January 27, 1854.
                  
                     20
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Pharos, January 25, 1854.
               
                     use the temperance issue as a hobby on
                    which to ride into power.21 As the State
                        Sentinel put it; 
                        "If Whiggery and Abolitionism can throw in the temperance
                            question as an auxiliary to aid them in electing a Whig legislature,
                            they will achieve a triumph by the aid of temperance Democrats, which
                            their political principles can never command."22
                  
                    
            
            Hence the Democrats were warned that every Democrat who assisted in the movement
                    was transferring himself, body and soul, to the Whig party. Friends of the
                    movement answered this opposition by stating that although most of the voters
                    favoring the movement were Whigs and that of the newspapers in Indiana favoring
                    it nine-tenths were Whig, it was difficult to see how the Whig party would be
                    benefited by abstracting so many of its members.23 The 
                        Rush
                     county temperance convention replied to this charge by a resolution
                    stating that the enactment of a prohibitory liquor law was not a Whig scheme but
                    the philanthropic demand of the people without respect to party.24 The Democrats would have preferred that this question be taken out
                    of politics and settled by a direct vote.25
            
            Before the Democratic State convention met in May, 1854, it was seen that the
                    Democrats would oppose the passage of a 
                        Maine
                     Law. The 
                        Montgomery
                     county Democratic convention had already resolved against
                    "seizure, confiscation and destruction."26
                    Yet it was evident that temperance would be an issue in the coming election.
                    Editor M. C. Garber, of the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier, said: 
                        The contest next fall, we believe, will be upon the temperance issue, for
                            or against a prohibitory liquor law. The people appear to have taken
                            sides on this issue; the politicians do not know exactly what to do in
                            the premises. The Whig politicians, having nothing to lose, are on tlie
                            side of a prohibition law. The Democrats, under the leadership of the
                                Mate Sentinel prefer to have the question
                            submitted to the people before it is made a part of the Democratic
                            creed. The temperance men stand with the balance of power in their
                                hands.27
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  21
                        
                            Logansport
                        
                        Pharos, January 25, 1S54.
               
                  22
                        State Sentinel, March 14, 1854.
               
                  23
                        
                            Logansport
                        
                        Journal, March 4, 1854.
               
                  24 RushviIle Republican, March 8,
                        1854.
               
                  25
                        
                            Logansport
                        
                        Pharos, February 22, 1854.
               
                  26
                        
                            Madison
                        
                        Dollar Weekly Courier, May 9, 1854.
               
                  27
                        
                            Madison
                         Dollar Weekly Courier, April 18, 1854.
            
            
            Thus it appeared that the people had decided that they would have an expression
                    of their sentiments on this question at the coming election. Many of them made
                    this the first issue and never swerved from it.28
            
            While the temperance movement was growing there was growing at the same time a
                    great political sentiment against the further extension of slavery. By a series
                    of political compromises the status of slavery in the territories had been
                    settled. The crowning act of this settlement had been the Compromise of 1850,
                    which was looked upon as a final disposition of the question of slavery in the
                    territories. Although this act only applied to the Mexican Cession and had not
                    specifically repealed the Compromise of 1820 it had affirmed a new principle
                    which, if sound, superseded the principle of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise and was bound to reopen the whole question even though
                    this measure was looked upon as a "finality."29
            
            That this act was so considered was seen in one of the planks of the national
                    Democratic platform of 1852, which reads as follows: 
                        
                     Resolved, that the Democratic party will resist all
                            attempts at renewing in Congress, or our of it, the agitation of the
                            slavery question under whatever shape or color the attempt may be
                                made.30
                  
                    
            
            The platform of the Democratic party in Indiana approved the compromise measures
                    by stating that they should under no pretense be disturbed.31 The Whigs in their State platform made no direct reference to the
                    slavery question, but the national Whig platform provided that the compromise
                    measures, including the Fugitive Slave Act, should be looked upon as a final
                    settlement of the slavery question."- The Free Soilers stood for,
                    "free soil, free speech, free labor, and free men." Thus it
                    will be seen that the great majority of Indiana people looked upon the question
                    as settled, although there was a small minority who hoped that in some way the
                        
                  
                     28
                            State Sentinel, October 31, 1854.
                  
                     29 George W. Julian, Political
                                Reminiscences, 136.
                  
                     30 Stanwood, History of the
                                Presidency, 182.
                  
                     31 W. E. 
                                Henry
                            , State Platforms, 5.
                  
                     32 Stanwood, History of the
                                Presidency, 185.
               
                     question would be reopened and settled by
                    the prevention of the further extension of slavery.
            Fortunately for the minority there happened in 
                        Indianapolis
                     an incident which brought home to Indiana people the workings of
                    the Fugitive Slave law. There appeared at 
                        Indianapolis
                     Pleasant Ellington, who claimed as his slave John Freeman, a
                    respected colored citizen of that city. Ellington had the proper papers showing
                    that Freeman was an escaped slave. Under the terms of the Fugitive Slave law
                    there was nothing to do but turn him over to Ellington, which would probably
                    have been done had not public sentiment been so strong that the court decided to
                    give Freeman nine weeks to prepare a defense. He succeeded in getting men to
                    come from 
                        Georgia
                     to testify that he was a free man. On the day of the trial
                    Ellington disappeared. There being a large crowd present, the meeting was turned
                    into a rousing anti-slavery meeting.33 Such incidents as
                    this served to stir up a bitter hostility toward the Fugitive Slave law and any
                    further extension of slavery. At a meeting of the Free Soilers at Lo-gansport in
                    September, 1853, it was resolved that they would refuse to obey the inhuman
                    demands of the Fugitive Slave law and that J. L. Robinson, 
                        United States
                     marshal of Indiana, should be presented, by the chairman of the
                    meeting, with a black leather collar marked "The Ellington watch-dog,
                    to be let at $3.00 per day."34
            
            While Indiana was interested in the slavery question from the viewpoint of the
                    fugitive Slave law it was also interested in the question of the further
                    extension of slavery into the territories. At this time interest was centered in 
                        Nebraska
                    , which had asked for admission to the Union seven times in
                    successive years, but had not been admitted. There was but one objection, the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise. Under the terms of this act 
                        Nebraska
                     must come in free. It was now intimated that the Compromise of 1820
                    must be repealed before 
                        Nebraska
                     could be admitted.35 By the terms of the
                    Douglas 
                  
                     33
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, July 30 and September 3, 1853; G. W. Julian,
                                Political Reminiscences, 133.
                  
                     34
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, September 10, 1853. Most people that that
                            Robinson had been too obliging to Ellington in this matter.
                  
                     35
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Morning Journal, December 26, 1853.
               
                    
               
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Bill the status of slavery in the territory formerly declared free
                    by the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise was to be determined by the people of the two
                    territories. What Douglas had in mind when he introduced the bill is now a hotly
                    disputed question.36 By some it was said that as long as the
                    principle of popular sovereignity served the interests of the South it would be
                    obeyed but that as soon as it failed to do so another
                    "compromise" would be made whereby the interests of the South
                    would be maintained.37 By others it was said that it was a
                    bid for the presidency.38 Still another view was that of
                    building up a sectional party which aimed at a dissolution of the Union.39
            
            Thus the question of the power of Congress over slavery in the territories was
                    reopened. It had been the feeling of the northern Democrats that Congress had
                    full power over slavery in the territories and that it could either legalize or
                    forbid the institution.40 Many Democrats held that Congress
                    should not exercise its power in this respect but should let the people of the
                    territories decide the question for themselves. The attitude of the Democrats of
                    Indiana was well expressed by the State Sentinel when it said:
                        
                        We do not believe that there is a Democrat within the State, who, if he
                            were a citizen of 
                                Nebraska
                            , or 
                                Kansas
                            , would vote to incorporate slavery among its elements. But
                            we view the question as one involving the constitutional right of a
                            people to make their own laws and regulate their own domestic
                                institutions.41
                  
                    
            
            From this quotation it will be seen that the Democrats of Indiana preferred to
                    think of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     question more in the light of an abstract question of the
                    constitution than a concrete question of the further extension of slavery.
            The reopening of this question brought dismay to the politicians.42 They were farsighted enough to realize that 
                  
                     36 Frank Heywood Hodder, "Genesis of the 
                                Kansas
                            -
                                Nebraska
                             Act." Proceedings of the State
                                Historical Society of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                
                     , 1912.
                  
                     37
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, January 28, 1854.
                  
                     38 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, January 31, 1854.
                  
                     39 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, May 26, 1854.
                  
                     40 O. M. Dickenson, Proceedings of
                                the Mississippi Valley Historical
                            Association, 1913, p. 197.
                  
                     41
                            State Sentinel, September 8, 1854.
                  
                     42
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, February 4, 1854.
               
                    breakers were dead ahead. To them the bill
                    was injudicious, especially in the light of the finality propositions of the
                    previous campaign. They feared a division of the party since the State platform
                    of 1852 had approved the finality clause of the national Democratic platform.
            When the North saw that the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Bill was directly opposed in principle to the former method of
                    settling the question of slavery in the territories, political compromise in
                    Congress, the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise became "sacred" and must be defended
                    at all hazards. They forgot that they had objected to its principle in the Texan
                    question and in the case of 
                        California
                    . In these two cases the principle of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise favored the extension of slavery, not its prevention.43 Now that its repeal favored the extension of slavery they
                    opposed its repeal. In defense of the bill the Democrats argued that the
                    principle of non-intervention by Congress left to the people, who were better
                    qualified to judge of their own interests than Congress, the decision of
                    questions of local interest.44 They held that this was the
                    position that 
                  Washington,
                            Jefferson
               , and 
                        Jackson
                     had held.45
            
            Its opponents fought it because it expressly repealed the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise and gave slavery an opportunity to extend itself into
                    territory once declared free "forever."46
                    While the bill stated that it was not its purpose to legislate slavery into 
                        Kansas
                     and 
                        Nebraska
                    ,47 Indiana men had considerable difficulty in
                    seeing why a slave holder should move there unless he felt that his property
                    would be protected.48 Again they could not reconcile the
                    view of the southern Democrats who stated that it was a pro-slavery measure,
                    with that of the northern democrats who held that it neither legislated slavery
                    into nor out of the territories.49 From the above statements
                    it appeared that the question, as far as Indiana was concerned, was one
                    concerning the extension of slavery rather than a question of the principles of
                    government.
            
               
                  43
                        State Sentinel, February 2, 1854.
               
                  44
                        State Sentinel, February 15, 1854.
               
                  45
                        State Sentinel, March S, 1854.
               
                  46 Rushville Republican, May 3,
                        1854.
               
                  47 TSee 
                            Kansas
                        -
                            Nebraska
                         Act.
               
                  48
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, April 6, 1854.
               
                  49
                        Weekly State Journal. September 16, 1854.
            
            
            While the people of the State were much aroused over the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Bill there was one set of men who were especially concerned as to
                    their course of action in regard to it. These men were Indiana's
                    representatives in the national congress. Whatever action they took was sure to
                    be criticized by the friends or the opponents of the bill. It was early known
                    that Senators Jesse D. Bright and John Pettit were in favor of it. Bright owned
                    a plantation in 
                        Kentucky
                     and was known to be friendly toward the slave interests. Pettit was
                    willing to support the measure although in 1849 he had written, 
                        Thnt Congress has the power to prohibit the introduction of slavery where
                            it does not exist, must be clear to everyone who has investigated the
                            subject, and is capable of reasoning.50
                  
                    
            
            Now he was favoring a bill which took the power from Congress. As a result it was
                    predicted that his political head would roll in the dust at the first stroke of
                    the political ax.51 Bright's time would expire in
                    1858, while Pettit's term would expire in 1855. Hence Pettit was more
                    immediately concerned than Bright.
            But the congressmen were more perplexed as to their course. Since public opinion
                    determined their chances for re-election some of Indiana's congressmen
                    were very anxious that their constituents should know their attitude toward the
                    bill. James H. Lane, of the Fourth district, was opposed to the bill because it,
                    by the Clayton amendment, prevented a foreigner from voting.52 Daniel Mace, of the Eighth district, in a letter to the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Courier stated that the bill was a violation of plighted
                    faith; that such a bill would shut out his constituents of limited means from
                    this territory or would bring them down to the social level of a slave if they
                    went to 
                        Kansas
                     or 
                        Nebraska
                    ; and that, since this issue did not enter into the previous
                    election, he would gladly resign if his action did not suit his constituents.53 Ebenezer M. Chamberlain, of the Tenth district, wrote to
                    the Morning Journal that 
                  
                     50
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, March 11, 1854.
                  
                     51 Rushville Republican, March
                            S, 1854.
                  
                     52
                            State Sentinel, March 24, 1854.
                  
                     53
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Morning Journal, February 11, 1854.
               
                     the Indiana delegation was solidly against
                    the bill which he did not think was an administration measure; and that he was
                    going to stand by the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise.54 Andrew J. Harlan, of the Eleventh
                    district, wrote: 
                        A question, however, has arisen of a very important character and is now
                            pending before Congress, which makes it necessary that I should confer
                            with my constituency as to the proper course for me to pursue.
                    
            
            He went on to say that he could not reconcile the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Bill with the national Democratic platform of 1852. Further on he
                    said: 
                        One great objection is the bringing of slave labor in competition with
                            the free labor and industry of my own race. The degrading and debasing
                            consequences that naturally grow up between free and slave labor is a
                            strong reason for my opposition.
                    
            
            In conclusion he said: 
                        I respectfully desire the Democracy of my district to express themselves
                            frankly, and invite all of my constituents to the subject without regard
                            to political proclivities.55
                  
                    
            
            These letters showed that the congressmen were facing a situation that had not
                    been looked for in 1852, and that they were somewhat puzzled as to their votes.
            Much interest was taken by the voters in the attitude of Indiana's
                    congressmen toward the bill. The Morning Journal of March 15,
                    1854, published the following as the probable vote of the Indiana congressmen:
                        
                        For—Smith Miller, First district; William II. English, Second
                            district; Cyrus L. Dunham, Third district; Thomas A. 
                                Hendricks
                            , Sixth district.
                        Against—J. II. Lane, Fourth district; Samuel W. Parker, Fifth
                            district; Daniel Mace, Eighth district; E. M. Chamberlain, Tenth
                            district; A. J. Harlan, Eleventh district.
                        Doubtful but inclined toward the bill—lohn G. Davis, Seventh district; 
                                Norman
                             Eddy, Ninth district.
                    
            
            This indicated that four were for the bill, five against it, and two doubtful but
                    friendly toward it.
            When it was proposed to throw the 
                        Nebraska
                     Bill into the Committee of Whole House the Indiana delegation
                    split, 
                  
                     54
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Morning Journal, February 22, 1854.
                  
                     55
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, March 18, 1854.
               
                     Chamberlain, Eddy, Harlan, Lane, Mace, and
                    Parker voting yea and Davis, Dunham, English, 
                        Hendricks
                    , and Miller voting nay.56 The resolution passed
                    by a vote of 110 to 95, with 29 not voting. It was looked upon as a death blow
                    to the measure. John D. Defrees, editor of the Morning
                    Journal, said: 
                        It will never get out of the committee and the conspirators who advocated
                            it will retire from political life just as fast as the people can reach
                                them.57
                  
                     We now see that Defrees had sensed the feeling of the people of Indiana
                    and the North since we know that the people did reach them in the following
                    election.
            Aiming to cause action upon the bill a resolution was passed with a view to its
                    immediate passage. Miller, English, Dunham, Lane, 
                        Hendricks
                    , Davis, and Eddy voted for it. Defrees prophesied that these seven
                    men would find if they dared to come out for re-election that they would be
                    defeated by the people of Indiana.58 A few days later
                    Chamberlain, Davis, Dunham, Eddy, English, Harlan, Lane, Mace, and Miller voted
                    yes on a resolution to end debate on the bill with Parker voting no.59
            
            Following is the analysis of the final vote on the bill in the House of
                    Representatives:
            
               
                  
                  For
                  Against
               
               
                  Democrats from slave States
                  58
                  2
               
               
                  Democrats from free States
                  43
                  43
               
               
                  Whigs from slave States
                  12
                  7
               
               
                  Whigs from free States
                  0
                  43
               
               
                  Free Soilers
                  0
                  5
               
               
                  Total
                  113
                  100
               
               
                  Northern absentees
                  9
                  
               
               
                  Southern absentees
                  11
                  
               
               
                  Total
                  20
                  
               
            
            Speaker Boyd, of 
                        Kentucky
                    , did not vote. This table shows that one-half of the Democratic
                    congressmen from the free 
                  
                     56
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Morning Journal, April 25, 1854.
                  
                     57
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Morning Journal, March 24, 1854.
                  
                     58
                            Weekly State Journal, May 20, 1854.
                  
                     59
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, May 23, 1854.
               
                     States voted against the bill and that the
                    Whigs of the free States and the Free Soilers voted solidly against it.
            Indiana congressmen voted as follows:60
            
            
                    For—Miller, English, Dunham, Lane. 
                            Hendricks
                        . Davis, Eddy.
                    Against—Parker, Mace, Harlan.
                    Not voting—Chamberlain, because of sickness in his family.61
               
                
            While the vote was not entirely unexpected Indiana voters pondered over it. When
                    the proposition to repeal the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise was first made Miller was the only Democrat known to
                    favor the bill.62 On its passage but three Democrats of the
                    State opposed it. What produced the change? It may be that the Democratic
                    representatives were influenced by the attitude of Senator Bright, the Democrat
                    political boss of Indiana. It may be that pressure brought to bear by the
                    national administration wheeled some of these men into supporting the measure.
                    Whatever may have been their reasons for their support of the measure it was
                    soon evident that Indiana was thoroughly aroused by the passage of the act.
            By the time for the meeting of the Democratic State convention on May 24, 1854,
                    at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , it was evident that there were two great questions to be acted
                    upon, Temperance and the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Bill. Democratic county conventions had taken a stand against the 
                        Maine
                     Law and in favor of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Bill. Before the day of the convention Oliver P. Morton went to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to use his influence among the delegates against the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Bill. But Bright and his henchmen had the delegates so well under
                    control that Morton could do nothing with them and was expelled from the
                    convention. It seems to have been a forgone conclusion that Bright and his men
                    would be able to force the convention to approve the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Bill.63 When the committee on resolutions
                    reported, it was found that the resolutions approved the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Bill, opposed the Clayton Amendment, opposed the 
                        Maine
                     Law, opposed the formation of a political party built upon the
                    temperance 
                  
                     60
                            Weekly Slate Journal, May 27, 1854.
                  
                     61
                            Weekly State Journal, June 3, 1854.
                  
                     62
                            Weekly State Journal, June 17, 1854.
                  
                     63
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                            Weekly Intelligencer, May 24, 1854.
               
                     question, and condemned the Know
                        Nothings.64 In looking over the platform it will be seen
                    that the convention turned its back upon the platform of 1849 and that the
                    platform wae a distinct bid for support of foreigners and Catholics.65
            
            
                    1. Resolved, That the Democrats of Indiana, fully approve
                        of the principles of the act extending the laws of the 
                            United States
                         over and organizing the Territories of 
                            Nebraska
                         and 
                            Kansas
                        .
                    2. Resolved. That we concur in the opinion that it is not
                        properly within the jurisdiction of Congress to determine the provisions of
                        the constitution of a state, further than to require that it be a republican
                        form, but on the contrary, that the people do possess the right and power to
                        adopt such form of government as they deem best suited to their views and
                        wants; and that this right should be recognized as one of the fundamental
                        principles of self-government.
                    3 Resolved, That this convention is distinctly opposed to
                        that provision of the 
                            Nebraska
                         and 
                            Kansas
                         Bill, commonly known as the Clayton Amendment, which made a
                        distinction between native born and foreign inhabitants, who may be
                        residents of the territories, and feel gratified that the efforts of the
                        Democracy have been successful in expunging that odious feature from the
                        act.
                    4. Resolved, That intemperance is a great moral and social
                        evil, for the restraint and correction of which legislative interposition is
                        necessary and proper; but that we cannot approve of any plan for the
                        eradication or correction of this evil that must necessarily result in the
                        infliction of greater ones; and that we are therefore opposed to any law
                        upon this subject that will authorize the searching for or seizure,
                        confiscation and destruction of private property.
                    5. Resolved, That we regard all political organizations,
                        based upon the single idea of temperance reform, as dangerous to the
                        perpetuity of our republican form of government, by withdrawing the
                        attention of the people from the great political principles upon which it is
                        founded; and that we most earnestly appeal to our fellow Democrats,
                        throughout the State, to adhere, in the selection of members of the
                        legislature, to the practice of choosing such men as will make these great
                        principles of Democratic policy, under the influence of which this country
                        has been brought to its present elevated and prosperous condition, paramount
                        to all other considerations.
                    6. Resolved. That we have full faith and confidence in the wisdom, patriotism
                        and ability of 
                            Franklin
                         Pierce, President of the 
                            United States
                        , and that we fully approve of the principles laid down in his
                        inaugural message, and his message to Congress, and that we most truly and
                        cordially endorse the general policy of his administration, as carried out
                        in conformity with the principles laid down in said message.
                    7. Resolved, That Judge Douglas of the U. S. Senate is
                        entitled to, and receives our hearty thanks, for so ably advocating the
                        principle of non-intervention, as contained in the 
                            Kansas
                         and 
                            Nebraska
                         Bill, and that we cordially endorse the action of our senators
                        and representatives in sustaining the same.
                    8. Resolved, That the Democracy of Indiana still adhering
                        to the constitution of the confederacy openly and avowedly condemn any
                        organization, secret or otherwise, that would aim to disrobe any citizen,
                        native, or adopted, of his political, civil, or religious liberty.
                
            When a large body of citizens feel that the most urgent need of the people cannot
                    be secured through the existing 
                  
                     64
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, June 24, 1854.
                  
                     65 W. E. 
                                Henry
                            , State Platforms, 9.
               
                     political parties it is time to organize a
                    new party to accomplish the desired result. This was felt to be the condition in
                    1854 in Indiana. Out of what elements did the new party arise? It came from the
                    elements of opposition to the Democratic party. We have seen the growth of the
                    temperance movement and also the antagonism of the Anti-
                        Nebraska
                     men of Indiana toward the old party. Since opposition to the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     act was the most powerful factor in determining the new party we
                    shall consider at this point the attitude of all who were not administration
                    Democrats toward the stand of the Democratic party.
            Although their party was practically disbanded at this time the Whigs were much
                    aroused over this new move in the interests of slavery. They had much to say
                    about the sacredness of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise and demanded the restoration of the line of
                    36° 30′.66 They believed in a
                    protective tariff and internal improvements, were Federalistic in tendency, and
                    were not Abolitionists, having considered the slavery question settled by the
                    finality measures of 1850.67 Early in 1854 it was wondered
                    if the Whig leaders would attempt to revive their party through temperance and Anti-
                        Nebraska
                     sentiment.68 This probably would have suited
                    the Democratic leaders since it might have prevented a new party from
                        forming.69
            
            Another element of opposition to the Democratic party was the Know Nothings, a
                    secret political organization which was very hostile to the influence of the
                    Papacy and to foreigners. They favored a twenty-one year naturalization law;
                    held that none but native Americans should hold office; demanded stricter
                    immigration laws and ample protection of all Protestant interests.70 At this time the organization was headed by Godlove S. Orth (Whig),
                    of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     county, and J. H. Cravens (Abolitionist), of 
                        Ripley
                     county.71 This party drew into its fold many
                    thousands of Democrats who were not bold enough to openly abandon their party.
                    Another effect was 
                  
                     66 Julian, Political
                            Recollections, 136.
                  
                     67 Julian, North American
                            Review, CXXVI, 264.
                  
                     68
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Pharos, March 1, 1854.
                  
                     69 Rushville Republican, June 7,
                            1854.
                  
                     70 Rushville Republican, June
                            21, 1854.
                  
                     71
                            State Sentinel, September 19, 1854.
               
                     the tendency to draw attention from the
                    real issue of the time toward the Papacy and Nativism.72
                    George W. Julian claimed that it was founded for this very purpose.73 There was no possibility of the Know Nothings supporting
                    the Democratic ticket in the coming campaign since the Democratic platform
                    specifically condemned "any organization, secret or otherwise, that
                    would aim to disrobe any citizen, native or adopted, of his political, civil, or
                    religious liberty."
            A third opposition party was the Free Soil party. As a national organization it
                    had stood for legislative prohibition of slavery in the territories, immigration
                    from Europe, and free trade.74 It cannot be said that the
                    Free Soilers were in favor of restoring the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise line because this would have meant the recognition of
                    the principle of compromise which they opposed.
            There was one more source of opposition to the Democratic party. This was the
                    Abolitionist sentiment. Men holding this radical opinion were not numerous but
                    were very outspoken in their views. At this time they were considered fanatics
                    and disunionists.75 The fact that some of them favored the
                    Fusion movement caused many Democrats to hesitate about allying with a party
                    which might be stigmatized is Abolitionist.
            In summing up the political conditions in 1854 we may say that while there were
                    many sources of dissatisfaction and opposition to the platform and principles of
                    the Democratic party of Indiana there was no party in Indiana capable of uniting
                    all the others into one great strong opposition party. Seeing this, the leaders
                    of these elements were anxious to bring about a general coalition on the
                    questions of the extension of slavery and temperance. Of these leaders four are
                    worthy of notice. 
                        Henry
                     S. Lane, of 
                        Montgomery
                     county; John D. Defrees, the wisest, shrewdest politician of the
                    State; Schuyler Colfax, brilliant speaker and editor of the 
                  
                            St. Joseph
                         Register; and Cyrus 
                        Allen
                    , a politician who probably controlled Indiana south of the National
                    Road, were strong for a 
                  
                     72 Morse, Political Science
                            Quarterly, VII, 522.
                  
                     73 Julian, Political
                            Recollections, 141.
                  
                     74 Julian, North American
                            Review, CXXVI, 263.
                  
                     75 Lew Wallace, Autobiography I.
                            240.
               
                     new party. The 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     act gave them their opportunity to unite the
                    "isms" into a new political party largely controlled by these
                        men.76 It is not the writer's intention to
                    leave the impression with the reader that these men deliberately encouraged the
                    temperance and Anti-
                        Nebraska
                     movements but it is his belief that they took advantage of these
                    issues after they had arisen.
            When the Democratic speakers began to prepare their campaign speeches they
                    discovered that the Democratic party was on the defensive. Lew Wallace says that
                    he had to meet the points of the opponents by "dodge, denial,
                    deprecation, or begging the question.77 The leading
                    Democrats of the State had in 1848 expressed views that could not be reconciled
                    with the Democratic principles of 1854. In discussing the power of Congress over
                    slavery in the territories, Governor Whitcomb said: 
                        Congress can, in my judgment, constitutionally prevent the introduction
                            of slavery into these territories.
                    
            
            E. A. Hannegan: 
                        I have no hesitation in saying that Congress does possess the power,
                            under the Constitution, of prohibiting slavery in the territories of New-
                                Mexico
                             and 
                                California
                            , or in any other territory, whilst the common property of
                            the confederacy.
                    
            
            John Law: 
                        I should deem any prospective action of Congress on this subject, both
                            legal and cnstitutional.
                    
            
            Robert Dale 
                        Owen
                    : 
                        Congress possesses the power to legislate on the subject of slavery in
                            the territories, throughout the term of their territorial existeuee.78
                  
                    
            
            Graham N. Fitch: 
                        That Congress has the power to prohibit the introduction of slavery into
                            our territories where it does not exist, must be clear to every one who
                            has investigated the subject and is capable of reasoning.79
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  76 Lew Wallace, Autobiography, I.
                        231; State Sentinel, July T, 1854, said that the leaders
                        of the Whigs were working to affect a coalition with the Abolitionists.
               
                  77 Lew Wallace, Autobiography, I,
                        237.
               
                  78
                        
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Daily Express, August 5, 1856.
               
                  79
                        Weekly State Journal, September 9, 1854.
            
            
            William J. 
                        Brown
                    , Editor of State Sentinel:  I am a representative from a free State, and have always
                        been opposed to the extension of slavery, and believe that the Federal
                        government should be relieved from the responsibility of slavery, where they
                        have the constitutional power to abolish it.80
               
            
            Not only did the speakers have such statements as those above to meet, but they
                    were confronted with the State Democratic resolutions of January 8, 1849, which
                    declared: 
                        
                     That the institution of slavery ought not to be
                            introduced into any territory where it does not now exist.
                        
                     That, inasmuch as 
                                California
                             and 
                                New Mexico
                             are in fact and in law free Territories, it is the duty of
                            Congress to prevent the introduction of slavery within their limits.81
                  
                    
            
            The fact of the matter was that the endorsement of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     act by the Democratic State convention could not be harmonized with
                    the stand taken by the leaders and the party in former years.
            The two planks in the State Democratic platform which caused the most
                    dissatisfaction were the endorsement of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Act and the opposition to the 
                        Maine
                     Law. Many were opposed to one or the other of these planks and
                    possibly more were opposed to both of them.8 It seemed to
                    many Democrats that the leaders of the party had come to the place where they
                    wanted the voter to vote for a set of officers who were to settle the questions
                    before the public in accordance with the views of the party leaders. These men,
                    however, felt that "bossism" must go and that they must elect
                    men who favored restoration of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise, no more slave States, and real popular sovereignty.
            
                    "What say you, Democrats, Whigs. Free Soilers and everybody else who
                        wants honesty and freedom, and don't want office?83
               
                
            When the full effect of the Democratic State platform dawned upon the Indianians
                    a serious question loomed up before them.
            
               
                  80
                        Weekly State Journal, October 7, 1834.
               
                  81
                        Weekly State Journal, June 3, 1854.
               
                  82
                        
                     
                                Rockport
                             Planter in Weekly State Journal,
                        June 10. 1954.
               
                  83 An old Jacksonian Democrat," in Weekly State Journal, April 17. 1854.
            
            
            
                    "Will the Democrats of the State swallow the dose prepared for them
                        by the leaders at the 
                            Indianapolis
                         convention"?84
               
                
            Undoubtedly sentiment was against the action of the State Democratic convention.
                    The editor of the 
                        Logansport
                    
                    Journal wrote that the people knew that Democratic sentiment
                    was violated by the convention which was controlled by Bright, Fitch, and
                    "watch-dog" Robinson.85 The editor of the
                    Rushville Republican wrote that he had made a diligent canvass
                    among his friends on the repeal of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise and that he neither saw nor heard of a single man in the
                    county who was favorable to its repeal.86 Would party
                    discipline be able to keep the Democrats in the organization or not? Could a man
                    who had been a Democrat up to 1849 now support the party? These were questions
                    that had to be settled.
            Not long after Douglas had introduced his 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Bill S. W. Ritchey, of 
                        Johnson
                     county, wrote a letter to the Morning Journal in
                    which he suggested that meetings be held in every county and every town of
                    Indiana to express disapproval of the bill.
            
                    "The spirit of Righteousness. Freedom, and Temperance, is one
                        spirit. and that of Wickedness, Slavery, and Drunkenness is the
                            other".87
               
                
            Following this suggestion meetings were held at different places to discuss the
                    "outrages." At 
                        Logansport
                    , March 4, 1854, a meeting was held for the purpose of having a free
                    and honest expression of opinion on the bill, but it so happened that the
                    politicians warded off such an expression and succeeded in getting the meeting
                    adjourned to meet on March 8, 1854, when a noisy meeting was held but no
                    resolutions were passed.88 An Anti-
                        Nebraska
                     meeting was held at Nobles-ville, in which members of all parties
                    passed resolutions protesting against the repeal of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise and instructing Mr. Harlan to vote against any attempt
                    to do so.89 May 13, at West Union, the establishment of
                    slavery in the 
                  
                     84 Rushville Republican, June 7,
                            1854.
                  
                     85
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, June 3, 1854.
                  
                     86 Rushville Republican, June
                            21, 1854.
                  
                     87
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Morning Journal, February 9, 1854.
                  
                     88
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, March 11, 1854.
                  
                     89
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Morning Journal, May 20, 1854.
               
                     territories by Congress was protested and
                    the politicians were censured for attempting to do so.90 At
                    the regular meeting of the Free Democratic Association of the State in May it
                    was resolved that the passage of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Act was an insult to the American people; that a prohibitory law
                    should be enacted; and that a State convention be held for the purpose of
                    combining all the elements of opposition to the act.00 (a)
                    At 
                        Lafayette
                     Representative Mace explained his vote on the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Act and resolutions were passed repudiating the principles adopted
                    by the State Democratic convention; demanding a restoration of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise line; and calling for conventions, State, congressional,
                    and county.91 At 
                        Indianapolis
                     Mr. Mace addressed a large meeting of Anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats with Jacob P. Chapman as chairman. Here it was resolved
                    that during the administration of 
                  Monroe, Adams, Jackson
               , Van Buren, 
                        Harrison
                    , Polk, and Taylor the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise was a "finality"; 
                        that when well established party creeds are violently departed from, and
                            great moral questions placed at issue we will remain untranimeled by
                            party appliances or nominations, and sustain such men and measures as
                            will best illustrate and carry out true principles; that the late
                            Democratic Convention misrepresents a large majority of the voters of
                            the State; and that county and congressional meetings be held in which
                            free expression of opinion may be had on the measures necessary in this
                                crisis.92
                  
                     June 9, at 
                        Greensburg
                    , the Anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats bolted the regular convention and resolved that the
                    non-intervention and the temperance planks of the late State convention were put
                    through by "demagogues, slaveholders, and whiskey
                        politicians."93 The call for 
                        Hendricks
                     county invited every "true" Democrat who endorsed
                    the 
                        Baltimore
                     platform, opposed the repeal of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise, and desired the suppression of the liquor traffic to
                    meet at Danville, June 17. An address was issued to the public of which the
                    following is an extract: 
                  
                            
                        90
                                Weekly State Journal, May 20, 1854.
                            (a) 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                Daily Journal, May 29, 1854.
                        
                  
                     91 Rushvillo Republican, June 7,
                            1854.
                  
                     92
                            Weekly State Journal, June 3, 1854.
                  
                     93
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, June 21, 1854.
               
                    
                    
                        Democrats, Arouse! Those who aspire to be our leaders have betrayed us at
                            the late packed convention; leaving the oldest cherished principles of
                            Democracy, for which we have so long and triumphantly battled, they have
                            attempted to bind us to the slave driver of the South and the rum-seller
                            of the North. Shall we submit to this gross inipositionV Let the answer
                            ring, never! never!94
                  
                    
            
            The first county convention was held at 
                        Madison
                    , June 13, in which J. A. 
                        Hendricks
                     and M. C. Garber, prominent Democrats, took part. It recommended a
                    State Convention for July 13, 1854, and held that the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Act was in direct opposition to the principles of the
                    "Fathers of the Republic," and that it was in direct violation
                    of the Democratic platform of 1852. This meeting was considered by the editor of
                    the Weekly State Journal as the beginning of the
                        "movement."95
            
            Since the "Old Line" Democrats had been asserting that the
                    movement was an attempt on the part of the Whigs to revive their defunct party
                    it was the policy of the Whig leaders to wait for some Anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrat to issue a call for a State mass meeting. This would tend
                    to make the movement appear Democratic, not Whig.96 Jacob P.
                    Chapman, editor of the Chanticleer, and an independent Anti-
                        Nebraska
                     candidate for Congress from the Sixth district, has the honor of
                    issuing the call in his paper, June 15. He announced that a meeting would be
                    held in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , July 13, to adopt such measures as may be deemed proper to meet
                    the present crisis.97 It is significant to note that the
                    meeting was called for July 13, the anniversary of the Ordinance of 1787, which
                    devoted the Northwest Territory to freedom. Four days later appeared a call for
                    a State convention signed by sixty-eight men of 
                  Floyd, Parke, Ripley
               , and 
                        Dearborn
                     counties.98 The men signing the call were
                    mostly Democrats, seventeen Whigs, and two Free Soilers.99
            
            About the same time there appeared in the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    American the following: 
                  
                     94
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, June 24, 1854.
                  
                     95
                            Weekly State Journal, June 17, 1854.
                  
                     96 Hollister, Life of Colfax,
                            73.
                  
                     97
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, June 16, 1854.
                  
                     98
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, June 19, 1854.
                  
                     99 Rushville Republican, June
                            21, 1854.
               
                    
                    
                        That the freemen of Indiana must bold a convention to agree upon tbe
                            measures to be adopted to resist the demands of slavery, is beyond
                            question. We would suggest that it be held in 
                                Indianapolis
                             on Thursday the 13th of July, the anniversary of the
                            adoption of the Ordinance of 1787.100
                  
                    
            
            Public sentiment was expressed in the meetings being held in 
                        various places
                    . A county convention of 
                        Henry
                     county, June 3, put a ticket in the field, called a congressional
                    convention for July 6, at 
                        Cambridge
                     City, approved the course of Parker, Harlan, and Mace, and demanded
                    a prohibitory law.101 A call was sent out from the citizens
                    of 
                        Wayne
                     county, regardless of party names, to meet at Dublin, June 23, to
                    effect an organization of the friends of free territory.102
                    The Mississinewa Gazette had a call signed by sixty Democrats
                    for a meeting, to be held at 
                        Marion
                    , June 24, of all Democrats opposed to the
                    "infamous" 
                        Nebraska
                     Bill.103 At 
                        Noblesville
                    , June 24, Democrats, Free Soilers, and Whigs decided not to support
                    any man who was not openly against the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     act and urging all to attend the mass meeting at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , July 13.104 Sixty-five Democrats of 
                        Wabash
                     county issued a call for a mass meeting for June 10
            
                    to express their sentiments, independent of party dictation and in such terms
                        that wrong doers and endorsers of the infamy of the 
                            Nebraska
                         Bill, may understand and fear ∗
                        ∗
                        ∗ Let all come. The Democracy of 
                            Wabash
                         county know, and fear no power that can make them countenance
                        wrong, they work in no party traces, under tbe lash, and swallow no bitter
                        pill compounded by political quacks.105
               
                
            At 
                        Lafayette
                    , July 1, it was resolved to abandon former party ties and support
                    only Anti-
                        Nebraska
                     men and that ministers should speak their sentiments from the
                    pulpit regardless of political consequences.106
            
            From these calls and resolutions it appears that there was intense hostility to
                    the repeal of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise; that this act was looked upon as one pushed through by
                    the politicians and not demanded by the people; that a 
                  
                     100 Rushville Republican, June
                            21, 1854.
                  
                     101
                            Weekly State Journal, June 17, 1854.
                  
                     102
                            Weekly State Journal, June 24, 1854.
                  
                     103
                            Weekly State Journal, June 24, 1854.
                  
                     104
                            Weekly State Journal, July 1, 1854.
                  
                     105
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, June 6, 1854.
                  
                     106
                            Weekly State Journal, July 8, 1854.
               
                     prohibitory law was demanded; that the
                    State Democratic convention drafted a platform that suited the leaders but not
                    the rank and file of the Democratic party; that this platform did not represent
                    the true principles of the Democratic party; that Democrats seemed to be the
                    leaders of the movement; and that men were ready to lay aside their old
                    political affiliations and attempt to secure what they wanted through a new
                    political organization.
            One of the most widely read addresses on the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Act was that issued by the members of Congress who had voted
                    against the 
                        Nebraska
                     Bill. This address gave a discussion of the slavery question from
                    1783 to the present time, showing the increasing demands of the South and asking
                    if the North was willing to make a complete submission to their demands.107
            
            As the day of the State convention approached the interest grew more intense. The
                    hoped for coalition seemed about to become a reality. Men came into 
                        Indianapolis
                     in all kinds of conveyances from all directions. It was estimated
                    that there were ten thousand present when the meeting opened. On the night
                    before the meeting a preliminary meeting was held in 
                        Washington
                     Hall with Jacob P. Chapman of 
                        Marion
                     county as chairman. Chapman gave as his reason for being in
                    opposition to his party the fact that he did not feel that it was the purpose of
                    real democracy to extend slavery. Schuyler Colfax, S. S. Harding, 
                        Henry
                     S. Lane, Judge J. W. Wright, and Reuben A. Riley also addressed the
                        meeting.108
            
            Such a political gathering as the one J. P. Chapman faced when he called this one
                    to order on the courthouse lawn had never been seen in the State of Indiana. Men
                    of all politics were there, many of whom had for years been prominent in
                    Democratic meetings but who now were ready to repudiate the present position of
                    the Democratic party.109 These men were tired of the
                    dictation of Bright and his friends and were now ready to do their own
                        thinking.110 Know Nothings, Free Soilers, and a few
                    Abolitionists were on hand. Every element of 
                  
                     107
                            Weekly Slate Journal, July 8, 1854.
                  
                     108
                            Weekly State Journal, July 15, 1854.
                  
                     109
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, July 22, 1854.
                  
                     110 Rushville Republican, July
                            19, 1854.
               
                     opposition to the Democratic party was
                    present. The honor of being the president of the meeting fell to Thomas H. Smith
                    of 
                        Ripley
                     county who, after being introduced by M. C. Garber of 
                        Jefferson
                     county, made an address the tenor of which was that the masses were
                    ready to pursue their own ideas of right rather than obey the dictates of the
                    party leaders. He took the ground that the majority of the Democrats were
                    opposed to the present attitude of the party. He also appealed to the Ordinance
                    of 1787 which devoted the Northwest Territory to freedom. 
                        Henry
                     S. Lane, Rev. George B. Jocelyn, and H. L. Ellsworth also addressed
                    the meeting. In the afternoon J. A. 
                        Hendricks
                    , and ex-Governor Bebb of 
                        Ohio
                     spoke. At the conclusion of Bebb's speech the committee on
                    resolutions brought in their report, the first platform of the People's
                    Party of Indiana.111
            
            They drafted a platform opposing the extension of slavery, demanding the
                    restoration of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise line, urging the passage of a "judicious,
                    constitutional and efficient prohibitory law," and condemning the
                    attacks that have been made by the Democrats upon the Protestant ministry.112
            
            
               
                  111
                        
                            Logansport
                        
                        Pharos, July 19, 1854. Following is the committee on
                        Resolutions: First district, A. L. Robinson, Abolitionist; .Second district,
                        T. H. Pucker, Whig; Third district, J. A. 
                            Hendricks
                        , Democrat; Fourth district. Dr. E. B. Collins, Temperance;
                        Fifth district, G. W. Julian, Abolitionist; Sixth district, W. J. Peaslee,
                        Know Nothing; Seventh district, J. P. Yancey, Know Nothing; Eighth district.
                        O. 1,. Clarke, Whig; Ninth district, W. J. Walker, Whig; Tenth district, T.
                        J. Harris, Whig; Eleventh district, C. I). Murray, Whig.
               
                        
                     112 W. E. 
                                Henry
                            , State Platforms, 10.
                        
                     Whereas, We the freemen of Indiana, without respect to
                            party, and actuated by a common devotion to our republic and a common
                            reverence for its founders, have assembled ourselves together in the
                            commemoration of the passage of the Ordinance of July 13, 1787,
                            consecrating the N. W. Territory to freedom and whereas, the unanimous adoption of said Ordinance, by the
                            representatives of all the States in the Union, at that date, clearly
                            evinces that opposition to the extension of slavery, to the extent of
                            constitutional power, was the fixed policy of our fathers; and, whereas, we regard the recent repeal of the 8th
                            section of the 
                                Missouri
                             Compromise, as a gross and wanton violation of the faith of
                            the Union, plighted to a solemn compact, restricting the extension of
                            slavery. Therefore, Resolved, That we are
                            uncompromisingly opposed to the extension of slavery ; and further, that
                            we utterly deprecate and repudiate the platform of principles adopted by
                            the self-styled Democratic convention on the 24th day of May last,
                            endorsing and approving the 
                                Kansas
                            -
                                Nebraska
                             iniquity.
                        
                     Resolved, That we will waive all former party
                            predilections, and, in concert, by all lawful means seek to place every
                            branch of the federal government in the hands of men who will assert the
                            rights of freedom, restore the 
                                Missouri
                             Compromise, and refuse, under all circumstances, to
                            tolerate the extension of Slavery into territories secured to freedom by
                            that compromise.
                        
                     Resolved, That we regard intemperance as a great
                            political, moral and 
                    
            
            
            The first two planks of this platform were put in for the Free Soilers and the Anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats. The third satisfied the temperance men, while the last
                    was evidently a bid for the vote of the Protestant churches, especially the
                    Methodist.
            There was no Know Nothing plank in the platform probably due to the fact that
                    since the organization was not well thought of it would not have been good
                    policy for an opposition party to put in a Know Nothing plank. The temperance
                    plank did not openly stand for "search, seizure, and
                    destruction," being so worded, however, that it could be so
                    interpreted. It seems as though the convention feared to declare for a "
                        Maine
                     Law" because many Anti-
                        Nebraska
                     men were opposed to a "
                        Maine
                     Law".113 Truly may it be said that
                    this platform was a "fusion" affair.
            George W. Julian made a minority report in favor of restricting, discouraging,
                    and denationalizing slavery, so far as it could constitutionally be done;
                    opposing the repeal of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise as a link in the great effort to nationalize slavery and
                    urging that the repeal of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise by "southern politicians and northern
                    traitors" released the North from its duty of acquiescing in and
                    obeying the Compromise of 1850.114 He also introduced a
                    resolution stating that 
                        we are in favor of a law that will effectually prohibit the manufacture
                            and traffic in intoxicating drinks as a beverage.115
                  
                    
            
            These resolutions were voted down, being looked upon as too radical.
            When the nominating committee made its report it was 
                  
                            social evil, a legitimate subject of legislation, and that we are in
                                favor of the passage of a judicious, constitutional and efficient
                                prohibitory law, with such penalties as shall effectually suppress
                                the traffic in intoxicating liquors as a beverage.
                            
                        Resolved, That we utterly condemn the abusive
                                attacks which have recently been made, from various quarters, on the
                                Protestant ministry of the country. We cherish with gratitude, and
                                pleasure, the memory of their patriotic zeal in the Revolutionary
                                struggle, and we recognize in the ministry of the country the worthy
                                sons of such Illustrious sires.
                        
                  
                     113
                            State Sentinel, July 22, 1854.
                  
                     114
                            State Sentinel, July 25, 1854.
                  
                     115
                            State Sentinel, July 22, 1854.
               
                     found that in accordance with the
                        thought110 of the leaders of the fusion movement, three
                    Democrats and two Whigs were put on the ticket.117
            
            The State Sentinel introduced the Free Soil 
                        Maine
                     Law ticket as follows: 
                        E. B. Collins, Free Soil. Maiue Law, Know Nothing.
                        H. E. Talbott, 
                                Maine
                             Law, Know Nothing.
                        W. R. Nofslnger, Free Soil, 
                                Maine
                             Law.
                        S. B. Gookins, Whig, Free Soil, 
                                Maine
                             Law.
                        Caleb Mills, Whig. Free Soil, 
                                Maine
                             Law.118
                    
            
            In such a movement it is always necessary to satisfy to some extent each of the
                    combining elements. The Free Soil-ers were satisfied although they had no men
                    upon the ticket. The Whigs got all they expected and surrendered no principle of
                    their party. The temperance men were satisfied with the attitude of the platform
                    toward the 
                        Maine
                     Law. The Democrats were pleased because they felt that they were
                    standing on the principles of the founders of their party and were no longer
                    controlled by the Bright crowd.119 J. P. Chapman thought
                    that the nomination of a State ticket was a mistake. He criticized the
                    temperance plank in the platform as being too indefinite. According to his view
                    he would have made the fight on the national representatives and on the members
                    of the State legislature which was to choose a successor to Senator Pettit.120
            
            The day before the People's mass meeting of July 13, 1854, the Sentinel stated that it would be a meeting of Whigs, Free
                    Soilers, Abolitionists, Native Americans, and Democrats who had been
                    disappointed by not getting office. The editor said that it was really a Whig
                    meeting supported by two great auxiliaries, Native Americanism and Abolition;
                    that this meeting would contain more political curiosities than have ever been
                    assembled for political purposes.121 On the 13th 
                  
                     116
                            Weekly State Journal, July 15, 1854.
                  
                     117
                            Weekly State Journal, July 15, 1854. Secretary of
                            State, E. B. Collins. 
                                Dearborn
                             county, Democrat; Auditor, H. E. Talbott, 
                                Putnam
                             county. Democrat; Treasurer, W. R. Nofsinger, 
                                Parke
                             county, Democrat; Judge Superior Court, S. B. Gookins, 
                                Vigo
                             county, Whig; Superintendent of Schools, Caleb Mills, Whig.
                  
                     118 State Sentinel, July 25,
                            1854.
                  
                     119
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, July 22, 1854.
                  
                     120 Chapman's Chanticleer, July 20, 1854.
                  
                     121
                            tate Sentinel, July 12, 1854.
               
                     of July the Sentinel
                    declared that all the broken down hacks in politics who felt that they had been
                    abused by the people had met to enliven the corpse of Whiggery with the breath
                    of Abolitionism. "Nobody believes that the jarring elements of the
                    so-called People's mass meeting can ultimately combine".122 According to the editor of the Sentinel the People's mass meeting was 
                        composed of all the odds and ends of society, politics and religion.
                            Abolitionism, Know-Nothingisni, hypocrisy, and bad liquor formed such a
                            compound of villainous smells as never offended nostril.123
                  
                    
            
            It was widely believed by the Democrats that the People's mass meeting
                    had been planned at 
                        Washington
                     by Giddings, Chase, Seward, and other Abolition leaders124 and that the movement was an attempt, on the part of the
                    Whig leaders, to transfer the Whigs to the Abolitionists.125
                    As to its direct effect upon the Democratic party they could see but one, a
                    split in their party.126
            
            Two days before the opening of the People's convention the Know Nothings
                    met in council in the Masonic Hall at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Being a secret society the purpose of this meeting was not made
                    public although it was thought that some move toward fusion would be made since
                    there were so many disgruntled Democrats in the organization. In this secret
                    conclave a ticket was nominated which was put before the People's
                    convention and renominated July 13, 1854.127 George W.
                    Julian asserted that this was true as did David Turpie when he said: 
                        The opposition was at that time called the People's party, but
                            the nominations, the active organization and movements of the party,
                            were all controlled by a clandestine association within its lines known
                            as the Order of Native Americans, commonly called Know Nothings.128
                    
            
            There seems to be no doubt that the Know Nothings took part in the
                    People's convention and put their ticket through. This put the stigma
                    of Know Nothingism upon the new party. 
                  
                     122 State Sentinel, July 13,
                            1854.
                  
                     123
                            State Sentinel, October 26, 1854.
                  
                     124 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, June 17, 1854.
                  
                     125 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, June 17, 1854.
                  
                     126
                            State Sentinel, July 26, 1854.
                  
                     127
                            State Sentinel, July 27, 1854.
                  
                     128 Turpie, Sketches of My Own
                            Times, 153.
               
                     The Democratic Pharos
                    described the mass meeting by saying that the ticket nominated by the Know
                    Nothings the day before was named; that Abolitionism preponderated numerically ;
                    that the Know Nothings presided and ruled; that Whigg-ism applauded; and that 
                        Maine
                     Lawism stood in the background faintly assenting.129
            
            The attitude of the Democrats toward the new party was well illustrated by the
                    following incident. When it was seen that a monster crowd was coming to 
                        Indianapolis
                     a committee was appointed to select a place for the meeting. These
                    men approached Gordon Tanner, State librarian, and asked for the use of the
                    Statehouse yard. Tanner replied after due deliberation, by a letter addressed
                    "To the committee appointed by the
                    Abolition-Freesoil-Mainelaw-NativeAmerican-Anti-Catholic-AntiNebraska party of
                        Indiana".130 During the campaign the
                    "Old Line" Democrats stigmatized the Fusionists as
                    Abolitionists, 
                        Maine
                     Law Men, and Know Nothings, these terms being more or less odious
                    to the citizens of the State.
            When it was seen that a new party might be formed the State
                    Sentinel stated that Temperance, Free Soil, Abolition, and Native
                    Americanism would be the elements of the new party.131 It
                    went on to say that the principal and important object of the convention which
                    was to meet in 
                        Indianapolis
                     was to nominate men opposed to the 
                        Nebraska
                     Bill and in favor of the principles of the Free Soilers around
                    which the party was to be built with the aid of the temperance men.132
            
            The 
                        Greensburg
                    
                    Press (Whig) said: 
                        We are in favor of a new party—the People's party,
                            and our motto. "Search, seizure, confiscation and
                            destruction" to all political hucksters and soulless
                                doughfaces.133
                  
                    
            
            J. L. Robinson at Rushville characterized the Fusion party as one gotten up to
                    remodel the old Whig party by adopting new principles.134
            
            George W. Julian characterized it as a "mere political
                    combination" 
                  
                     129
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Democratic Pharos, July 19, 1854.
                  
                     130
                            Weekly State Journal, July 15, 1854.
                  
                     131
                            State Sentinel, February 22, 1854.
                  
                     132
                            State Sentinel, February 23, 1854.
                  
                     133
                            State Sentinel, March 23, 1854.
                  
                     134 Rushville Republican, Aug.
                            30, 1854.
               
                     in which the members were hopelessly
                    divided on every question except slavery. He also said that anyone would have
                    been laughed at who thought that this was to be a permanent organization since
                    it was not thought possible to harmonize the differences of the individual
                        members.135 He also said that the party subordinated
                    every principle to its desire for political success.136
            
            Members of the new party in speaking of the People's party explained its
                    origin by saying that men of all parties and of no party had laid aside
                    political bias and entered the campaign to preserve one of the great fundamental
                    principles of the founders of the government.137 From this
                    it appears that the members of the new party were anxious to have it understood
                    that they were acting from principle and that the Democratic party had left them
                    rather than that they had left the party.
            The two leading questions that confronted the voter were the extension of slavery
                    and the liquor question. The Democrats maintained that they were not a
                    pro-slavery party but that they believed in the principle of permitting each
                    citizen who lives in a territory to say whether or not slavery shall exist there
                    when statehood is reached. It was their contention that this view was thoroughly
                    democratic and that, by its adoption, the people would determine the conditions
                    under which they should live. In regard to the 
                        Nebraska
                     act they stoutly maintained that climatic and geographical
                    conditions had already determined that slavery could not exist in 
                        Kansas
                     and 
                        Nebraska
                    . As to temperance it was asserted that they deplored the evils of
                    intemperance but were unalterably opposed to the principle of "search,
                    seizure, confiscation, and destruction" of the 
                        Maine
                     Law since such a law was clearly unconstitutional, impracticable,
                    and not supported by the teachings of the Bible.138
            
            The People's party was hostile to any law which would give the South an
                    opportunity to extend slavery. Although the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     act specifically stated that it was not its purpose 
                  
                     135 Julian. North American
                            Review, CXXVI, 266.
                  
                     136 Julian, American Historical
                                Review, IV, 313.
                  
                     137 Losansport Journal, Sept. 9,
                            1854.
                  
                     138
                            Weekly State Journal, Sept. 20, 1834.
               
                     to legislate slavery into 
                        Kansas
                     and 
                        Nebraska
                     yet it gave the slaveholder an opportunity to vote for the
                    extension of his system and for this reason was bitterly opposed by the members
                    of the People's party. The stand of these men on temperance was for
                    prohibition of the sale of intoxicating liquors. They did not propose to prevent
                    the use of liquor in the home as long as it was not sold there.139 From this discussion it will be seen that the two parties were
                    diametrically opposed on the issues before the voters of Indiana.
            As is usually the case when a man has the stamina to leave his former political
                    associates and become a member of a new party, the Anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats were looked upon as renegades and traitors and were often
                    read out of the party. This fate befell W. J. Peaslee of 
                        Shelby
                     county, James Ritchey of 
                        Johnson
                     county, J. P. Chapman and Lucien Barbour of 
                        Marion
                     county at the hands of the Democratic convention of the Sixth
                    congressional district. The resolutions which placed these men without the
                    Democratic party were designated by Editor Defrees as the "Bull of
                        Ex-communication".140
            
            The interest in the campaign seemed to center in the congressional elections and
                    in the selection of State legislators. Since Senator Pettit's term
                    would expire in 1855 the next legislature would select his successor. Pettit was
                    anxious to succeed himself in spite of the fact that his utterances on the power
                    of Congress over slavery in the territories were in flat contradiction to each
                    other. In order to secure his election it was necessary to have a Democratic
                    majority in each House of the State legislature. Hence he stumped the State.
            In the First district Smith Miller was renominated by the Democrats. Against him
                    was nominated Samuel Hall by the People's convention. In the Second
                    district W. H. English was opposed by Thomas C. Slaughter, a Know Nothing. In
                    the Third district Colonel J. A. 
                        Hendricks
                     came out for the Fusion nomination but retired in favor of George
                    G. Dunn. Cyrus L. Dunham was again nominated by the Democratic convention. Since
                    all three of these districts were in the southern part of Indiana and were
                    strongly Democratic the party leaders felt safe in running men who had voted for
                    the 
                  
                     139
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Dollar Weekly Courier, Oct. 11, 1854.
                  
                     140
                            Weekly State Journal, August 12, 1854.
               
                    
                    
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     act as Miller, English, and Dunham had done.
            James H. Lane of the Fourth district, who had at first opposed the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Bill but had voted for it, decided on account of ill health to
                    retire. His opponents claimed that he had seen defeat staring him in the face
                    and that this was the real reason for his decision.141 W. S.
                    Holman was put up by the Democrats to succeed Lane. The People's
                    candidate was William Cumback, a Know Nothing, who had been a delegate to the
                    Democratic State convention and had been read out of the party because he would
                    not endorse its platform. In the Fifth district S. W. Parker refused to run
                    again saying that he had had all the public life that he cared for. David P.
                    Holloway, a former Whig, was the nominee. In the Sixth district Jacob P. Chapman
                    announced his candidacy as an independent candidate but after the formation of
                    the People's party in July withdrew in favor of whomever might be
                        nominated.142 Lucian Barbour, who was accused of being a
                    Know Nothing, was the Fusion candidate,143 while Thomas A. 
                        Hendricks
                    , who had voted for the "
                        Nebraska
                     iniquity" was chosen by the Democrats. In the Seventh
                    district John G. Davis was renominated by the Democratic convention, his
                    opponent being Harvey D. 
                        Scott
                    , a Know Nothing. In the Eighth District Daniel Mace, who had voted
                    against the "
                        Nebraska
                     Swindle", was chosen as the nominee of the
                    People's party. The "Old Line Democracy" ran James
                    Davis. In the Ninth district Schuyler Colfax, a Know Nothing, ran against 
                        Norman
                     Eddy, a supporter of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     act. In the Tenth district Samuel Brenton was pitted against E. M.
                    Chamberlain who now "acquiesced". In the Eleventh district
                    since the Free Soilers held the balance of power the People's party had
                    to put up John U. Pettit, a Van Buren Free Soiler.144 His
                    opponent was James R. Slack. A. J. Harlan, who had voted against the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Bill but now "acquiesced", lost the support of
                    the Anti-
                        Nebraska
                     men and was not renominated.145
            
            
               
                  141
                        Weekly State Journal, July 8, 1854.
               
                  142
                        Weekly State Journal, June 10, 1854 ; August 12, 1854.
               
                  143
                        State Sentinel, August 4, 1854.
               
                  144
                        Weekly State Journal, Sept. 2, 1854.
               
                  145
                        State Sentinel, July 7, 1854.
            
            
            Since the temperance and slavery questions were more or less of moral questions
                    the Methodists of Indiana took a very active part in the campaign. In the
                    conferences it was resolved to work for a prohibitory law and to support no man
                    who would not pledge himself to vote for the restoration of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise.140
            
            During the agitation which swept over the country after the introduction of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Bill a petition, signed by 3000 New 
                        England
                     clergymen, protesting against the bill as a great moral wrong, as a
                    breach of faith and as a measure dangerous to the peace and the safety of the
                    Union was presented to Douglas.147 This angered Douglas and
                    caused him to denounce bitterly the signers of the petition. These preachers
                    were much abused by the Democrats on the ground that preachers ought to preach,
                    and not mix in politics.148 It was suggested that it would
                    be interesting to know how many of these men had been accused or convicted of
                    crimes against the divine, the moral, or the statutory code; how many of them
                    had been in prison; how many had run away with other men's wives; how
                    many had been guilty of seduction; and how many were addicted to the drink
                        habit.149 John L. Robinson stumped the State denouncing
                    these men as Know Nothings. Because of the activity of the Protestant ministers
                    in behalf of the People's party Robinson called them
                    "itinerant vagabonds"150 At New 
                        Albany
                     in explaining this expression Robinson said that he meant only
                    those Methodist lecturers who wandered from courthouse to courthouse denouncing
                    all who did not agree with them.151 He showed his
                    appreciation of temperance lecturers by calling them "vagabond
                        lecturers."152 Democratic papers seriously
                    objected to the part taken by the Protestant ministers in the campaign.
            When the Democrats realized that they had a serious fight on hand and that their
                    prospects for success were not encouraging they appealed to their former
                    enemies, the Whigs, to 
                  
                     146
                            State Sentinel, July 30, 1854; August 24, 1854.
                  
                     147 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, March 30, 1854.
                  
                     148 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, March 30, 1854.
                  
                     149 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Dailey Ledger, April 1, 1854.
                  
                     150 Rushville Republican, May
                            30, 1854.
                  
                     151 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, June 22, 1854.
                  
                     152
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                            Weekly Intelligencer, June 21, 1854.
               
                     unite with them in defeating the
                    Abolitionists. It was argued that Webster and 
                        Clay
                    , if living, would not be found in the new party and that there were
                    no questions at issue between national Whigs, who had represented the principles
                    of nonintervention, and the Democratic party.153 Young Whigs
                    were advised to consider well the effect that affiliating with the
                    People's party, a party which could never survive, would have upon
                    their future political prospects.154
            
            During the campaign the Know Nothings under the leadership of Codlove S. Orth of 
                        Lafayette
                     undoubtedly played a considerable part. While the principles of the
                    organization were said to be opposition to foreigners and to Catholicism the
                    Democrats thought that the organization was a society which had been organized
                    for the purpose of destroying the Democratic party.155 They
                    maintained that it was composed of every kind of opponents of the Democratic
                        party156 and that its influence was pernicious since it
                    controlled every election which came off.157 The Democrats
                    were very hostile to the Know Nothings.
            What did the election mean to Indiana? A few days before the election the Sentinel came out with a stirring appeal to the members of the
                    Democratic party when it said; 
                        Democrats, you are battling for your country, for the Constitution, for
                            the holy and blessed Union which our fathers made, for Popular
                            Sovereignty and Popular Kights, for Civil and Religious Liberty, for the
                            glorious cause of National Democracy, the prayers and benedictions of
                            patriotism and downtrodden humanity are being poured forth for your
                            success. On! Freemen ! On to Victory!158
                  
                    
            
            When the campaign had closed and the vote was counted the People's party
                    had elected the State ticket by about thirteen thousand.150
                    The next State legislature was to have a Senate of 26 Democrats and 24
                    Fusionists and the House of Representatives was to have 43 Democrats and 57
                        Fusionists.160 On join ballot the Fusionists would have
                    a majority 
                  
                     153
                            State Sentinel, Sept. 21, 1854.
                  
                     154
                            State Sentinel, June 3, 1854.
                  
                     155
                            State Sentinel, Sept. 19, 1854.
                  
                     156
                            State Sentinel, Sept. 21. 1854.
                  
                     157 Rushville Republican, Oct.
                            18, 1854.
                  
                     158
                            State Sentinel, Democratic Platform, Oct. 7, 1854.
                  
                     159
                            State Sentinel, Oct. 26, 1854.
                  
                     160
                            State Sentinel, Oct. 26, 1854.
               
                     of 12. In the national House of
                    Representatives Miller and English were Democrats while Dunn, Cumback, Holloway,
                    Barbour, 
                        Scott
                    , Mace, Colfax, Brenton, and Pettit were Fusionists.161
            
            The Democrats attributed their defeat (1) to the Anti-
                        Nebraska
                     "Humbug" which took thousands of Democrats away
                    from the party; (2) to the Democratic attitude on temperance. In the eyes of the
                    Democrats the temperance issue was brought out by the Fusion politicians solely
                    for the purpose of gaining the support of temperance Democrats, by thousands of
                    whom it was made the first issue.162 (3) to the Know
                    Nothings who were largely disgruntled Democrats.163
            
            The Fusionists attributed their success (1) to the desire of the people to teach
                    their representatives that the people's will on the questions before
                    the public was to be obeyed;164 (2) to the fact that the
                    people of Indiana were tired of the corruption of the Democratic party;165 (3) to the feeling of many Democrats that the State
                    Democratic convention was "packed" and that its platform did
                    not represent the will of the Democratic party;166 (4) to
                    the slavery and temperance planks of the State Democratic platform. In
                    commenting upon the election Editor M. C. Garber, of the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier, stated that the Know Nothings had but little to do
                    with the defeat of the Democrats since the Know Nothings were the weakest
                    element in the election.167
            
            In general the Democrats looked upon their defeat with the feeling that 
                        Democracy was defeated, not by a political association sustained by
                            definite principles, but by a mere combination of factions, leagued for
                            the first time with no particular object, each preserving its own crude
                            idea of right, and all submitting to the co-operation of each other,
                            with the hope that something might grow up upon which all could cling.
                            and around which each could rally and form a permanent party.168
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  161
                        Daily Journal, Jan. 4, 1855.
               
                  162
                        State Sentinel, Oct. 31, 1854.
               
                  163
                        State Sentinel, Oct. 14, 1854.
               
                  164
                        
                            Logansport
                        
                        Journal, Oct. 21, 1854.
               
                  165
                        Weekly State Journal, Oct. 21, 1854.
               
                  166
                        
                            Madison
                        
                        Dollar Weekly Courier, Nov. 7, 1854.
               
                  167
                        
                            Madison
                        
                        Dollar Weekly Courier, Nov. 7, 1854.
               
                  168
                        
                            Rockport
                        
                        Democrat, Oct. 17, 1855.
            
            
            Of the new party which had been formed Berry R. Sul-grove, editor of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, wrote: 
                        It is evident to everyone that there has silently arisen, and is now
                            forming all over the country, a great Republican party. It has thrown
                            aside the shackles and the prejudices, that, engendered year after year,
                            have so long held men trammelled by old party names merely. It arises
                            from considerations higher and more important than party ties. It comes
                            from the reason and sober judgment of the people.
                        Its advent is witnessed on the one hand by rejoicing. Those who look to
                            the purity and permanence of our institutions, hail it as the harbinger
                            of good. But on the other side its coming is seen with terror and
                            dismay. That class of men among us who live only by political
                            huckstering, who feed on official pay, who can see no means of personal
                            maintenance for themselves out of office, who have neither the industry
                            nor will to earn their daily bread by common means, who know that the
                            people who make this new party, the Republicans of the country, will
                            weigh them in the balance and will "find them
                            wanting", these fear and dread and curse this new organization.
                            No denunciation of it is too broad, no curse of it too deep, no epithet
                            too revolting for them to apply to it. Fusion, mongrel, renegade.
                            traitor, abolitionist, and others without number, are the terms they see
                            proper to use, when designating it. It and its men receive no courtesy
                            at their hands, and they stop not at the lowest depths of reviling. High
                            officers of the government, men for whom many of us voted, men whom we
                            placed in power and in office, now use that power and place to give
                            force to their efforts to throw obloquy upon us. In this free government
                            we may not be freemen, we are not allowed the right to think aud vote
                            with freedom and as we please, unless we vote money into their pockets,
                            and power and office into their hands. We must be what they call
                            Democrats or we must be covered with revilings.
                        All this under the name of Democracy, as they pretend. Day after day and
                            week after week these men, senators, governors, congressmen, mail
                            agents, postmasters, office holders of every class, peregrinate from
                            county to county, to mislead and deceive the people. ∗
                            ∗
                            ∗ They outrage right and justice and
                            morality and freedom, but claim immunity and exaltation, because they
                            belong to the party. The party, they say, must be sustained, even though
                            liberty perish.169
                  
                    
            
            One of the most noticeable facts about the election was the activity of the young
                    men in behalf of the People's party. It was estimated that nine-tenths
                    of all the native-born young men of 
                        Indianapolis
                     voted for the People's ticket. The Fusionists rejoiced at
                    this as it indicated strength and stability for the new party.170
            
            
               
                  169
                        Weekly State Journal, Sept. 16, 1854.
               
                  170
                        Weekly State Journal, Oct. 21, 1854.
            
            
            In discussing the composition of the new party Editor Gregg, of the New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Tribune gave the following estimate:171
            
            
               
                  Whigs
                  80,000
               
               
                  Democrats
                  10,000
               
               
                  Free Soilers
                  8,000
               
               
                  Fusion
                  98,000
               
            
            If this estimate be true it is evident that the Whigs formed the main portion of
                    the People's party.
            November 1, 1854, was set as the day upon which the people of 
                        Indianapolis
                     should celebrate the glorious victory over the "Old Line
                    Democracy" at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . A large good natured crowd assembled that day with Thomas Smith of 
                        Ripley
                     county, as chairman of the meeting. H. S. Lane, S. W. Parker, 0. P.
                    Morton, Mr. Galloway of 
                        Ohio
                    , Reuben A. Riley, and Godlove S. Orth were the speakers. These men
                    expressed the desire of perpetuating the People's party and also the
                    desire of all to forget the past political affiliations and further the
                    movement. Freedom, temperance, and pure elections should be the watchwords of
                    the new party.172 During the afternoon it was resolved that
                    the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                    , the Ordinance of 1787, and the resolutions of the 13th of July
                    were long enough and broad enough for the whole American people to stand
                        upon.173 This was a wise move since the members of the
                    People's party differed so much in their views that any new resolution
                    would have probably tended to divide rather than unite the members of the new
                    party.
            FIRST REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CAMPAIGN
            
            When the State legislature assembled in January, 1855, both Democrats and
                    Fusionists had hopes of electing one of their party to the 
                        United States
                     Senate as a successor to Senator John Pettit. Realizing that the
                    majority of 12 was too much to overcome, the Democrats put off the election
                    until 
                  
                     171
                            Weekly State Journal, Oct. 21, 1854.
                  
                     172
                            Weekhy State Journal, Nov. 4, 1854.
                  
                     173
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, Nov. 18, 1854.
               
                     February 22, 1855.1 The
                    Democratic Senate chose Isaac 
                        Blackford
                     for the 
                        United States
                     Senate. The House refused to choose 
                        Blackford
                     but invited the Senate into a joint convention for the purpose of
                    selecting a 
                        United States
                     senator. The Senate declined and the session closed without any man
                    being selected. A Democratic senate, which believed in popular sovereignty, had
                    refused to obey the will of the people.2
            
            Since the Supreme Court of Indiana had decided that the liquor law of 1853 was
                    unconstitutional it fell upon the State legislature of 1855 to draft a new law.
                    A bill was passed in the Senate by a vote of 29 to 18 and sent to the House
                    where it was passed by a vote of 55 to 43. In the Senate seven Democrats voted
                    for the bill.3 This act prohibited the manufacture and sale
                    of intoxicating liquors as a beverage and was very much like the 
                        Maine
                     Law.4
            
            The People's party again assembled July 13, 1855, for the purpose of
                    further organizing their party.5 By this time it had become
                    apparent that the slavery issue was the big question although temperance and
                    anti-catholicism were still prominent.6 Fully as many were
                    present as at the mass meeting of July 13, 1854. Not only was the attendance
                    large but the best of harmony was prevalent.7 Charles H.
                    Test, Morton, Lane, Colfax, and 
                        Henry
                     Wilson of 
                        Massachusetts
                     were the main speakers.8 A platform was adopted
                    reaffirming the first three planks of the platform of 1854, condemning the 
                        Kansas
                     policy of the national administration, asking for a fair trial of
                    the prohibitory liquor law, and demanding that the franchise be limited to
                    native or naturalized citizens of the 
                        United States
                    .9 In discussing these resolutions Editor M. C.
                    Garber said, "All that the Republican party asks now was contended for
                    by the Democratic party in 1849."
            The Know Nothings held their State council July 11-12, 1855, at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , probably expecting to control the 
                  
                     1
                            Democratic Pharos, Jan. 24, 1854.
                  
                     2 Rushville Republican, March
                            14, 1855.
                  
                     3
                            State Sentinel, Feb. 10, 1855.
                  
                     4
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Feb. 9, 1855.
                  
                     5
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, June 30, 1855.
                  
                     6 Russel M. Seeds, History of the
                                Republican Party in Indiana, 24.
                  
                     7 Rushville Republican, July 18,
                            1855.
                  
                     8
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, July 21, 1855.
                  
                     9 Logtinsport Journal, July 21,
                            1855.
               
                     Fusion meeting of July 13. The Council
                    demanded the restoration of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise, strongly endorsed the prohibitory liquor law of
                    Indiana, and declared that the State constitution should be so amended as to
                    permit only citizens of the 
                        United States
                     to vote.10 A comparison of the resolutions of
                    both conventions shows that there was but little difference between the views of
                    the two parties. In fact the Republicans openly said that there was no reason
                    why the Know Nothings should not become Republicans and that they longed to see
                    the day when Republicans and Know Nothings stood on a truly American
                        platform.11
            
            A test of the liquor law was made by Beebe, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     liquor seller. The case was carried to the Supreme Court of Indiana
                    where it was decided that the law was constitutional in prohibiting the sale but
                    not the manufacture of liquor.12 As a result of this
                    decision a convention was called to meet February 22, 1856, at 
                        Indianapolis
                     to consider what should be done to further the cause of temperance
                    in Indiana.13 John W. Dawson of 
                        Allen
                     county, John D. Defrees and A. L. Robinson were prominent members
                    of the convention which resolved that the friends of temperance should be
                    requested not to support any candidate who was against a prohibitory law and
                    recommending that the friends of temperance organize in every portion of the
                        State.14 Democrats did not have a very kindly feeling
                    toward this convention owing to the tendency of the members of the Democratic
                    party to look upon the temperance movement as a mere "tender to the
                    Fusion movement". They thought that the Know Nothings would rule this
                    convention as they had done in the People's convention of 1854.15
            
            Feeling that the combination of "ungodly, unholy, and contemptible
                    "isms" might have been defeated in 1854 if the Democrats had
                    held their convention earlier, the "Old Liners" met at 
                        Indianapolis
                     January 8, 1856, in a State convention for the purpose of making a
                    platform, nominating a State 
                  
                     10
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, July 14, 1855.
                  
                     11
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, July 11, 1855.
                  
                     12
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, January, 1856.
                  
                     13
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Jan. 24, 1856.
                  
                     14
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Feb. 23, 1856.
                  
                     15
                            State Sentinel, Feb. 9, 1856.
               
                     ticket, and organizing for the coming
                        campaign.16 The convention was well attended and was as
                    harmonious as most political conventions are.17 A. P.
                    Willard of New 
                        Albany
                     was the choice for governor with John C. Walker of Laporte county
                    for lieutenant-governor. The resolutions committee reported a platform approving
                    the principle of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     act, condemning the Know Nothings, opposing the principle of the
                    last prohibitory law of Indiana, approving the continuance of the present
                    naturalization laws, favoring Jesse D. Bright for President, and upholding the 
                        Monroe
                     Doctrine.18 This platform made the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     act and a prohibitory law the main issues of the coming contest.
            That the Democrats proposed to win was seen in the action of the State Central
                    Committee in asking Mr. Walker to resign because of ineligibility, there being
                    some question as to his age qualifications.19 The real
                    reason for the change was the desire of the State Central Committee to
                    strengthen the ticket by putting on it an Old Line Whig, Abram A. 
                        Hammond
                     of 
                        Vigo
                     county.20
            
            It was unfortunate for the Democrats that the attitude of the party toward the
                    slavery question had not been the same at all times. The national Democratic
                    convention of May, 1848, by a vote of 216 to 36, had refused to pass a
                    resolution making "non-intervention by Congress" the true
                    doctrine of the party.21 The Indiana delegation in the
                    convention voted as a unit against the resolution.22 We have
                    already noted the State Democratic resolutions of January, 1849, as stating that
                    Congress had the right to and ought to prevent the spread of slavery to the
                    territories. In justice to the Democrats it should be said that the resolutions
                    of 1849 did not express the position of the mass of the party but these
                    resolutions were the work of the party leaders who did so as a matter of
                        "expediency".23
            
            The Methodist church of Indiana was hostile to the Democratic 
                  
                     16
                            
                                Rockport
                            
                            Democrat, Nov. 3, 1855.
                  
                     17
                            State Sentinel, Jan. 16, 1856.
                  
                     18
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Jan. 9, 1856.
                  
                     19
                            State Sentinel, April 19, 1856.
                  
                     20
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, April 26, 1856.
                  
                     21
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Dollar Weekly Courier, July 16, 1856.
                  
                     22
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, May 29, 1856.
                  
                     23
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Democratic Pharos, July 2, 1856.
               
                     party because of its stand on the slavery
                    question. At the Northern Indiana Conference in September, 1853, a stand was
                    made against slavery by resolving that it was the duty of the Church to seek by
                    all peaceable as well as reasonable means the removal of slavery from the entire
                        country.24 At the 
                        Greensburg
                     Quarterly Conference in August, 1854, it was resolved not to
                    support any man for Congress who would not pledge himself to restore the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise line and that the extension of slavery over free
                    territory would be a disgrace to our government.25 At the
                    General Conference of May, 1856, a decided stand was taken against slavery by
                    resolving that slave-holders must emancipate their slaves or lose membership in
                    the Methodist church.26
            
            Another element of opposition to the extension of slavery was the German
                    population of the State. Most of those who had come before 1848 were Democrats
                    while those who had come over because of the Revolution of 1848 believed in
                        freedom.27 In 1856 there were probably 60,000 Germans
                        here.28 They were located in 
                  Adams, Allen,
                            Decatur, Dubois, Elkhart, Floyd, Knox
               , Laporte, 
                  Marion, Posey, Tippecanoe
               , Vander-burg,
                            
                  Vigo, Warrick
               , and 
                        Wayne
                     counties. Those who had come because of the Revolution of 1848 had
                    a sort of a sentimental fervor for liberty. Since they and their fathers had
                    suffered under the political tyranny of their own land they had the feeling that
                    the territories of this Union ought to be dedicated to freedom in order that
                    they might become a refuge for their brethren yet in 
                        Germany
                    .29 Hence they were hostile to the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     act because it seemed to be a pro-slavery measure and also, because
                    of the Clayton amendment, aliens could not vote or hold office in these
                        territories.30 It was estimated that twenty thousand
                    political pamphlets in German were scattered over Indiana during the first four
                    months of 1856.31 The Democrats appealed to them not to
                    support the People's ticket because it was being supported by 
                  
                     24
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Dollar Weekly Courier, Oct. 8, 1853.
                  
                     25
                            Weekly State Journal. Aug.. 26 1854.
                  
                     26
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, May 29. 1856.
                  
                     27
                            State Sentinel, April 20, I860.
                  
                     28 Census of 1860, page 130, gives 66,705 in 1860.
                  
                     29 Chapman's Chanticleer, March 9, 1854.
                  
                     30
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Morning Journal, March 10, 1854.
                  
                     31
                            State Sentinel, April 30, 1856.
               
                     the Know Nothings who were the enemies of
                        foreigners.32 The Fusionists met the argument of the
                    Democrats by showing the Germans that slavery was the enemy of free labor and
                    that the only way the German could protect himself against slavery was by voting
                    against its extension.33 So important was the vote of the
                    Germans that the 
                        Detroit
                    
                    Free Press said that it was the German vote which won for the
                    Republican party.34
            
            After the passage of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     act people began to move into 
                        Kansas
                    . By 1860 this territory had a population of 107,204, most of whom
                    had come from the Old Northwest.35 At this time there were
                    living in 
                        Kansas
                     9,945 people who were born in Indiana.36 So
                    prominent were Indiana men in Kansan affairs that 34 out of 80 members of the
                    State legislature were from the Hoosier State.37
            
            In spite of the efforts of the northern men the territorial legislature had
                    passed some severe pro-slavery laws. Assisting runaway slaves was made
                    punishable by death and all were forbidden to say, write, print, or introduce
                    any printed book denying the right to hold slaves in 
                        Kansas
                    . Violation of this law was punishable by two years of hard labor in
                        prison.38 The election law of August 16, 1855, permitted
                    every white male citizen of the 
                        United States
                     over twenty-one years of age to vote if he presented a receipt
                    showing that he had paid one dollar poll tax.39 This act
                    seems to have been passed for the special purpose of permitting men from the
                    border States to vote in Kansan elections.
            After the opening of the territory Missourians and Arkan-sans moved over into it.
                    They hoped that 
                        Kansas
                     would adopt the institutions of 
                        Missouri
                     and proposed to help her to do so.40 Their
                    purpose was well shown in the 
                  Westport, Missouri
               , resolutions which declared that they wanted to
                    take their property into 
                        Kansas
                     peaceably but that, having heard 
                  
                     32
                            State Sentinel, July 26, 1856.
                  
                     33
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Morning Journal, July 3, 1856.
                  
                     34
                            State Sentinel, April 20, 1860.
                  
                     35 W. O. Lynch, Indiana Magazine of
                                History, XI, number 1.
                  
                     36 Census of 1860, page 166.
                  
                     37 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Weekly Ledger, May 21, 1856.
                  
                     38
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Daily Express, Sept. 4, 1856.
                  
                     39
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Aug. 17, 1855.
                  
                     40
                            Weekly State Journal, Aug. 17, 1854.
               
                     that organized bands were being sent into 
                        Kansas
                    , they wished to notify them that they would be met with the
                    "last argument".41 This clearly indicated
                    that the citizens of 
                        Missouri
                     intended to secure 
                        Kansas
                     as a slave State. Not only did the people of 
                        Missouri
                     pass resolutions such as these but they kept up a continued
                    agitation for the avowed purpose of preventing anyone going into 
                        Kansas
                     who was unfriendly to slavery.42
            
            Indiana newspapers printed much telegraph news from 
                        Kansas
                     and also published many letters from former Indian-ians urging
                    their friends to move to 
                        Kansas
                    . These writers usually stated that unless northerners came to the
                    rescue 
                        Kansas
                     would become a slave territory.43 Not only did
                    they write back to Indiana for help but James H. Lane, who had voted for the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     act and had gone to 
                        Kansas
                     to live, came back to Indiana to reveal the true condition of
                    affairs there.44 What 
                        Kansas
                     wanted was well shown by the following prayer of Rev. E. B. Foster,
                    of 
                  Lawrence, Kansas
               , when he prayed:
                        
                        "O, Lord: we pray thee that the freemen of the North. East, and
                            West. may squat in 
                                Kansas
                            , and drive out the border ruffians. This is one thing we
                            ask for Christ's sake. Amen !"45
                  
                    
            
            Hearing that the border ruffians were contemplating an invasion of 
                        Kansas
                     and feeling that they were unable to meet it, James H. Lane,
                    chairman of the executive committee of 
                        Kansas
                     territory, and Governor-elect Robinson wrote a letter to Gov.
                    Joseph A. Wright of Indiana asking him to take some steps to prevent the
                    threatened invasion. Governor Wright answered that it was the policy of Indiana
                    to let the people of the territory settle these questions as best they could.
                    This answer did not please the anti-slavery men of the State who felt that
                    something ought to be done to protect the anti-slavery men of 
                        Kansas
                     against the slavery men of 
                        Missouri
                     who were there only to control the elections.46
            
            
               
                  41
                        Weekly State Journal, June 24, 1854.
               
                  42
                        Weekly State Journal, Aug. 28, 1856.
               
                  43
                        Weekly State Journal, Jan. 17, 1856.
               
                  44
                        
                            Logansport
                        
                        Journal, May 31, 1856.
               
                  45
                        
                            Rockport
                        
                        Weekly Democrat, July 26, 1856.
               
                  46
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal. Feb. 16, 1856.
            
            
            The attitude of the President toward 
                        Kansas
                     was clearly expressed in his message of January 24, 1856, in which
                    he declared the acts of the territorial legislature legal and urged the enacting
                    of a law that would enable 
                        Kansas
                     to form a State constitution when it had sufficient population.47 This message indicated that the administration was going
                    to help make 
                        Kansas
                     a slave State.
            As a result of the appeals from 
                        Kansas
                     for assistance and the attitude of the national administration
                    toward 
                        Kansas
                     many meetings were held in Indiana at which money was raised to
                    send to 
                        Kansas
                    .48 At a meeting on January 5, 1856, at 
                        Indianapolis
                     a memorial to Congress was drawn urging that such legislation be
                    enacted as would enable 
                        Kansas
                     to secure the government to the bona fide residents or that
                    Congress take charge of the territory.40 At a second meeting
                    held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in February, 1856, a committee of three was appointed to receive
                    money which was to be sent to 
                        Kansas
                     or used in buying Sharpe's rifles. Copies of these
                    resolutions were sent to Indiana's congressmen and also to President
                        Pierce.50
            
            The Kansan situation seemed serious to the "Free Democrats"
                    whose executive committee of the State association of the free democracy issued
                    a call for all anti-slavery persons to meet in 
                        Indianapolis
                     February 21, 1856, for the purpose of uniting all opponents of the
                    slavery propagandism of the "Old Liners" and present national
                    administration. It was thought that the friends of freedom should council before
                    the proposed People's convention in May.51 A. L.
                    Robinson, of 
                        Evansville
                    , was made chairman of the meeting. It was decided to meet in the
                    People's convention of May 1, 1856, not as Free Democrats but as a part
                    of the people, desiring the reform of great abuses and the return to the
                    policies of the Fathers of the Republic.52 Acting upon 
                        Henry
                     Ward Beecher's famous sentence,
                    "Sharpe's rifles are better than Bibles",53 Judge J. W. Wright of 
                        Logansport
                     introduced a 
                  
                     47 Richardson, Messages and Papers of
                                the Presidents, 353.
                  
                     48
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Feb. 21, 1856.
                  
                     49
                            Weekly State Journal, Jan. 10, 1856.
                  
                     50
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Feb. 25, 1856.
                  
                     51
                            Weekly State Journal, Jan. 31, 1856.
                  
                     52
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Feb. 22, 1856.
                  
                     53
                            State Sentinel, June 11, 1856.
               
                     resolution for a committee of seven men
                    "to raise money, purchase arms, and equip men to go immediately to 
                        Kansas
                    ."54 These seven men were Dr. Ritchey
                    of 
                        Johnson
                     county, Ovid S. W. Butler of 
                        Marion
                     county, Judge Wright, A. C. Stevenson of 
                        Putnam
                     county, Calvin Fletcher of 
                        Marion
                     county, 
                        Henry
                     S. Lane of 
                        Montgomery
                     county, and James H. Lane of 
                        Ripley
                     county. It was further resolved that the people of the different
                    counties raise money to be placed at the disposal of this committee of seven.55
            
            In the State Journal was published a letter from Judge J. W.
                    Wright from which the following extracts are taken: 
                        If a contest with arms conies off in 
                                Kansas
                             hundreds of Hoosiers will be there, and money can be
                            furnished to any amount, and after it is over every aider and ahettor to
                            the ruffians in Indiana, will be shipped South and delivered over to
                            their masters.
                        Persons wishing to emigrate to 
                                Kansas
                             as actual settlers and desirous of procuring
                            Sharpe's rflies can he supplied in a few days by addressing me
                            at 
                                Logansport
                            . or at the Kates House in 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        The decree has gone forth that 
                                Kansas
                             has to he free.56
                  
                    
            
            With the people of the State intensely interested in the situation in 
                        Kansas
                     a more systematic campaign was planned by the leaders of the new
                    party. As early as December 18, 1855, the Fusion editors met at 
                        Indianapolis
                     with 
                        Milton
                     Gregg of the New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Tribune, a Know Nothing, as president. Here it was decided to
                    endorse the People's platform of 1854 as containing all that was
                    necessary on the issues before the people of the State. Significant among its
                    recommendations were those advocating a mass meeting of the people in May and
                    urging that each county organize itself thoroughly for the coming campaign.57 In carrying out this last recommendation the Fusion
                    newspapers began to urge the organization of the counties by the selection of
                    county, township, and district committees which were to keep in touch with the
                    State Central Committee.58 These committees were to send out
                    the best speakers obtainable and were urged to see that genuinely Republican
                    delegates were chosen for 
                  
                     54 L.ogansport Democratic
                            Pharos, March 19, 1856.
                  
                     55
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Feb. 22, 1856.
                  
                     56
                            Weekly State Journal, Feb. 28, 1856.
                  
                     57
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, December 19. 1855.
                  
                     58
                            Weekly State Journal, February 21, 1856.
               
                     the State convention and that they came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     for the convention.59 Republican clubs and
                    people's clubs were formed representing the principle of no
                    interference with slavery by Congress where it already exists and no slavery in
                    the territories.60
            
            Following the suggestions of the editors, the State Central Committee issued a
                    call for a mass convention of the People's party of the State of
                    Indiana at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on the first day of May, 1856. The repeal of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise, the unconstitutional efforts of the government to
                    extend slavery into territory once made free by that compromise, the evident
                    intention of the government to nationalize slavery, threats of disunion, and the
                    condition of the State due to intemperance and heavy taxation required the
                    careful consideration of the people in a mass convention.61
                    Of this call the Sentinel said that it was "the most
                    impudent and unblushing tissue of distorted facts that has ever been presented
                    to the people of the State; abounding with all manner of
                        misrepresentation".62 It was further asserted
                    that this call was in harmony with the Fusion program which approved of the
                    State temperance convention of February 22, 1856, favored the reorganization of
                    the Know Nothing Councils, and provided for a People's mass meeting.63
            
            Owing to the early date of the State convention not many county meetings were
                    held before May 1, 1856. On March 6, the 
                        Madison
                     county Republicans resolved to organize by county and townships and
                    to meet April 19 to draft a plat-form.64 At this meeting it
                    was resolved that slavery should not be interfered with where it already existed
                    but that the Republicans were opposed to its further extension.65
                On March 8 the 
                        Jefferson
                     county Republicans resolved to resist by all constitutional means
                    the extension of slavery into the territories.66 On April 26
                    the Republicans of 
                        Marion
                     county resolved that they would resist the introduction of slavery
                        
                  
                     59
                            Weekly State Journal, April 24, 1856.
                  
                     60
                            Weekly State Journal, April 3, 1856.
                  
                     61
                            Weekly State Journal, Jan. 31, 1856.
                  
                     62
                            State Sentinel, Jan. 26, 1856.
                  
                     63
                            State Sentinel, Jan. 28, 1856.
                  
                     64
                            Weekly State Journal, March 20, 1856.
                  
                     65
                            Weekly State Journal, May 1, 1856.
                  
                     66
                            Weekly State Journal, March 13, 1856.
               
                     into the territories in accordance with the
                    State Democratic doctrine of 1849 and that 
                        Kansas
                     should be admitted immediately as a free State.67
            
            Much interest was taken in the choice of a man to head the State ticket. O. P.
                    Morton, H. S. Lane, S. W. Parker, Daniel Mace, Schuyler Colfax, D. D. Pratt of 
                        Cass
                     county, O. H. Smith of 
                        Marion
                     county, and Judge Otto of 
                        Floyd
                     county were mentioned.168 Morton refused to
                    become a candidate thinking that some other man could better serve the interests
                    of the people in that office.69
            
            On the first day of May, 1856, a crowd, estimated at from 30,000 to 55,000
                    people, assembled from all parts of the State.70 H. S. Lane
                    was selected as president.71 Lane expressed his views by
                    saying that the first great issue to be settled was that of the extension of
                    slavery, that the admission of 
                        Kansas
                     had to be settled, that President Pierce was ready to put down free
                    men in 
                        Kansas
                     who were fighting for free speech, free press, and free
                    institutions. Lane showed that opposition to the extension of slavery did not
                    mean Abolition. He eulogized the temperance law of 1854 and urged that no
                    foreigner be permitted to vote until naturalized. Of this speech the Sentinel of May 2, 1856, remarked that Lane said the object of
                    the convention was to unite all the factions of the Fusionists into a party
                    whose leading principle was opposition to the further extension of slavery.
            John A. Matson of 
                        Putnam
                     county nominated Oliver P. Morton for Governor. The sentiment of
                    the convention was for Morton as was shown by the fact that he was nominated by
                    acclamation. In the afternoon Morton addressed the convention advocating the
                    immediate admission of 
                        Kansas
                    
                    
                  
                     67
                            Weekly State Journal, May 1, 1856.
                  
                     68
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, Feb. 2, 1856; Weekly State
                                Journal, Feb. 21, 1856.
                  
                     69
                            Weekly State Journal, Jan. 31, 1856.
                  
                     70
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, Jully 19, 1856.
                  
                     71
                            Weekly State Journal, May 8, 1856. The vice-presidents
                            were: First district, J. T. Embree. 
                                Gibson
                             county ; Second district, 
                                Milton
                             Gregg, 
                                Floyd
                             county; Third district, J. V. Buskirk, 
                                Monroe
                             county; Fourth districct, George P. Buell, 
                                Dearborn
                             county; Fifth district, Miles Murphy, 
                                Henry
                             county; Sixth district, J. Ritchey, 
                                Johnson
                             county; Seventh district, Levi Sidwell, 
                                Parke
                             county; Eighth district, H. L. Ellsworth, 
                                Tippecanoe
                             county; Ninth district, J. W. Wright, 
                                Cass
                             county; Tenth district, T. R. Dickenson, Dekalb county;
                            Eleventh district, Isaac Vandevanter, 
                                Grant
                             county. The Secretaries were: John R. Cravens, 
                                Jefferson
                             county; B. R. Sulgrove, 
                                Marion
                             county; W. M. French, 
                                Clark
                             county ; William Millikan, Laporte county.
               
                     as a free State and denying the right of
                    any foreigner to vote before naturalization. His position on the slavery
                    question was opposition to the further extension but no interference with it
                    where it was already established.
            There was some confusion when Mr. R. M. Hudson of 
                        Vigo
                     county objected to the appointment of delegates to the national
                    Republican convention of June 17, 1856. He claimed that delegates should not be
                    appointed since this was not a Republican convention. Hudson, who was a Know
                    Nothing, felt that the Fusionists did not dare to act against the wishes of the
                    Know Nothings since they were strong in southwestern Indiana.72 David Kilgore, who was an older Know Nothing than Hudson, said that
                    they had better send delegates to the 
                        Philadelphia
                     convention on June 17, 1856, in order that candidates might be
                    chosen for whom all could vote. In his view Americanism could wait while the 
                        Kansas
                     question could not.71 A compromise was arranged
                    whereby six delegates from the State at large and three from each congressional
                    district were selected. H. S. Lane, John D. Defrees, William M. Dunn, Judge
                    Wright, Godlove S. Orth, and Charles H. Test were chosen to go to 
                        Philadelphia
                     as representatives to the "People's"
                    national convention of June 17, 1856.74
            
            After the selection of these delegates James H. Lane was called for and responded
                    by a vivid description of the real conditions as they were in 
                        Kansas
                    . He maintained that the interference of the Missourians in Kansan
                    affairs was the root of the trouble there. He closed his speech with a recital
                    of the brutal treatment of the free State men by the border ruffians.
            
               
                  72
                        
                            Logansport
                        
                        Democratic Pharos, May 14, 1856.
               
                  73 New 
                            Albany
                        
                        Daily Ledger, May 6, 1856.
               
                  74 Seeds, History of the Republican Party
                            in Indiana, 25. The delegates from the congressional districts
                        were: First district, Willard Carpenter, Vanderburg; Andrew Lewis, 
                            Warrick
                        ; William M. Morrison, 
                            Warrick
                        . Second district, (To be decided in Convention). Third
                        district, J. J. Cummings, 
                            Jackson
                        ; William Sharp, 
                            Jennings
                        ; M. C. Garber, 
                            Jefferson
                        . Fourth district, George P. Buell, 
                            Dearborn
                        ; J. H. Farquahar, 
                            Franklin
                        ; Thomas Smith, 
                            Ripley
                        . Fifth district, Jacob B. Julian, 
                            Wayne
                        ; M. L. Bundy, 
                            Henry
                        ; B. F. Claypool, 
                            Fayette
                        . Sixth district, J. S. Harvey, 
                            Marion
                        ; James Ritchey, 
                            Johnson
                        ; Joseph S. Miller, 
                            Hendricks
                        . Seventh district, George K. Steele, 
                            Parke
                        ; Daniel Sigler, 
                            Putnam
                        ; B. A. Allison, 
                            Owen
                        . Eighth district, James Nelson, 
                            Montgomery
                        ; R. C. Gregory, 
                            Tippecanoe
                        ; William Bowers, 
                            Boone
                        . Ninth district, D. G. Rose, 
                            Miami
                        ; D. R. Bearrs, 
                            Miami
                        ; T. H. Binghurst, 
                            Cass
                        . Tenth district, J. C. Power, 
                            Kosciusko
                        ; John 
                     Mitchell,
                                Noble
                  ; Samuel Hanna, 
                            Allen
                        . Eleventh district, J. D. Connor, 
                            Wabash
                        ; C. D. Murray, 
                            Howard
                        ; Isaac Vandevanter, 
                            Grant
                        .
            
            
            At the conclusion of Lane's speech the Committee on Resolutions brought
                    in the following report: 
                        The people of Indiana consisting of all who are opposed to the policy of
                            the present federal administration, assembled in convention at the
                            capital of the State, now submit to the people the following platform of
                            principles:
                        
                     Resolved, That we are uncompromisingly opposed to the
                            extension of slavery; and that we utterly repudiate the platform of
                            principles adopted by the self-styled Democratic convention of this
                            State endorsing and approving the 
                                Kansas
                            -
                                Nebraska
                             iniquity.
                        
                     Resolved, That we will resist by all proper means the
                            admission of any slave state into this Union formed out of the
                            territories secured to freedom by the 
                                Missouri
                             Compromise, or otherwise.
                        
                     Resolved, That we are in favor of the immediate
                            admission of 
                                Kansas
                             as a free State.
                        
                     Resolved, That we are in favor of the naturalization
                            laws of Congress with the five years' probation, and that the
                            right of suffrage should accompany and not precede naturalization.
                        
                     Resolved, That we believe the General Assembly of the
                            State have the power to prohibit the sale of intoxicating liquors as a
                            beverage, and that we are in favor of a constitutional law which will
                            effectually suppress the evils of intemperance.
                    
            
            In considering the platform it will be noted that the People's party was
                    an opposition party and that it opposed the extension of slavery. It went a
                    little further than the platform of 1854, which declared against the admission
                    of any more slave States out of territory made free by the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise by adding "or otherwise".75 The plank on "Naturalization" was made
                    to satisfy both the Germans and the Know Nothings. The Germans had declared that
                    they would not support the Republicans unless the party went on record as being
                    opposed to any change in the naturalization laws.76 The Know
                    Nothing element was opposed to the provision in the State constitution giving
                    the foreigner the right to vote after one year's residence in the 
                        United States
                    , six months in Indiana, and the making of his declaration of
                    intention. The plank on intemperance was similar to that of 1854. In commenting
                    upon this plank the 
                        Rockport
                    
                    Weekly Democrat of May 31, 1856, said: 
                  
                     75 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Weekly Tribune, May 9, 1856.
                  
                     76
                            Weekly Stale Journal, May 8, 1856.
               
                    
                    
                        "We know of no set of men outside of the Know Nothing, nigger
                            worshipping editors of the Republican party and their gang of rot gut
                            suckers. who need the protecting arm of a prohibitory law. to save them
                            from drunkards' graves."
                    
            
            Later it designated the People's party as the "Woolly-headed
                    Abolition, proscriptive Know Nothing, prohibitory 
                        Maine
                    -Law party".77
            
            Near the close of the convention the following ticket was nominated: 
                        Governor, O. P. Morton. 
                                Wayne
                             county; Lieutenant Governor, Conrad Baker. Vanderburg
                            county; Secretary of State. John W. Dawson (Know Nothiug), 
                                Allen
                             county; Treasurer of State. William R. Nofsinger, 
                                Parke
                             county; Auditor of State. K. W. II. Ellis, 
                                Marion
                             county; Superintendent of Public Instruction. John L.
                                Smith,78
                            
                                Boone
                             county; Attorney General. James H. Cravens, 
                                Ripley
                             county; Reporter of Supreme Court, John A. Stein. 
                                Tippecanoe
                             county; Clerk of Supreme Court. John A. Heal, 
                                Miami
                             county.
                    
            
            The opponents of the People's party criticized the ticket by saying that
                    Morton was a Know Nothing. Morton denied the charge. Editor Gregg of the New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Tribune said that Morton was a member of the order in 1854 and
                    emphasizes his statement by asserting that he was in a position to know.79 It was further asserted that the Fusion ticket was made
                    up of men who suited the temperance element.80
            
            It will be noted that the new party again went into the campaign as the
                    People's party. Lane, Morton and other leaders of the party were in
                    favor of assuming the name Republican but the Know Nothings, many Anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats, and some of the "Old Line Whigs" were
                    not yet ready to take on that name.81 This led George W.
                    Julian to say that in his own State the name Republican was repudiated. He
                    characterized the People's party as a "combination of
                    weaknesses instead of a union of forces".82 During
                    the campaign Julian came out in opposition to the People's party, He
                    wrote: 
                  
                     77
                            
                                Rockport
                            
                            Weekly Democrat, July 26, 1856.
                  
                     78 Smith declined and Charles L. Barnes of New 
                                Albany
                             was chosen.
                  
                     79 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Tribune, May 27, 1856. Gregg was a Know Nothing.
                  
                     80
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Democratic Pharos, Sept. 3, 1856.
                  
                     81 Seeds, History of the Republican
                                Party in Indiana, 24.
                  
                     82 Julian, Political
                            Recollections, 155.
               
                    
                    
                        The Know Nothings of this State, by assuming the mime of
                            People's party, have had things considerably their own in
                            Indiana for sometime past.
                        The proceedings of the convention, generally, must have been disgusting
                            to any looker-on having the anti-slavery cause at heart.
                        With one exception I cannot find of the entire batch of candidates.
                            electors, and delegates, a single man who can be said to be an
                            anti-slavery man.
                        What is the present duty of men who can support neither of the two
                            pro-slavery tickets in the field? I answer let them do everything in
                            their power, by honorable means, to overwhelm the ticket of the
                            People's party with an inglorious defeat.83
                  
                    
            
            From these quotations it will be noted that the platform did not suit the
                    radicals like Julian.
            Not only was the State interested in State politics but there was much interest
                    in national politics due to the fact that the questions before the people were
                    national rather than local. While many of the States had State organizations
                    which were opposed to the administration's policy there was no national
                    organization of these State parties. To effect such an organization a call was
                    issued in the name of the Republican State chairman of nine States, including
                    Indiana, for an informal convention at Pittsburg, February 22, 1856. This
                    convention was to draft plans for the organization of a permanent Republican
                    party and provide for a convention which should nominate candidates for
                    president and vice-president.84 George W. Julian, chairman
                    of the Committee on Organization, reported a plan of organization, providing for
                    a national executive committee of one from each State, a national convention to
                    meet June 17, 1856, and recommended the appointment of State and county
                    committees and the formation of clubs in every town and township throughout the
                        land.85 William Grose was designated as the member from
                    Indiana of the National Executive Committee.
            This National Executive Committee met in 
                        Washington
                     on March 27, 1856, and after the committee had spent two days in
                    wording it so as not to offend anyone a call was issued asking all who opposed
                        
                        the repeal of the 
                                Missouri
                             Compromise, the policy of the administration, the extension
                            of slavery into the territories, the admission of 
                                Kansas
                             as a free 
                        
                           83
                                    
                                        Terre Haute
                                    
                                    Daily Express, June 3, 1856.
                        
                           84 Frances Curtis, The
                                        Republican Party, I, 250.
                        
                           85
                                    Weekly State Journal, Feb. 22, 1856.
                     
                             State, and the restoration of the
                            action of the federal government to the principles of 
                                Washington
                             and 
                                Jefferson
                            
                  
                    
            
            to send three delegates from each congressional district and six at large to the
                    national convention at 
                        Philadelphia
                     on June 17, 1856.86
            
            Indiana sent a full delegation to this convention of which H. S. Lane was chosen
                    president. His speech of acceptance amazed the easterners, who did not know that
                    Indiana possessed a man of such oratorical ability. A platform was adopted
                    denying the authority of Congress or any territorial legislature to legalize
                    slavery in any territory, declaring that it was the duty of Congress to prohibit
                    in the territories those twin relics of barbarism, polygamy and slavery; and
                    declaring that 
                        Kansas
                     should be immediately admitted.87 It is worthy
                    of note that nothing was said about the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise. J. C. Fremont of 
                        California
                     and William L. 
                        Dayton
                     of 
                        New Jersey
                     were nominated for president and vice-president.88
            
            Of this platform George W. Julian said: 
                        I think I can stand on it, and without doing much violence to its
                            language, preach the whole anti-slavery gospel. The restoration of the .
                                Missouri
                             Compromise line is finally gathered among the defunct
                            political hum-hugs of the day.89
                  
                    
            
            W. L. Garrison said: 
                        As between the three rival parties, the sympathy of every genuine friend
                            of freedom must be with the Republican party, in spite of its lamentable
                                shortcomings.90
                  
                    
            
            Such utterances as these gave the Democrats the chance to designate the
                    Republican party as an Abolitionist and disunionist party.
            John D. Defrees, chairman of the State Central Committee, issued a call for all
                    people regardless of all past political differences who were opposed to the
                    extension of 
                  
                     86
                            Weekly State Journal, April 10, 1856.
                  
                     87
                            Weekly State Journal, June 26, 1856.
                  
                     88 Indiana voted 21 for McLean to IS for Fremont
                            on first ballot but solidly for Fremont on second ballot.
                  
                     89 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Weekly Tribune, July 8, 1856.
                  
                     90 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Weekly Tribune, Sept. 23, 1856.
               
                     slavery to territory made free by a sacred
                    compromise, to meet July 15, 1856, at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , to ratify the nominations to be made at 
                        Philadelphia
                    , on the 17th of June.01 Evidently Defrees
                    thought that the restoration of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise line was to be the great issue in the contest. Much
                    enthusiasm was displayed at this meeting, which was addressed by H. S. Lane, Mr.
                    Elliot, of 
                        Kansas
                    ; Mr. Lud-vigh, of 
                        Baltimore
                    ; Conrad Baker, P. A. Hackleman, S. S. Harding, and Mr. Marsh, of 
                        Ohio
                    .92 Little was done here besides ratifying the
                    nominations of Fremont and 
                        Dayton
                    .
            By the latter part of 1855 it was seen that the Know Nothings were losing their
                    power. The fact that their organization was a secret one and the odium attached
                    by the public to the name Know Nothing was putting their lodges out of
                        existence.93 Although decreasing rapidly they were a
                    factor in the campaign, it being estimated that there were 50,000 Know Nothings
                    in Indiana at the opening of the campaign.94 If the Know
                    Nothings decided to run a State ticket, the defeat of the Republican party was
                    certain. If they fused with the Republicans the Know Nothing party as an
                    organization would disappear. This was the problem confronting the leaders of
                    these two parties.
            The slavery question was dividing the Know Nothings into two sections, an
                    anti-slavery section and a pro-slavery section, which struggled for the control
                    of the Know Nothing National Council at 
                        Philadelphia
                    , on June 5, 1855. For more than a week the conflict over slavery
                    continued, it being resolved that congress had no power to prohibit slavery in
                    the territories or abolish it in the 
                        District of Columbia
                     and that the existing laws should be maintained. This platform
                    definitely put the party on record as favoring the South on this question. In
                    company with the northern division of the party, Indiana's delegates,
                    Schuyler Colfax, Will Cumback, Godlove S. Orth, J. L. Harvey, F. D. 
                        Allen
                    , J. R. M. Bryant, and Thomas C. Slaughter withdrew from the
                        convention.95 Those who supported the
                    "bolters" would 
                  
                     91
                            Weekly State Journal, June 12, 1856.
                  
                     92
                            Wcekly State Journal, July 17, 1856.
                  
                     93
                            
                                Rockport
                            
                            Democrat, Dec. 8, 1855.
                  
                     94 Carl Fremont Brand, History of the
                                Know Nothing Party in Indiana, 115.
                  
                     95
                            State Sentinel, June 21, 1856.
               
                     probably drift into the Republican party
                    because of their opposition to the extension of slavery.
            The same kind of a struggle occurred in the Know Nothing National Council at 
                        Philadelphia
                     on February 18, 1856. Here a platform was made which approved the
                    enforcement of existing laws until repealed or declared null and void.96 This seemed to be an acquiescence in the repeal of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise. On the 22nd of February the Council resolved itself
                    into a nominating convention. A resolution was offered that 
                        this Convention has no authority to prescribe a phitform of principles,
                            and we will nominate no candidates for president and vice-president who
                            are not in favor of interdicting the introduction of slavery north of
                            36° 30′.
                    
            
            This motion was tabled: 141 yeas to 59 nays. As the balloting was about to
                    commence delegates from seven States seceded. Millard Fillmore, of 
                        New York
                    , and Andrew 
                        Jackson
                     Donaldson, of 
                        Tennessee
                    , were nominated by the remaining delegates.97
                    Indiana's delegates, Sheets, Phelps, and Sol Meredith did not secede.
                    These seceding States went into a North American convention the latter part of
                    June and nominated J. C. Fremont and W. F. 
                        Johnson
                    , of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .98
                    
                        Johnson
                     declined in favor of 
                        Dayton
                    , making the Republican and North American tickets the same.99
            
            Would the Americans take part in the People's convention of May 1, 1856? 
                        Milton
                     Gregg, of the New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Tribune, stated that the American party was a stronger Anti-
                        Nebraska
                     party than the Republicans.100 William Sheets,
                    president of the executive committee of the American party, issued a call to
                    members of the organization urging the members of the American party to
                    co-operate with any party to end the misrule of the present administration and
                    to restore the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise line. The executive committee called upon the members of
                    the American party to send a full delegation to the People's convention
                    on 
                  
                     96
                            Weekly State Journal, March 6, 1856.
                  
                     97
                            Weekly State Journal, Feb. 28, 1856.
                  
                     98
                            Weekly State Journal, June 26, 1856.
                  
                     99
                            Weekly State Journal, Sept. 11, 1856.
                  
                     100 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Weekly Tribune, March 18, 1856.
               
                     May 1, 1856.101 This
                    call disappointed the Republicans, many of whom desired the participation of the
                    Know Nothings in this convention as individuals, but not as members of the
                    American party.102
            
            The State convention of the American party met in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on July 16, 1856. The big question to be decided was whether or not
                    the party should run an independent electoral ticket. R. W. Thompson was made
                    chairman of the meeting. Amid much confusion it was decided that it was
                    inexpedient to put out a State or congressional ticket, to support Fillmore and
                    Donaldson, and to pledge themselves to prevent the success of the Democratic
                    party since it had surrendered itself to the extension of slavery. A resolution
                    supporting the People's State ticket was voted down. Mr. Hudson and Mr.
                    French of 
                        Clark
                     county thought that it was the duty of the Americans to support the
                    People's State ticket since they had taken part in the
                    People's State convention. Both these men said that unless the
                    convention supported the People's State ticket that they would desert
                    Fillmore for Fremont. The Journal seemed to think that the
                    result of this meeting would be a loss of one-half of the strength of the
                    American party in Indiana.103
            
            This division of opinion in the convention was foreshadowed by the attitude of
                    the State papers toward the Fillmore movement. Many papers which had endorsed
                    Fillmore before the nomination refused to support him. Three weeks after the
                    nomination of Fillmore there were but few straight out Fillmore papers in the
                    State. The Paoli Constitutionalist, the 
                        Washington
                    
                    Telegraph, the Rising Sun Visitor, the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Journal, the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Gazette, and a few others were still supporting the American
                        ticket.104 On June 9, 1856, the Sentinel said that every Know Nothing paper in Indiana but one was
                    supporting the Republican State ticket. The Corydon Argus went
                    over to Fremont on the slavery issue.105 The Rockford Herald argued that 
                  
                     101
                            Weekly Slate Journal, April 3, 1856.
                  
                     102
                            Weekly State Journal, April 10, 1856.
                  
                     103
                            Weekly State Journal, July 24, 1856; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Daily Express July 22, 1856.
                  
                     104
                            Weekly State Journal, March 13, 1856.
                  
                     105
                            Weekly State Journal, July 10, 1856.
               
                     the American vote in Indiana would decide
                    between Fremont and Buchanan, and that it was the duty of the Americans to
                    support Fremont.106 The 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Gazette had the following lines: 
                        Is it politic to divide upon Fillmore and Fremont while the Old Liners
                            unite upon Buchanan, and by our division, carry the State for their
                            ticket? Is there any reason or sense in such a course? Every one will
                            answer that there is not. Therefore it is the supremest folly and
                            weakness in the American party doggedly and determinedly to adhere to
                            their favorite candidate. 107
                  
                    
            
            The 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Daily Express turned to Fremont because Fillmore had not
                    stated his views on the restoration of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise line and the further extension of slavery into the
                        territories.108 From these statements it is evident that
                    many members of the American party were not satisfied with Fillmore because of
                    his silence on the great question of the day, the extension of slavery.
            There was great interest in the campaign. The large masses attending the
                    political meetings gave evidence that political excitement was very high.109 0. P. Morton, H. S. Lane, Caleb B. Smith, of 
                        Ohio
                    ; William Grose, Conrad Baker, S. W. Parker, W. J. Peaslee, Cassius
                    M. 
                        Clay
                    , of 
                        Kentucky
                    ; Godlove S. Orth, H. W. Ellsworth, George W. Julian, Will Cumback,
                    J. A. 
                        Hendricks
                    , David Kilgore, Daniel Mace, H. E. Talbot, Reuben A. Riley, and
                    Lucian Barbour were some of the prominent Republican speakers. Among the
                    Democratic speakers were Joseph A. Wright, A. P. Willard, Jesse B. Bright, J. L.
                    Robinson, T. A. 
                        Hendricks
                    , D. W. Voor-hees, David Turpie, G. N. Fitch, C. L. Dunham, William
                    H. English, and Joseph E. McDonald. The Republican speakers dwelt much upon
                    "Free Press, Free Speech, Free Labor, Free States and
                    Fremont." The Democratic speakers represented the Republican party as
                    championing "Free Niggers, Free Dirt, Free Fight, Free Whiskey,
                    Fremont, and Freedom."110 Fremont was charged with
                    being a Catholic in spite of the fact that he had been nominated for President
                    by the North Americans.111 Statements of many of 
                  
                     106
                            Weekly State Journal, July 10, 1856.
                  
                     107
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Daily Express, Aug. 1, 1856.
                  
                     108
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Daily Express, Oct. 10, 1856.
                  
                     109
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Locomotive, July 19, 1856.
                  
                     110
                            Democratic Herald, March 29, 1860.
                  
                     111 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Weekly Tribune, Sept. 3, 1856.
               
                     the leading Southerners to the effect that
                    disunion would follow the election of Fremont were widely circulated in
                        Indiana.112
            
            The greatest Republican meeting of this campaign was that held at 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Battle Ground, October 1, and 2. In spite of the cold and the snow
                    the Journal estimates that there were 80,000 followers of
                    freedom present. Daniel Mace was made president. Cassius M. 
                        Clay
                    , Morton, Julian, H. S. Lane, Fred Hauserick, J. H. Hull, and C. D.
                    Murray were the speakers. Banners and streamers bearing mottoes representing the
                    principles of the Republican party were seen in abundance. The two
                    days' session ended with a grand display of fireworks.113
            
            The State election occurred October 14, 1856. Morton was defeated by Willard by
                    5,842 votes.114 The State legislature was as follows: 
                        Senators holding over. Democrats, 12; Republican, 13. Senators elected,
                            Democratic, 11; Republican, 14. Total. Democratic, 23; Republican, 27.
                            House of Representatives, Democratic, 03; Republican, 35: American,
                                2.115
                  
                    
            
            In the national election which occurred November 4, 1856, Buchanan received
                    118,672 votes, Fremont 94,376, and Fillmore 22,386.116
                    Buchanan got 1910 votes more than Fremont and Fillmore together. The following
                    was the result of the congressional election:
            
               
                  
                  
                            Majority
                        
               
               
                  First district, James Lockhart (Dem.)
                  4770
               
               
                  Second district, W. H. English (Dem.)
                  2650
               
               
                  Third district, James Hughes (Dem.)
                  1516
               
               
                  Fourth district, James B. Foley (Dein.)
                  1453
               
               
                  Fifth district, David Kilgore (Rep.)
                  3949
               
               
                  Sixth district, James M. Gregg (Dem.)
                  947
               
               
                  Seventh district, J. G. Davis (Dem.)
                  1608
               
               
                  Eighth district, James Wilson (Rep.)
                  230
               
               
                  Ninth district, Schuyler Colfax (Rep.)
                  1036
               
               
                  Tenth district, S. V. Brenton (Rep.)
                  710
               
               
                  Eleventh district, J. U. Pettit (Rep.)
                  792117
                  
               
            
            
               
                  112
                        Weekly State Journal, Oct. 2, 1856; Terrc Haute Daily Express, Aug. 7, 1856; 
                            Logansport
                        
                        Journal, Aug. 23, 1856.
               
                  113
                        Weekly State Journal, Oct. 9, 1856.
               
                  114
                        Weekly State Journal, Dec. 4, 1856.
               
                  115
                        
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Daily Express, Nov. 17, 1856.
               
                  116
                        Weekly State Journal, Nov. 27, 1856.
               
                  117
                        Weekly State Journal, Nov. 13, 1856.
            
            
            A comparison of this election with that of 1854 shows that the Democrats had
                    gained four congressmen from the Third, Fourth, Sixth, and Seventh Districts.
                    This gave the Democrats six congressmen to the Republican's five. It
                    will be noted that the Democratic congressmen were from the southern part of
                    Indiana, while the Republicans were elected from the northern part and the Fifth
                    District.
            What caused the defeat of the People's party? The 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Express charged the Fillmore men with voting for the
                    Democratic ticket.118 The Journal accused
                    the Americans of supporting the Democratic ticket,119
                    charged 8,000 illegal Democratic votes,120 and accused the
                    foreigners of staying at home for fear that the success of the Republicans would
                    mean a prohibitory law. George W. Julian gave two reasons for the defeat, the
                    refusal of the Know Nothings to unite with the People's party and the
                    inability of the Republicans to rally the Whigs.121 The
                    Americans denied the charge of supporting the Democratic ticket. The New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Weekly Tribune asserted that nineteen-twentieths of the
                    Fillmore men voted for Morton. It further stated that a comparison of the 46
                    counties in northern Indiana with the vote of 1854 gave a Republican loss of
                    7,000 votes. In these counties there were not more than 500 Americans.122 Later the editor stated that the cause of the defeat was
                    the advancement of the leaders of the Republican party from the restoration of
                    the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise line to an attack on the institution of slavery.123 Editor Garber, of the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier, gave as the cause of the defeat the inefficiency of
                    the leaders and the attempt to coalesce with the Americans.124
            
            The charge of the Republicans that the Americans defeated Morton does not seem to
                    be borne out by a comparison of the votes cast in October and November. Willard
                    got 691 votes less than Buchanan, while Morton got 17,763 
                  
                     118
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Daily Express. Oct. 18, 1856.
                  
                     119
                            Weekly State Journal, Oct. 30, 1856.
                  
                     120
                            Weekly State Journal, Feb. 27, 1860.
                  
                     121 Julian, Political
                            Recollections, 155.
                  
                     122 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Weekly Tribune, Oct. 22, 1856.
                  
                     123 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Weekly Tribune, Nov. 12, 1858.
                  
                     124
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, Jan. 27, 1858.
               
                     votes more than Fremont. This would seem to
                    indicate that Morton must have gotten the support of the greater portion of the
                    Fillmore men. In twenty counties of southern Indiana, where the American vote
                    was appreciable, Willard got 25,770, Buchanan, 26,521; Morton, 18,431; Fillmore,
                    12,471, and Fremont, 6,516 votes.125 The joint vote of
                    Fremont and Fillmore is 18,987, being 556 more than Morton got.
            What did the election decide? The issue was the extension of slavery. On the face
                    of the returns Indiana had decided that slavery should be extended into the free
                    territories; that the people of this State decided against free speech, free
                    press, free labor, and free territory; that the struggle for 
                        Kansas
                     should continue; that Indiana was ready to submit to the demand of
                    the South; that the constitution carried slavery into the territories.126
            
            (TO BE CONTINUED.)
            
               
                  125
                        Weekly State Journal, Nov. 20, 1856.
               
                  126
                        Weekly State Journal. Nov. C, 1856.
            
         
         
         
            The Pioneer Aristocracy∗
            
            By LOGAN ESAREY, Indiana University.
            IN the last twenty years we have again taken up the question
                    of universal education; we are just beginning again the agitation to nationalize
                    our industries; we are as undecided now as we were in 1860 concerning government
                    ownership of public utilities; we have made little real progress with the labor
                    question; the tariff is off and on again like Finnigan's train; a State
                    wide prohibition law was enacted in Indiana sixty years ago and we are now again
                    painfully working up to that point; we are a little nearer universal suffrage
                    than we were in 1860; the military system of the State is exactly where it was
                    in 1860, that is, there is none; a general reform in agriculture is now getting
                    under way, but one-half of the State is now farmed much as it was in 1860. In
                    all the essentials of fundamental progress we are very near where we laid down
                    our tools in 1860. There is far more wealth now but it is not so evenly
                    distributed; the laboring classes are in no better political or economic
                    situation than they were in 1860; the farmers are living faster than in 1860,
                    but hardly better; while the increase of absentee landlordism raises a more
                    serious agrarian problem than had arisen in 1860.
            We are at the end of the Civil War Regime. The period has been noted for its
                    great industrial development. Its characteristic men are the so-called captains
                    of industry. In the game of commercial aggrandizement they have shown the
                    greatest skill and have been rewarded with enormous fortunes. But now public
                    opinion has passed upon and condemned them in the means they used. Rebates,
                    watered stock, blue sky companies, legislative corruption, interlocking
                    directorates have become immoral and unsocial. The captains have been caught in
                    the toils of their own expert-ness and the whole system which they represent is
                    tottering 
                  
                     ∗ The word
                            "aristocracy" is used in its proper sense, meaning the
                            most skilful, the most capable, the most highly educated, the
                        best.
               
                     to ruin, and the captains themselves have
                    been sent to the rear in disgrace.
            These are the industrial aristocrats. They superseded what for lack of a better
                    name I have called The Pioneer Aristocrats. Every period in history has soon or
                    late brought forth a group of leaders in its dominant activity, sometimes
                    political, sometimes clerical, sometimes industrial, sometimes social and
                    sometimes agricultural. They are the experts with the knowledge and tools of
                    that period. The pioneer aristocrats were the experts in developing farms under
                    the conditions then prevailing. They were just as truly in possession of a body
                    of organized knowledge and expert skill as any other aristocracy of which we
                    have a record. They were the leaders, and in a way represented the best in
                    pioneer society. It seems inevitable that an aristocracy must lose sympathy for
                    the masses.
            There are distinct problems and conditions the meeting and solving of which
                    constitute pioneering. The conditions are a new stock of people in a new
                    country. Social distinction and organizations formed in older communities,
                    social cleavage which gradually takes place in older societies, family kinship
                    and other ties which come to separate people into clans or groups, all of these
                    are lacking in any large degree in a pioneer state. There is a large
                    predominance of the young aggressive, radical element. Such in general are the
                    folks. The frontier, their home, is also a land of untried resources, of untried
                    possibilities. New crops must be raised, new seed times and new harvests are
                    found necessary. New diseases requiring new remedies are met. In the midst of
                    these new conditions certain problems must be solved. Houses must be built out
                    of whatever material is readiest at hand, logs, stone, sod or brick. Farms must
                    be opened up in the forest, on the prairie or on the arid plain; or perhaps
                    mines must be opened. Whatever the most available resource of the country is, it
                    must be utilized. A special body of skill and knowledge must be developed. This
                    may involve the handling of a new metal, the discovery of a new farm crop, or
                    the modification of an old one. Finally the staple products of the new country
                    must be introduced to  the world and means
                    of transportation and communication established. Of course, while this work is
                    going on social institutions will be organized. The church and state will
                    partake of the pioneering spirit. These in the abstract are the pioneer
                    problems. The men and women who tear themselves away from established society,
                    confront these conditions and attack these problems are called pioneers. The
                    word itself, referring back to "peons" who founded the early
                    Spanish settlements in America, has no trace of its original signification.
            The pioneers of the Ohio valley were Scotch, Irish, German,
                    English and French in origin. They themselves, in 1850, were little conscious of
                    these different origins. 
                        Henry
                        Clay
                     paid the following brief tribute to these immigrants in a speech in
                    1832: 
                        The honest, patient, and industrious German readily unites with our
                            people, establishes himself on some of our fat lands, fills a capacious
                            barn, and enjoys in tranquillity the abundant fruits which his diligence
                            has gathered around him. always ready to tly to the standard of his
                            adopted country, or of its laws, when called by the duties of
                            patriotism. The gay. the versatile, the philosophical Frenchman.
                            accommodating himself cheerfully to all the vicissitudes of life,
                            incorporates himself without difticulty in our society. But. of all
                            foreigners, none amalgamate themselves so quickly with our people as the
                            natives of the Emerald Isle. In some of the visions which have passed
                            through my imagination, I have supposed that 
                                Ireland
                             was originally part and parcel of this continent, and that
                            by some extraordinary convulsion of nature it was torn from America,
                            and. drifting across the ocean, it was placed iu the vicinity of Great
                            Britain. The same open-heartedness, the same careless and uncalculating
                            indifference about human life, characterizes the inhabitants of both
                            countries. 
                                Kentucky
                             has been sometimes called the 
                                Ireland
                             of America. And I have no doubt that, if the emigration
                            were reversed, and set from America upon the shores of Europe, every
                            American emigrant to lreland would there find, as every Irish emigrant
                            here finds, a hearty welcome and a happy home.
                    
            
            They had been pioneering during two or three generations before reaching the
                        Ohio valley. Each and all were refugees and certainly
                    no one of them harbored any love for his native country. Unjust laws,
                    governmental restrictions and persecutions were the reason for their emigration.
                    A natural result of this was that each bore little patriotic regard for any
                    government. They thus easily accepted the Jeffersonian statement that government
                    is a necessary evil.  They looked with
                    suspicion on a power from which nothing good had in their estimation ever
                    emanated. Not until they, themselves, had made their own state and local
                    governments in the valley did they begin to show any affection for government.
            Likewise in the church they were all dissenters, the French Huguenots, the German
                    Moravians and Dunkards, the Irish Catholics, the Scotch Convenanters, the
                    English Methodists and the German and English Quakers. In their first American
                    homes in western 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , in the Shenandoah Valley of 
                        Virginia
                    , in the uplands of Carolina and 
                        Georgia
                    , they sustained only the loosest connection with the colonial
                    churches and governments. When they crossed the mountains during and after the
                    Revolution these feeble attachments were snapped asunder. It was not until they
                    had reconstituted their church organizations in the Ohio
                    valley that they developed any filial love for their churches. It is
                    hardly necessary to observe that these new political and religious institutions
                    were organized in harmony with pioneer life.
            For a century classical systems of education struggled for a footing among the
                    pioneers but without any noticeable result. Colleges, seminaries and academies
                    sprang up here and there in early Indiana, but they were exotic. The spirit of
                    pioneer life never lived within their classic atmosphere. There were expressions
                    in plenty of the appreciation of education by the pioneers, but no system
                    attracted their earnest support because none ever cherished their ideals or
                    attempted to teach their science, philosophy or skill. There were schools among
                    the pioneers but none of them in the sense in which the present industrial
                    schools cater to our industrial civilization. For this reason the pioneer
                    aristocracy never supported the schools as it supported its own religious and
                    political institutions.
            The central system around which the others were organized was the art of reducing
                    the wilderness to homesteads. Their ideal was the manorial homestead of 
                        England
                     and 
                        Germany
                     about 1700, the time when their refugee ancestors began leaving
                    those countries. This has been the most important occupation in America during
                    the last three centuries.  The art became
                    highly developed after about 1740, when the first real American pioneer
                    settlements were formed in western 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , the Shenandoah valley and the Carolina and 
                        Georgia
                     uplands, and reached its culmination in the Ohio
                    valley about 1860.
            Two radically different types of men and women attacked the problem. In 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and the northern part of the Shenandoah were the refugee Germans
                    called, until recently, the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Dutch, from southern and western 
                        Germany
                    . In their German homes they had been peasants. For centuries it had
                    been necessary for them to cultivate their little fields with the greatest care
                    and skill and practice the most rigid 
                        economy
                     in order to make a living and pay the heavy demands of the German
                    landlords. Every foot of land was made to yield its greatest return. They
                    produced little for the market and every need of the household had to be
                    anticipated during the year in the growing crop. They accordingly developed a
                    nice balance in their crops. There were sheep for clothing; cows for milk,
                    butter and cheese; horses only enough for the work, with a preference for oxen,
                    on account of their value for beef and hides after they were too old for
                    profitable work; hogs for meat; geese or ducks for feather beds; chickens for
                    eggs and table use; garden vegetables for the table; cabbage for sauerkraut;
                    potatoes for winter use; apples for cider, apple butter, eating and drying; corn
                    for feeding and for making whiskey; wheat for bread. They took extreme care of
                    their farming implements, cleaned their fields of rocks and stumps, and built
                    capacious barns for housing their stock and crops. All this knowledge and skill
                    they had brought with them from the Rhine hills. They stuck close to their work,
                    plodding, prosaic, practical. Their old homesteads along the Susquehanna, with
                    their red brick houses, hillside barns and productive fields, bear ample
                    evidence of their skill as farmers.
            The exact counterpart and supplement of these were the English, Irish and Scotch
                    peasants who settled in the Carolina uplands and in the Shenandoah. A glance at
                    the map will show the close geographical relation of all these settlements which
                    by 1750 were merged together. The long Shenandoah  valley, the "Great Valley" of 
                        Virginia
                     as it was called then, furnishes an easy and open connection
                    between the other two. Just as the Wallachian, Moravian, Palatine and other
                    German peasants had the same general characteristics and all passed as 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Dutch, so the 
                        Virginia
                     and Carolina backwoodsmen possessed common characteristics and
                    became known as Scotch-Irish or the "poor whites" in contrast
                    with the wealthier slave owners and the slaves. The common thing in farming in
                            
                  England, Ireland
                and 
                        Scotland
                    , as these peasants had known them, was stockraising. Especially was
                    this true in 
                        Scotland
                     and 
                        England
                    , where they pastured their herds on the moors, mountains, and
                    fen-lands. Nothing more natural than that when they saw the grassy glades of
                    their new country they at once became stock raisers and cattlemen, marketing
                    their beeves at Charleston and 
                        Philadelphia
                    . They acquired large bodies of land, let their stock stand out
                    during the winter, feeding on cane and tuft grass, built large wooden houses,
                    met many household needs with money from sales of cattle, and spent their
                    leisure time roaming the woods, hunting or arguing politics and religion at the
                    taverns or cross roads. They developed an intense, robust, independent
                    individualism, rough and boisterous, artistic and imaginative. As politicians
                    and preachers they were a tremenduous success, as farmers and business men they
                    were failures. The tumble down buildings and worn out lands of 
                        Virginia
                    , the Carolinas and 
                        Tennessee
                     are witnesses to their unthrifty farming. The 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Dutch were the reverse. They soon lost their peasant piety, took
                    little interest in politics but their granaries were the storehouses of the
                    Revolution.
            A century intervened, a long, hard century, full of the struggle with the
                    wilderness, bloody Indian wars and the harsh discipline of the frontier, their
                    "sojourn in the wilderness." The best class of Hoosier farmers
                    of southern Indiana were the highest types of pioneer character. They fulfilled
                    the definition in politics, religion, language, education and skill in farming.
                    In politics they were Jacksonian Democrats, loud and boastful; in religion they
                    were old-fashioned Baptists and shouting Methodists with a fair sprinkle of
                    Dunkards, Quakers and Presbyterians, all patrons  of the campmeeting, that most agonizing form of
                    punishment for sinners ever known in the valley. In language they excelled in
                    the picturesque lingua of the Ohio valley, which for that
                    reason has become known as the Hoosier dialect. They were strong for education,
                    a smattering of the three R's, provided it stopped safely short of
                    "book larnin,'" for they had a growing suspicion that
                    literary culture and craftiness went hand in hand and would usually be found in
                    company with some more objectionable form of moral obliquity.
            In clearing a farm and making it a place for decent, comfortable living, not
                    primarily a money-making instrument as is now the idea, they beat the whole
                    universal world, to use an anglicised form of their own idiom. Their Buckeye
                    neighbors were better statesmen, more cunning at a bargain; the Bluegrass
                    mansions were places of affluence and culture as compared to their double, hewed
                    log, or red brick houses; while the big prairie farms of 
                        Illinois
                     were rapidly outstripping theirs in the size of their crops; but
                    for all these they were still unsurpassed in those qualities that constituted
                    the typical pioneers of the Ohio valley. The army of
                    200,000 young men who marched off to the service of their country during the
                    Civil War and the other army of 200,000 young women who took their places on the
                    farm are strong argument for the validity of the home life and the institutions
                    provided by the pioneer Hoosier farmers of 1850 and justify a closer study; for,
                    as mentioned above, when the war broke out these men were just emerged from the
                    pioneer stage and had undertaken the solution of many of the political problems
                    now confronting us.
            Our aristocrats have the reputation of having been men of great physical strength
                    and activity. Their daily life was conducive to bodily vigor. No better physical
                    training could be prescribed today than to swing the ax or maul in the forest
                    ten hours a day for months at a time. In this respect southern Indiana was full
                    of Lincolns before the Civil War. Such men could help at twenty logrollings on
                    as many successive days and not require a vacation afterward. Most young men
                    could leap an eight rail fence and at gatherings it was not extraordinary to
                    find a half dozen men each of  whom could
                    jump a bar held level with the top of his head. An ordinary deer hunt would in
                    the course of the day take them on a thirty mile tramp through deep snow.
                    Harvesters would swing the scythe or cradle "from sun to sun"
                    with only brief rests for dinner and lunch. Yet between "busy
                    seasons" there were considerable periods of leisure. From the middle of
                    August to the middle of October little work was done and again from Christmas
                    till April work was easy. Usually a man who weighed 160 in August would weigh
                    200 in March.
            But there is another side to this picture. In almost every household there was
                    some old "hippo," broken either in body or spirit or usually
                    both. Ague perhaps had robbed him of the vitality necessary to compete in the
                    hard struggle. He could name a dozen diseases working on him. From his ailments
                    he had constructed a science. His corns and his rheumatism warned him of
                    approaching changes in the weather. The pale red setting sun foretold a
                    disastrous plague, most probably smallpox or "yaller" fever.
                    The crackle of the burning backlog announced an approaching snowstorm. The thick
                    corn shuck, the low-hung hornets' nest, the busy woodpeckers and
                    squirrels were sure signs of a hard winter. In the art of forecasting he was the
                    successor of the seers, soothsayers and astrologers, last and least harmful of
                    all the parasitic train. Science has usurped his throne though traces of his
                    reign still linger. By his shrewd observations, his persistent guessings and
                    artful "I told you so's" he gained a vast influence
                    over the unscientific community.
            Hippo was also a medical man. His specialty was "bitters." On
                    fine days he would potter around the premises gathering roots, leaves and bark
                    and concocting his nostrums. At other times he ventured as far as the store or
                    to some neighboring crone where he compared theories, observations and
                    experiences in the interest of his compound science of prophecy and
                    pharmacology. So complete was his sway in this field that few homes could be
                    found without its jug of bitters and so persistent has been that influence that
                    few of us today are able to defend ourselves against the patent medicine fakers
                    who cater to our inherited weakness.
            
            Our aristocrats also had traditions. One hundred years of struggle in the
                    wilderness with nature and the Indians had furnished many dramatic scenes and
                    incidents. Their fathers and grandfathers had fought with General Lewis at Point
                    Pleasant, with George Rogers 
                        Clark
                     at 
                        Vincennes
                    , with 
                        Wayne
                     at Fallen Timbers, and with 
                        Harrison
                     at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , to say nothing of the countless Indian raids from the conquest of
                    old Duquesne, to that of Blackhawk, 
                        Boone
                    , Wetzell, Kenton, Poe, and the warriors of 
                        Clark
                     and 
                        Harrison
                     were their heroes. Some future 
                        Scott
                     will find these traditions as fascinating as were those of the
                    Scottish border. No finer things are in the memories of many Hoosiers than these
                    old tales as told by some pioneer who lingered twenty years beyond his allotted
                    time apparently with no other purpose than to communicate his story to the next
                    generation.
            The volume of technical knowledge and skill acquired by the pioneer farmer far
                    exceeds what is ordinarily supposed. Where there was no extraordinary rush, land
                    was not cleared immediately. The intended field was laid off and timber selected
                    for fencing. The fence was a square rail worm, built usually nine rails high.
                    Each rail was ten feet long and about four inches square. The fence would thus
                    be eighty inches high; if a pasture fence, it was staked and ridered or simply
                    locked. The first choice of timber for the rails was walnut and poplar, though
                    oak would be used rather than haul the rails a great distance, say a quarter of
                    a mile. Usually the rails could be made so near the line of the fence that
                    hauling, with oxen and sled, was not necessary. The rails were usually made in
                    the winter while the sap was down because the timber split better then and the
                    rails lasted longer. In making the rails an ax, an iron wedge or two, a maul,
                    and at least two gluts, or wooden wedges, were necessary. The maul was made of
                    second growth hickory, if possible a hickory without any red. The sapling, five
                    or six inches through, was cut below the first roots and a maul about one foot
                    long left. The handle was then dressed down to the proper size, the maul rounded
                    off and the finished article set in the chimney corner to season a half year or
                    so. The gluts were made of dogwood saplings three inches through, each glut
                    being from twelve to sixteen inches long, dressed  down very carefully to a point. If not properly
                    tapered the glut would bounce, utterly ruining the rail splitter's
                    temper. The iron wedge was made with the same proportions and precision by the
                    blacksmith. Thus armed the pioneer rail-maker went forth, as much a skilled
                    mechanic as any cabinet maker. After the rails were laid up there was always
                    danger of some descendant of Rip Van Winkle firing the woods.
            After the fence was completed the underbrush was cut and piled and the trees and
                    saplings deadened. This latter process required both knowledge and skill again;
                    for some trees, as the hickory and willow, needed only to be barked; the oak,
                    poplar and beech needed only to be sapped; while such as the gum and sycamore
                    had to be cut deep into the red. Most trees when girdled or deadened immediately
                    died, but if a willow were peeled in the spring there were usually some
                    thousands of volunteer willows in its neighborhood a year later, while a gum or
                    sassafras deadened out of season was a calamity. Trees deadened when the sap was
                    up became sap rotten in two years, at which time if the clearing were fired many
                    of the trees would burn down and then burn up. The remaining trees could be cut,
                    rolled and burned easily. Most of the small stumps were likewise rotten and if
                    the flock of sheep had been busy nearly all the sprouts were dead.
            The field was thus ready for the plow. The most approved way of the first
                    breaking was with a stout jumping shovel and two yokes of heavy, steady oxen.
                    There was a certain amount of pleasure in watching such a plow tear through the
                    rotten roots, but the completest torture this side of eternity was plowing with
                    a jumping shovel in a rooty new-ground with a team of spirited horses. The plow,
                    excepting the iron shovel and the cutter, was produced on the farm, as were also
                    the ox yokes, and the oxen.
            The same expert knowledge coupled with the same practical skill was necessary in
                    all the various lines of farming activity. There was no refrigerator, but a
                    house was built over a spring and places prepared so that the milk crocks and
                    the butter bowl could get the benefit of the cool water. There was no cold
                    storage, but the potatoes, apples and cabbage were holed up in the ground beyond
                    the reach of frost  and a cellar provided
                    for other articles of constant use during the winter.
            Our Hoosier aristocracy had long ago lost all distinctions between Dutch and
                    Irish but they had retained the Dutch characteristic of all-'round
                    farming and had acquired some new tastes which required an even wider range of
                    production. In the barnyard were horses, cattle, hogs, sheep, ducks, geese, and
                    chickens. The heavy draft horses that formerly drew the old Conestoga gave way
                    to a lighter, quicker breed from 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                    , while at least two yokes of heavy oxen were kept for the heavy
                    hauling around the farm. There must be at least a half dozen milk cows, for
                    country butter, and hot corn bread disappeared in enormous quantities at
                    breakfast in the presence of eight or ten husky young Hoosiers and two or three
                    hired hands. At dinner or supper a quart of sweet milk was a modest allowance
                    for each person, with perhaps an extra pint for the six and eight year olds,
                    while a jug of cold buttermilk, fresh from the springhouse, was an ever present
                    comfort when the hot harvesters came up to the shade to blow after marching
                    across a ten-acre field. There must be two or three fat, yearling steers to tide
                    over the period from October to Christmas, when the pork season was closed. A
                    considerable amount of beef must be on hands also at butchering time to mix with
                    the pork to make the proper quality of sausage. Last, there must be enough milk
                    to make a dozen or so cheeses the size of a half bushel, for there might be a
                    scarcity of butter sometime during the winter.
            Our farmer also kept a weather eye on his porkers. There must be at least fifteen
                    good two-hundred pounders ready for the hog-killing, which happened along about
                    Christmas. There was no special rush, for, in any emergency like quarterly
                    meeting or a political rally, a couple of sheep or a shote or a yearling steer
                    could be killed. But the porkers must bear the brunt of the burden. They were
                    ready for fattening when two years old, until which time they followed the law
                    of the range, root hog or die. Their master never failed, however, at weaning
                    time to clip off the tip of an ear, cut a notch in it, bore a hole through it or
                    make some other mark as an indication of his affection and ownership. After one
                    month's feeding  on corn the
                    fifteen or twenty chief porcine actors at the hog-killing festival, one of the
                    big events in pioneer life, were ready for their debut. It would take a small
                    volume to give all the details of the hog killing, pork-curing
                    process—the killing, the sticking, the scalding, the hanging,
                    rendering lard, making head cheese, sausage, salting the meat in tubs, smoking
                    and finally preparing the hickory hams for the summer season. So skillful were
                    they and so tasty was the finished product that even today some of the choicest
                    products of modern packing houses are labeled country sausage or country-cured
                    hams.
            Space will not permit further descriptions of farm life activities, but we must
                    take one hasty glance at the house work, that busiest and most characteristic
                    part of the farm life. The woman's sphere in pioneer life was large and
                    indispensable. Outside the house she, together with the children, looked after
                    the sheep, caring for the lambs in the early spring, shearing the sheep,
                    washing, picking, carding, spinning, reeling, winding, knitting, weaving and
                    making the cloth into coverlets, blankets and clothing. In a large family, and
                    all were large, this was an endless task, lasting from early morn till late
                    bedtime every day in the year except Sundays. Very few persons now living have
                    the knowledge and skill to do this routine work which every pioneer girl learned
                    as a matter of course.
            The geese, most perverse of animals, were under the complete jurisdiction of the
                    women. It required a flock of two or three dozen to furnish the huge featherbeds
                    and pillows that were such an attractive feature of the farm home. Besides this
                    every child when married off was presented with a featherbed and four pillows.
                    And many a baked goose found its way to the dinner table of our aristocrat.
                    Enough chickens, say one hundred, had to be raised to furnish eggs for the
                    cooking, and the women used eggs freely in making coffee, corn bread, cakes and
                    especially for a breakfast fry in the early spring. It was the social law that
                    chicken should form the piece de resistance at all church
                    festivals and the preacher's predilection for fried chicken was known
                    of all women.
            While the men looked after the cattle in general, the milk cows came under the
                    special charge of the women; milking, 
                    straining, churning and dressing the butter was more than a mere pastime.
            In the dining room and kitchen the wife was more than queen, she was sole monarch
                    and together with her daughters was the whole working force. Providing for the
                    table required a foresight beyond our conception at present. The grocery store
                    was no assistance to her. She had to plan a year ahead. The men assisted with
                    the work to a small degree, but the family mother furnished all information and
                    gave the general directions. The father looked after the meat and bread, but
                    beyond that his knowledge and skill were limited. Canning was not practiced but
                    there was no end of preserves, apple, peach, quince, crab apple, water melon,
                    and citron; jams, marmalade, jellies of all varieties, maple syrup and sorghum,
                    dried fruits, green fruits stored in cellar, spice brush, sassafras, balsam,
                    sage, alder blossoms, buckeyes, catnip, pennyroyal, ditna and scores of other
                    things to be gathered, prepared and laid away, some to be used in cooking,
                    others as medicines, others as charms, as flavors for soups, meats, or cake. It
                    was a whole science in itself. The remembrance of such a home makes many of our
                    old grandfathers, still lingering with us, long for the good old times in a way
                    we cannot appreciate and which we therefore attribute to dotage.
            The skill of the pioneers was not all expended on the endless routine of work.
                    The social life was quite as distinctive as the farm work. Here again a valid
                    distinction can be drawn between the Hoosier and his neighbor. Society in the
                    upper circles of the Blue Grass aristocracy was not different from that among
                    the southern planters. 
                        Ohio
                     society was affected largely by the New 
                        England
                     settlers. In Indiana before the war one found almost a perfect
                    mixture of the pioneering races.
            The farmers were essentially religious. Neither dancing, gambling, duelling,
                    drunkenness, nor debauchery of any kind was countenanced by the best class,
                    although of course all existed. The various church days such as Quarterly
                    Meeting, Association, Yearly Meeting, Synod and above all the Camp Meeting were
                    celebrated each in its way. The spelling match, literary, joint debate between
                    preachers or politicians of opposite 
                    beliefs, the stump speaking, the barbecue, weddings, infares, charivaris,
                    huskings, apple parings, shooting matches, horse races were the commoner forms
                    of strictly social gatherings. Not one of the above has been outlawed or
                    discountenanced in the half century since they were so largely in vogue.
            Having pictured in a brief way the pioneer life let us analyze it. In the first
                    place it was an open society to all who had the merit to belong. If the man and
                    his wife had the ability to build up a home of this description they were by
                    that token welcomed into the social neighborhood provided their morality was up
                    to a tolerable standard. Democrats, Whigs, Presbyterians, Baptists, Methodists
                    and Universalists mingled in good fellowship. In fact, they admired the one who
                    could lay on the cudgels with force in a political or sectarian controversy.
                    Pedigree, politics, religion, or even wealth availed little without morality,
                    open door hospitality and the means of good living. Education was not necessary,
                    though a man was expected to be able to read his Bible, his county newspaper
                    (usually borrowed) and understand preachers and stump speakers. This latter was
                    not always a very severe test. In other words this aristocracy was very
                    democratic.
            Again, all this abundant activity was for the home. Could one of these old
                    pioneers come back to us now we may imagine with what surprise he would ask us
                    how we became bondsmen of this unsparing master we call the market. We raise our
                    chickens for the market, our butter is prepared for the market, our corn, our
                    cattle, our hogs, our apples, all, everything are prepared for this
                    all-consuming monster. Even worse, our schools are preparing our children for
                    the market and to the market they go and the farms are following. In the pioneer
                    days the hickory hams were prepared for the table; the last loving touch was
                    given to the jelly and the marmalade that it might grace and flavor a Sunday
                    dinner when the folks were all at home. The feather beds mounted step-ladder
                    high so that the children might find none better in any hotel in the city.
                    Everything lured to the home and conspired to keep one there. The four
                    fireplaces in the old log house did not so much add to the market price as to
                    the comfort of the folks. From 1800 to 1860 the pioneers built up a  great home civilization. The cities were mean and
                    dirty in comparison. From 1860 to the present the emphasis has gone to the city
                    until it bids fair to rob the country of every attractive feature.
            Another striking contrast between that society and ours of today is in its
                    organization. The individual was emphasized then, the community now. If there
                    was superiority in the house or farm it was due to the man or woman or both who
                    owned it. The pioneer aristocrat could say of everything about him,
                    "these are mine," and of most of them, "I made
                    them." Beginning with the State government he could say of every
                    institution with which he came in contact, "this is part of my
                    handiwork. There is no office here but what I can fill." Coming down to
                    his farm, he made practically all the furniture from the fence rails to the
                    sideboard. Except for a little iron on his plow and wagon, and the wheels of his
                    wagon and carriage he was the sole author of his line of farming implements. He,
                    at his home, might sit down to a sumptuous feast with the preacher, the judge
                    and the colonel all present and listen to their words of praise and their
                    eloquent deeds of praise, conscious that every article on the table from the
                    mutton roast to the jelly cake came from the farm which he owned and operated.
                    As a result of this a strong individualism prevailed. Each farm was an economic
                    unit, all but independent. There was great satisfaction to the farmer in this
                    condition and a satisfied, prosperous farming class is a fair basis for a good
                    society.
            Not being organized on a money-making basis our pioneer society gave much more
                    opportunity for leisurely reflection than we have at present. These were the
                    days when the neighbors, in Platonic style, gathered at the country store and
                    discussed all possible questions. There was time for checkers and horse shoes,
                    for hard cider and long green.
            There was predestination and original sin to be discussed, as well as the signs
                    for a cold or open winter. There was the latest cure for rheumatism, the latest
                    concoction of bitters struggling for recognition in good society.
            These same folks who stood speechless in the presence of the grandeur of nature
                    planted their cucumbers when the sign was in the arm so they would grow long;
                    planted their  potatoes in the dark of the
                    moon so they would not all grow to tops; knew that if the new moon lay on its
                    back the month would be dry; carried buckeyes in their pockets to keep off
                    rheumatism; carried the left front foot of a rabbit killed in a graveyard in the
                    dark of the moon for good luck; butchered their hogs in the dark of the moon
                    lest when the pork was fried it all go to grease; believed that if a child were
                    born when the sign was in the stomach he would be hearty; if the sign was in the
                    head he would be wise; if it clung to a pencil when first presented to it it was
                    destined to a noble professional career. All nature was full of personal
                    significance, full of signs and potents to their superstitious minds. But this
                    characteristic must not be passed over too lightly. Many of these signs and
                    sayings were based on long and careful observations. Their weather
                    prognostications took the place of the present weather bureau reports and at
                    least were quite as accurate. Most of the prudential sayings which 
                        Franklin
                     printed in his almanac and which have since passed for proverbs
                    were the folk lore of the thrifty German peasants, the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Dutch. A large majority of their small superstitions had kernels of
                    wisdom concealed in the cores. There were special days for special deeds, many
                    of them determined by the phases of the moon or the zodiacal sign.
            The whole pioneer atmosphere was charged with a mysterious element somewhat akin
                    to religion and somewhat akin to superstition. They were not a scientific
                    people. Their civilization was built on experience, carefully treasured up and
                    most curiously translated. There were no sufficient means for determining the
                    facts and their so-called reasoning without the facts led to no valid
                    conclusions.
            In central Indiana there located a physician, a graduate of Yale, energetic and
                    skillful. He kept two fine, fleet, black horses. His skill so far surpassed that
                    of the neighboring herb doctors that it became mysterious. Members of the family
                    almost held their breath as the silent mysterious physician entered the house,
                    ungloved his hand, passed it over the hot face of the patient, felt the pulse,
                    issued out the tiniest bit of magical powder and was gone. Some saw him sweep by
                    in the moonlight without sound or motion, others heard the click of his
                    horse's hoofs but saw nothing as he passed by in  the night on the wings of the storm, riding his
                    black charger, always going as if pursued. He was a wizard. There was no doubt.
            From a personal standpoint their philosophy was broadly humanitarian. Individuals
                    might differ in endowments or wealth, but each bore the impress of the Deity and
                    thus was entitled to respect. This conception had far-reaching consequences. It
                    made slavery impossible, prevented any deep class distinctions, made public
                    schools possible, and laid a broad foundation for Jacksonian Democracy. In
                    social life it made the difference between Emerson and 
                        Lincoln
                    , between the man who fastens his eye on a distant goal and crushes
                    on through the wreck and ruin of hopes and lives to its consummation, and the
                    man who shapes his life to afford the greatest pleasure to himself and neigbors
                    without much regard to the fulfillment of his own self-appointed destiny.
            Politically, their philosophy was most curious and their conduct contradictory.
                    Long and bitter experience had made them distrustful of government either in the
                    church or the state. Unlike the Puritans and Cavaliers and all other civilized
                    peoples of their time, they conceded no divinity to laws or courts. If the law
                    measured up to their sense of justice they enforced it, if the court meted out
                    substantial justice they obeyed it. If the law was otherwise it remained a dead
                    letter, if the court failed they called in Judge Lynch and the halter strap. Not
                    swift to transcend the law, but certain if the provocation continued. In
                    contradiction, they gave their full strength to America in the Revolution, not
                    so much because they loved America as that they hated 
                        England
                    . They fought the military part of the war of 1812 largely in
                    gratification of their enmity toward 
                        England
                     and the Indians, and finally they saved the 
                        United States
                     in the Civil War not because they hated the South, but because they
                    loved the Union. A strange and happy transformation in the attitude toward the
                    government has come about since our folks engaged in the Whiskey Rebellion,
                    wrote the 
                        Kentucky
                     Resolutions, intrigued with 
                        Spain
                     and encouraged Burr. Each recognized within himself great political
                    capacity, such that he would willingly undertake to hold any office he could
                    get, from postmaster to congressman. This confidence was inspired by the fact
                    that  he and his neighbors had organized the
                    government both state and local. All the institutions around him were his own
                    handiwork, the product of his mind and hand. He wanted all the education he
                    could get for himself and children, but he paid his taxes grudgingly.
            Economically he liked to picture himself self-sufficient and wholly independent.
                    His ideal was a farm which furnished him all the necessaries of life. He opposed
                    the state or 
                        United States
                     bank because the bank was too powerful. He could not meet it on the
                    level. He preferred a canal to a railroad because on the canal he could launch
                    his own boat and come and go independently of any other power. On a railroad he
                    would have to accommodate his needs to another man's pleasure. He was
                    in his glory floating down the 
                        Mississippi
                     with a flatboat load of produce, dickering with the plantation
                    owners on the coast. Even thus abroad he maintained the natural simplicity of
                    his life, not avaricious, not a close bargainer but reveling in his freedom to
                    buy or sell as he pleased. He made a spectacle as he ambled along the levee or
                    in the fashionable streets of 
                        New Orleans
                     or even 
                        Cincinnati
                    , with his pants legs hooked over the inside ear of his boots. He
                    was such a robust animal himself he couldn't help but pity the whole
                    world except his own neighbors in Indiana.
            Such in brief was the old society in Indiana. It demanded of its political and
                    clerical servants obedience and we might profit by the same practice. It
                    developed a capable, all-'round, independent citizenship with some good
                    qualities and some bad. It developed a type of rural home life which it made
                    attractive. Finally, it laid a heavy emphasis on individual worth and integrity,
                    an emphasis we seem to need at present.
         
         
         
            The Underground Railroad in 
                        Monroe
                     County
            By HENRY LESTER SMITH, Ph.D., 
                        Bloomington
                    , Ind.
            As has been the case in too many questions of historical interest, particularly
                    those having only a local bearing, so in the case of the Underground Railroad in 
                        Monroe
                     county, no record has been preserved from which an account could be
                    written. This question has been neglected, until now there are very few people
                    living who have any first hand information to give.
            The source of the material for this paper, therefore, has been largely the
                    statements of people who remember the stories told by those who were actually
                    engaged in aiding runaway slaves to escape to 
                        Canada
                    . An attempt has been made to check any errors that may have slipped
                    in through a lapse of memory by comparing the statements of several different
                    individuals concerning each particular bit of information. Particularly was this
                    method used in connection with the story of "Tony," about whom
                    more will be stated later in the paper. Documents, newspaper clippings, and
                    letters bearing on the subject of the Underground Railroad I was unable to find.
                    About a dozen people were consulted who remember something about specific
                    instances of aid offered to runaways, but I was able to find only three people
                    who had actually taken part in the escape of slaves. These persons were W. C.
                    Smith, who was rather intimately connected with several cases, T. N. Faris, who
                    helped escort to safety the last runaway that passed through this section, and
                    Thomas Kilpatrick, who was one of several into whose custody was placed a negro
                    that was escaping by way of a Monon train.
            Generally speaking, the people of 
                        Monroe
                     county were rather luke-warm in regard to escaping slaves. They
                    weren't actively engaged one way or the other. The small group of
                    people that was actively engaged in aiding fugitives came originally from 
                        South Carolina
                    . Some of them were influenced to  move from 
                        South Carolina
                     largely because of the slavery question. In fact, the church with
                    which they were connected, the Reformed Presbyterian church, was undergoing a
                    rupture, one of the factors of which was the question of holding slaves. The
                    break in the church came in 1833. Those who remained in the church were staunch
                    Abolitionists and many of them who had not already left 
                        South Carolina
                     before that time left then. Many, however, had noticed the drift of
                    things, and had moved before the break came. 
                        Monroe
                     county, Indiana, was one of the stopping places. Several of these
                    people entered land in 
                        Monroe
                     county, as early as 1816. From that time on they continued to
                    arrive until a few years before the Civil War. When the split in the church came
                    in 1833 there were in 
                        Monroe
                     county members of both factions. Two churches resulted from the
                    rupture. Among the people here, though the slavery question was not a paramount
                    issue in the break-up, practically all were agreed on the slavery question, so
                    they continued to work together in the interests of Abolition.
            The main motive actuating the majority of those who aided escaping slaves in this
                    community then was a religious' motive. That accounts for the
                    persistency with which they carried on their work and for the risks they ran in
                    performing what they considered their duty.
            Among those in the vicinity of 
                        Bloomington
                     who took the most active part in aiding escaping slaves were Thomas
                    Smith, James 
                        Clark
                    , Rev. J. B. Faris, John Blair, Samuel Gordon, Samuel Curry, William
                    Curry, Robert Ewing, John Russell, D. S. Irvin, W. C. Smith, T. N. Faris, Austin
                    Seward, and John Hite, while they didn't take an active part, were
                    nevertheless in sympathy with the people who were doing the work, and thus
                    encouraged and supported the cause. The greatest activity of all of these men
                    was between the dates of 1845 and 1860. Many of them were active only a few
                    years before 1860. Thomas Smith and James 
                        Clark
                     were leaders in the movement from the very beginning.
            The leading "slave catchers," as they were called, who were
                    active in this community were William and Jess Kersaw and Cornelius Mershon
                    through the entire period, and Isaac and James Adkins during the latter part of
                    the period.
            
            The first station immediately south of the 
                        Bloomington
                     station was at Walnut Ridge, a few miles this side of 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana. There were some Reformed Presbyterians at that place who
                    were interested in aiding slaves to escape. Rev. J. J. McClurkin, who was pastor
                    there for a while, was active in the cause. Isaiah Reed, a member of the
                    congregation there, came to 
                        Bloomington
                     several times with negroes. A great many people in that community
                    harbored and fed the negroes while they stopped there for a rest, and for
                    hiding. Farther south still, at 
                        Washington
                    , Davies county, lived William Hawkins, colored, a son-in-law of
                    Knolly Baker, a barber in 
                        Bloomington
                    . Hawkins, being acquainted as he was with the people of 
                        Bloomington
                     who would help the negroes, gave the negroes directions and
                    assistance on their journey north toward 
                        Bloomington
                    . In the early days of the Underground Railroad the first station
                    north of 
                        Bloomington
                     was at Moorcsville, a 
                        Quaker
                     settlement. A little later on some Reformed Presbyterians moved
                    near Morgantown and after that Morgantown became an intermediate station between 
                        Bloomington
                     and 
                        Mooresville
                    . At Morgantown James Kelso and John Cathcart took charge of the
                    negroes. Mr. Cathcart usually harbored them until an opportunity could be found
                    to take them to 
                        Mooresville
                    . Mr. Kelso took the negroes from Morgantown to 
                        Mooresville
                    . He sometimes even came to 
                        Bloomington
                     to help negroes through to Morgantown. Generally, however, the 
                        Bloomington
                     people looked after that part of the work.
            The negroes usually made their escapes during the summer time or the fall,
                    because they could get their food easily, being able to live on fruits and thus
                    avoid stopping at houses where they might be detected and captured.
                    Occasionally, however, they came through in the winter time. The case of Joel
                    Bee is the most striking example of this kind, and for that reason the story is
                    given as complete as I have been able to work it out.
            Joel Bee had made his way north as far as 
                        Salem
                     and after passing that town, which was always considered a
                    dangerous one for negroes, he found himself at the break of day in a corn field.
                    It was a little cold and he longed to go to a farm house, but considered such
                    action too dangerous  and decided to hide in
                    a corn shock. Later in the morning men came out and began shucking corn. Nearer
                    and nearer they approached him so that it was impossible for him to shift his
                    position, to walk about and get warm. He sat quiet so long that his feet were
                    frozen. More than that, he barely escaped being discovered. The huskers were
                    gradually approaching the shock he was in. About noon they began on the one next
                    to him. Before they finished it, however, Joel was delighted to hear the dinner
                    bell ring and to see the men leave their work for dinner. During the noon hour
                    he escaped to a nearby woods where he stayed until night. At dark he began his
                    painful journey north, crippling along on frozen feet. He finally made his way
                    to Samuel Gordon's, three miles south of town, the first stopping place
                    near 
                        Bloomington
                    , for practically all runaways. As was customary, because of the
                    fact that Mr. Gordon's house was rather public, beuv1; on the road, he took Joel the same night of his arrival to Thomas
                    Smith's. two miles southeast of 
                        Bloomington
                    . Here Joel Bee stayed for several weeks until his feet were cured.
                    Dr. Joseph Me-Pheeters, Thomas Smith's doctor, doctored the negro and
                    kept quiet the fact that he was being harbored there. During the stay of the
                    negro, J. C. Smith, who was at that time attending Indiana University, taught
                    him to read and write. Later on, after he reached 
                        Canada
                    , he wrote back here telling about how he was getting along. He also
                    wrote to some friend in the South directing how his wife and child might find
                    their way north. Some time later they came through bearing the letter with them.
                    The letter was written so that it could not be understood except by some one who
                    had known the writer. The mother and child stayed with Thomas Smith until they
                    could be conveniently sent on. They were brought here from 
                        Washington
                     by Hawkins, the colored man who had friends in the South and had
                    married a 
                        Bloomington
                     woman through whom he became acquainted with the people here who
                    would aid slaves to escape.
            Adkins watched closely for Joel Bee when he went through here but he failed to
                    find him. Joel Bee stayed here longer than the most of the slaves although on
                    one occasion when it was for some reason or other difficult to find the time or
                    means to take them on their way, two stayed at Robert  Ewing's two or three weeks, and helped him
                    harvest. They were frightened most of the time because on their way up here one
                    of them had, in a quarrel, hacked a man with a corn knife and they thought the
                    man's friends might be after him. The best record for time that was
                    ever made was made by a negro named Britton, who was just three days on the road
                    between his 
                        Kentucky
                     home and 
                        Canada
                    .
            The following are a few experiences that have been related to me. They throw some
                    additional light on the situation. Rev. James Faris, who took a very active part
                    in the Underground Railroad business in 
                        Monroe
                     county, was initiated into the work in 
                        South Carolina
                     in a way that would have discouraged most men from continuing it.
                    While a young man teaching school in 
                        South Carolina
                    , he witnessed an auction. One slave that was to be sold learned
                    that Mr. Faris had some money and begged so hard that finally Mr. Faris agreed
                    to purchase him and take him to 
                        Philadelphia
                    , where Mr. Faris was to enter the seminary and where the negro was
                    to work and pay him back.
            The trade was made. The following is a copy of the terms of the sale: 
                        HOPEWELL, S. C, NOV. 29, 1819.
                        Sold to Mr. James Faris my negro man Isaac, for six hundred dollars, and
                            I do hereby warrant and defend the property of the said negro man Isaac
                            to the said James Faris his heirs and assigns forever.
                        (Signed) A. PICKENS
                            (Seal)
                  
                    
            
            I am indebted to Mr. T. N. Faris for the privilege of making this copy from the
                    original, which he has in his possession. The negro proved to be a rascal and
                    ran away shortly after reaching 
                        Philadelphia
                    . Later on Mr. Faris had a family by the name of Crassen willed to
                    him, by a man in 
                        South Carolina
                    , who wanted to free them, but could not because of the 
                        South Carolina
                     law. Mr. Faris brought this family of five or six to Indiana and
                    freed them here. For several years after they were freed, Mr. Faris held himself
                    responsible for them and looked after their welfare.
            Through Mr. James Blair I was able to gather some of the experiences his father,
                    John Blair, had in connection with the Underground Railroad. Mr. John Blair was
                    particularly interested in this work for a few years just previous to the  Civil War. On one occasion Kersaws had a
                    colored woman and child just below the depot somewhere. The Abolitionists did
                    not know just how to get them away, so they arranged for Mr. Blair, whose
                    Abolition tendencies were not at the time known to Kersaws, to go to
                    Kersaw's and ask for some money that one of them owned him. Kersaw told
                    him that he could pay it the next day, that a man was coming up on the morning
                    train from 
                        Louisville
                     to claim a colored woman and child that he was holding in custody,
                    and that as soon as he got his reward, he would gladly settle. The next morning
                    Mr. Blair was at the station and was taken in by Kersaw to help watch the woman
                    and child. Kersaws felt safe because they thought they realized that Mr. Blair
                    was financially interested. During the wait a fight began which was not a rare
                    occasion at that time. Kersaws left their charge with Mr. Blair and went to see
                    the fight. In the meantime Mr. Blair succeeded in letting the mother and child
                    escape into the hands of some of the Abolitionists that were in waiting and when
                    Kersaws returned Mr. Blair upbraided them for leaving the whole task to him,
                    claiming that he had had too much to do. "You've played
                    smash," he complained. "I had too much to watch and they got
                    away." At another time Mr. Blair was passing Aunty Myrears'
                    residence on the site of the present electric light plant. Aunty
                    Myrears' was the place in town that negroes were run in for safety. She
                    saw Mr. Blair passing, and according to previous understanding sent a negro to
                    follow him. The negro was so anxious that he kept gaining ground and getting too
                    close for Mr. Blair's comfort. Walk as fast as he could, however, he
                    could not keep in the lead and was finally overtaken by the time he reached the
                    present site of the Monon Stock Yards. By that time the negro could contain
                    himself no longer and cried out, "Massy, Massy, how far is it to 
                        Canada
                    ?" Mr. Blair directed him to the Robinson farm where John
                    Russell met him and later took him to Ewing's.
            W. C. Smith, who, of all persons yet living, had the closest connection with the
                    work of the Underground Railroad, related a great many experiences that he had
                    personally. Among them was the following:
            On one occasion a negro came through by himself and  got to Thomas Smith's. Isaac Adkins had
                    heard of his arrival but had been unable to locate him. He set his forces to
                    watching in the hope that they might get a glimpse of him. In the meantime,
                    Adkins went to 
                        Louisville
                     presumably to find someone to claim him. He failed to come back
                    that night, so Thomas Smith became a little uneasy and sent his son, W. C.
                    Smith, down there the next day to watch. He got as far as New 
                        Albany
                     and located Adkins and his crowd there, so he stayed around until
                    he learned that they were not coming to 
                        Bloomington
                     until the next train. Someone of the Adkins crowd was drinking and
                    noticing Will Smith he remarked for his benefit that they would get that nigger
                    or kill someone trying. Mr. Smith concluded that he would be at least as safe
                    with a weapon as without one, so he crossed the street and bought a Colt
                    revolver. That quieted things down in a little bit. Coming up on the train
                    things came near breaking out again. The Adkins proposed a vote on the
                    presidential candidates. Will Smith, to avoid trouble, voted for Filmore. Only
                    one voted for Fremont. They were about to put this one off the train, but
                    because of the conductor's remark that just one would not amount to
                    much, and also because Will Smith voted unexpectedly for Filmore to avoid their
                    trap they quieted down. The rest of the trip to 
                        Bloomington
                     was made without excitement. Thomas Smith met the train at the
                    depot and later succeeded in transferring the negro to Robert Ewing's.
                    No one ever suspected Robert Ewing of harboring slaves. The Adkins crowd stayed
                    around several days before giving up the hunt, but they failed to find their
                    negro.
            It was customary at that time to put advertisements in the papers in regard to
                    runaway slaves. Sometimes the advertisements would be accompanied with the
                    picture of "the nigger" running away, and the reward that
                    would follow his capture. Frequently this advertising was done by large posters
                    which were scattered through the country. The reward was paid as soon as the
                    negro was delivered to 
                        Louisville
                    . The statement was made to me by two individuals that in at least a
                    few instances when the negro proved not to be the right one he was sold anyway
                    to pay for the expense of his capture.
            Among the white families with which runaway negroes usually stayed in this
                    community were those of Thomas  Smith,
                    Robert Ewing, and John Blair (and Mrs. Myrears, colored). They did not often
                    stop at Sammy Gordon's or the Faris' as they lived directly on
                    the road.
            THE STORY OF TONY
            
            Toney was a negro who escaped from his master in 
                        Kentucky
                     and undirected made his way to 
                        Monroe
                     county where he was caught by the Kersaws one Saturday night. James 
                        Clark
                    , an elder in the Presbyterian church, found out about the capture
                    the following morning on his way to church, and sent word by Tommy Moore to
                    Thomas Smith, who lived two miles in the country southeast of town. Mr. Smith
                    came to town and together with Mr. 
                        Clark
                     secured a writ authorizing them to take Tony from the Kersaws. At
                    that time the Kersaws lived on the east side of the square where the Wiles Drug
                    Store is at present located. Their place of business was in the marble work shop
                    on the site where the old Presbyterian church used to stand. The trial for the
                    possession of Tony took place before Judge David McDonald. The negro was free;
                    after which he went into the Kersaw house to get his bundle of clothes, and
                    while there he was persuaded by the Kersaws that Mr. Smith and Mr. 
                        Clark
                     were trying to get possession of him, not for the purpose of trying
                    to get him through to 
                        Canada
                    , but for the purpose of taking him back to the South. The Kersaws
                    promised him that if he would stay with them they would take him through to 
                        Canada
                    . Mr. Smith and Mr. 
                        Clark
                     failed to get possession of Tony, as the Kersaws would allow no one
                    to come around their house. In the meantime the judge had disappeared and could
                    not be found. Some students, originally from the South, had by this time joined
                    the Kersaws, and had threatened to shoot anyone who made an attempt to enter the
                    Kersaw house. One of the students was from 
                        Alabama
                     and his father was a slave holder in that State. Finally the
                    feeling got so high that a group of the students decided to attack Mr. Smith and
                    Mr. 
                        Clark
                    , but were persuaded from their purpose by Austin Seward, who told
                    them that these men stood too high in the community  to be shot down without involving a great many
                    people in the shooting affray. Mr. Smith and Mr. 
                        Clark
                     finally went home leaving the negro in the possession of the
                    Kersaws.
            Early Monday morning the Kersaws started with Tony towards 
                        Louisville
                    . Tony noticed the direction in which they were going and began to
                    feel that he had been duped. He racked his brain to remember what Sammy Gordon
                    had told him just after the trial before he went to the Kersaws for his bundle
                    of clothing. Mr. Gordon had felt that there was some danger that the Kersaws
                    might fool the negro and had consequently instructed Tony that if ever he got
                    into trouble again and wanted protection to come to the Gordon home. He
                    described the place, a one story log cabin with a two story brick at the end of
                    it, a few miles south of 
                        Bloomington
                    . The negro was told to snap the large gate latch and Mr. Gordon
                    would understand the signal and would come out and take him in. The negro
                    remembered this house since he had passed by it when he first came to 
                        Bloomington
                    .
            The Kersaws proceeded southward with Tony until they finally came to the
                    residence of Mr. Fleener, the father of Nick Fleener, a few miles north of 
                        Salem
                    . By that time the negro was tired since he was unused to riding,
                    and with weariness as an excuse he went to bed early. During the night Tony
                    heard Mr. Fleener urging the Kersaws to tie him. They argued, however, that they
                    could take Tony anywhere and that he had all the confidence in the world in them
                    and they would rather not arouse his suspicions. Tony immediately planned to
                    escape, but he did not wish to make the attempt without his clothes, so he
                    decided to wait until morning. The next morning he watched his chance and while
                    his captors were not looking he slipped into a nearby cornfield and made his way
                    into the woods where he stayed until night. At nightfall he started north again
                    and two or three nights later made his way back to the Gordon's. The
                    Kersaws finally tracked him to Gordon's but before they discovered that
                    he had been there some of them reconnoitered about Thomas Smith's place
                    east of town. That very fact warned Mr. Smith that Tony had escaped and
                    immediately guards were stationed to be on the lookout for him to protect him.
                    Mr. Gordon brought Tony to Mr. Smith's the same night that he reeached
                    the Gordon farm,  and Mr. Gordon was back
                    home before daylight the following-morning. Tony was kept at the home of Mr.
                    Smith for over a week. W. C. Smith, Thomas Smith's son, was not let
                    into the secret, but he noticed the following day that his father and his uncle,
                    Mr. Curry, as they were putting up hay would frequently go back to the rear part
                    of the loft, so he decided to see what was back there and discovered Tony.
            For several days the Kersaws stayed about the place on the pretext of gathering
                    blackberries. They had guards on all the roads and vowed that Tony would never
                    escape. In the meantime Mr. Kelso, from 
                        Mooresville
                    , had been notified and arrangements were made whereby Mr. Smith was
                    to deliver Tony to him at a point north of town as agreed upon through
                    correspondence. The time for delivering Tony came to hand. The ways of escape
                    were guarded. Finally two wagons were loaded, one a covered wagon with the ends
                    closed, which was driven by Mr. Curry, the other Mr. Smith drove, which was an
                    open wagon filled with sacks of grain. Tony was in this wagon under the sacks.
                    Mr. Smith and Mr. Curry started towards town. Mr. Smith drove his team up to the
                    square and began to mingle with the people, and especially with those whose
                    curiosity had been aroused by the covered wagon. Mr. Curry had intentionally
                    looked a little guilty and driven somewhat nervously through the town and out
                    east towards Union-ville and Morgantown. After he got a short distance from 
                        Bloomington
                     some of the pickets reported that he was whipping up his horses and
                    before long he was followed by a crowd of Kersaw sympathizers. He was finally
                    overtaken but nothing was found in the wagon. In the meantime Mr. Smith
                    unhitched his horses from where they had been and started north. As it was in
                    the dry season and there were no mills here the farmers had to take their grain
                    away; and in view of the fact that the suspicion was directed towards the Curry
                    wagon, no one suspected the negro's being in the wagon driven by Mr.
                    Smith. Mr. Smith proceeded unmolested, delivered Tony to Mr. Kelso at the
                    designated point, and proceeded to the mill. No one ever discovered how the
                    negro escaped. Some even decided that he had never returned to 
                        Bloomington
                    , and consequently was not at the Smith residence when it was being
                    watched.
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notes
            
               Household Manufactures in the 
                            United States
                        
               , 1640-1860, A Study in Industrial
                    History, By ROLLA MILTON TRYON, Assistant Professor of the Teaching of
                    History, University of 
                        Chicago
                    . The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1917; pp. xii, 413. Price $2.00 net.
            DR. TRYON might have called his volume the
                    barometer of progress. In general household manufactures in the 
                        United States
                     rose among the thriftier classes of our population, indicating by
                    their rise with fair accuracy the place and rate of progress. Likewise, in their
                    decline they indicate with equal accuracy the growing wealth and culture. The
                    phenomenon is not different from the taking on and casting off of a new fashion,
                    or the coming and going of a new farm implement. At one time it is a badge of
                    progress, at another it is the opposite. Household manufactures also, as Dr.
                    Tryon points out, characterized certain racial groups, the Puritans, Dutch,
                    Germans and Scotch being leaders. Certain economic conditions also had much to
                    do with the prevalence of household manufactures. Small farms, large families,
                    and remoteness from markets, one or all, were accompanying conditions.
            Such is the theme of the book. The author has done his work thoroughly, basing
                    his brief comment on a vast amount of data. He has necessarily used a great many
                    terms, common in the old days, but long since passed out of everyday use, just
                    as have the things themselves. A glossary, such as one finds in an edition of
                    Burns or Chaucer, would not be amiss.
            The story is a modest, homely one and in these times of war will not be read as
                    widely as it merits. What lessons the story has for us is problematical. Whether
                    a partial return to these old customs or a further discarding is preferable are
                    questions of discussion at present. It is a question of emphasizing the
                    old-fashioned, all-round type of individuality, or the narrow expert; it is a
                    contest between the home and community units. Whatever the result of these the
                    volume of Dr. Tryon will help to clarify the issues. It will also be found
                    valuable in manual training work in schools where emphasis is laid on the
                    historical development of industry.
         
         
         
            
               Economic and Social Beginnings of 
                            Michigan
                        , A Study of the Settlement of the Lower Peninsula During the
                        Territorial Period, 1805-1837. By GEORGE NEWMAN FULLER, Ph.D., Lansing; 1916, pp
                    lxxii+ 630.
            DR. FULLER has divided his subject into ten chapters, as
                    follows: Physical Conditions, General Influences, the Eastern Shore, the First
                    Inland Counties, St. Joseph Valley and 
                        Chicago
                     Road, 
                        Kalamazoo
                     and Valley and Territorial Road, the Saginaw Country, the
                        Grand River Region, Source and Character of Population,
                    and Conclusion. The text is fully illustrated by maps and amply fortified with
                    references. The wide interest in the history of Old 
                        Detroit
                     gives the volume more than a local importance. From 1700 to 1815 
                        Detroit
                     was the French and English capital of all the western country. As
                    such it belongs to the whole northern Mississippi valley.
                    Also in Governor Lewis 
                        Cass
                     the author has a character well-known nationally for almost half a
                    century. 
                        Detroit
                    , after the opening up of the country to settlement, was the center
                    of immigration and commerce. Highways from it led west to 
                        Chicago
                     and south into Indiana, making it the commercial center for the
                    pioneer trade just as it had been for a century of the Indian trade. The author
                    has confined himself, as the title indicates, to the civil side of history. The
                    Indian, French and English wars that frequently devastated the lower peninsula
                    are not mentioned. Of special interest is the chapter on the source and
                    character of the population. "The Irish were the leading foreign
                    element, with the English and the Germans close rivals. Scotch and Canadians
                    were few. 
                        New York
                     led in the native population, with New 
                        England
                     close." Foreigners made up 27 per cent, New Yorkers 37 per
                    cent, New Englanders 21 per cent, others 8 per cent. These conclusions are based
                    on a single typical county, Washtenaw, directly west of 
                        Detroit
                    . The volume is well-written, the author has taken advantage of all
                    available material and has produced a book that will supplement and supersede
                    the other histories such as those of 
                        Campbell
                    , Cooley, Farmer, Lanman and Sheldon.
         
         
         
            THE
                    
                  
                            Minnesota
                         History Bulletin for February, 1917, has an article and
                    some documents on the Genesis of the Republican party in 
                        Minnesota
                    ; also a contribution to the "Rune Stone"
                    literature, by Charles C. Wilson.
            THE
                    Bulletin for May has an article on the 
                        Monroe
                     Doctrine and the War, by Carl Becker; one on Some Possibilities of
                    Historical Field Work, by 
                        Franklin
                     F. Holbrook. This last paper was read at the 
                        Chicago
                     meeting of the Mississippi Valley Historical
                    Association, April 26-28, 1917. Mr. Holbrook is making a county survey of 
                        Minnesota
                     for the 
                        Minnesota
                     State Historical Society.
            THE
                    Nineteenth Biennial Report of the 
                            Minnesota
                         Historical Society covers the years 1915 and 1916. The
                    activity of the Society for the two years was centered around the construction
                    of its magnificent new archive building. The society has 509 members.
            THE
                    Indiana Medical Journal, March, 1917, has an article by G. C.
                    Graves, on Biblical Medicine; in the April number is an editorial on Shakespeare
                    as Doctor. In the same number is a letter by Dr. John S. Bobbs, written from 
                        Washington
                    , July 22, 1861, to Governor Morton, commenting on the Battle of
                    Bull Run.
            THE
                    Sixth Biennial Report of the 
                            North Carolina
                         Historical Commission shows remarkable historical activity
                    in that State. Few if any States are making more progress in the collection and
                    publication of their local history than 
                        North Carolina
                    .,
            
               Transactions of the Huguenot Society of 
                            South Carolina
                         for 1916 besides the record of its activities for the year
                    has a paper on the 
                        Marion
                     Family, dealing largely with its genealogy. Another timely article
                    in the same number is the Influence of Religious Persecution on Huguenot
                    Colonization, by Alexander R. Lawton. The society has a large membership, 566,
                    located in all parts of the world.
            
               
                  
                            Wisconsin
                         Historical Publications, Proceedings of the Sixty-Fourth Annual
                        Meeting, besides the annual official records,  has three historical papers of especial interest to
                    Indiana readers. The first is a paper by Arthur L. Conger on President 
                        Lincoln
                     as a War Statesman; the second by Joseph B. Thoburn, on the career
                    of Nathaniel Pryor, a native of 
                        Kentucky
                     or 
                        Virginia
                     and one of the explorers of the country west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    ; the third, by William C. Cochran, on The Dream of a Northwest
                    Confederacy. The last paper contains a considerable amount of local Indiana
                    history, based almost entirely on Foulke's Life of
                    Morton.
            
            
               Smith College Studies in History, April, 1917, deals with the
                    Development of the Power of the State Executive, by Margaret C. Alexander. This
                    study is based on 
                        New York
                     State but applies very well to any of the States.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Iowa
                         Journal of History and Politics for July, 1917, has two
                    articles of special significance for Indiana. John E. Briggs writes on the
                    Enlistment of 
                        Iowa
                     Troops During the Civil War; and Ruth A. Gallaher writes on the
                    Military Indian Frontier, 1830-1835. The latter paper was read at the recent
                    meeting of the Mississippi Valley Historical Association at 
                        Chicago
                    .
            THE
                    Catholic Historical Review, July, 1917, has two articles that
                    should appeal to Indiana readers: one by Rev. Charles L. Sonvay, C. M., on
                    Rosati's Elevation to the See of 
                        St. Louis
                     (1827) ; the other by Rev. Edwin V. O'Hara, L.L.D., on
                    Catholic Pioneers of the 
                        Oregon
                     country.
            THE
                    Journal of Negro History for July, 1917, contains a
                    twenty-page article, by Dr. H. N. Sherwood, of LaCrosse, 
                        Wisconsin
                    , entitled the Formation of the American Colonization Society. The
                    paper was read at the last meeting of the Mississippi
                    Valley Historical Association at 
                        Chicago
                    . Dr. Sherwood has done considerable work along this line. In Volume
                    II, 
                  Mississippi Valley Historical Review,
                    is another article by him. The article is written from original records gathered
                    from all parts of the world.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Missouri
                         Historical Review for 1917 contains six historical papers,
                    all of wide interest; 
                        Missouri
                    's Centennial, by W. B. Stevens; 
                        Missouri
                     and the Santa Fe Trade, by F. F.  Stephens; Missourians Abroad, by Ivan L. Epperson; A State Flower for 
                        Missouri
                    , by Marie L. Goodman; Adair County Historical Society, by E. M.
                    Violette; and How 
                        Missouri
                     Counties, Towns and Streams Were Named, by David W. Eaton.
            THE
                    Records of the American Catholic Historical Society for June,
                    1917, has a considerable number of documents relating to the San Domingo
                    Refugees who fled to 
                        Philadelphia
                     during the uprisings at the close of the eighteenth century. These
                    are edited by Jane 
                        Campbell
                    . There is also a continuation of Father Peter Helbron's
                    Register of Baptisms at Greens-bury, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , 1812-1827.
            THE
                    
                  Mississippi Valley Historical Review for
                    June, 1917, has three historical articles: The Doukhobars in 
                        Canada
                    , by Elina Thorsteinson; Sectionalism in 
                        Kentucky
                     from 1855 to 1865, by James R. Robertson; and Historical Activities
                    in the Old Northwest, by Arthur C. Cole.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Louisiana
                         Historical Quarterly made its initial appearance on the
                    anniversary of the Battle of 
                        New Orleans
                    , 1917. It is a welcome addition, doubly welcome if it will make
                    known to history all the wealth of the old Cabildo's papers. Most of
                    the first number is taken up with the Western Boundary question. A great many
                    documents on this and other subjects are given.
            THE
                    Indiana University Alumni Quarterly, July, 1917, contains the
                    Indiana University Commencement address by Lucius B. Swift. The title is
                    America's Debt to 
                        England
                    . This is a timely and scholarly address. Besides this President
                    William Lowe Bryan discusses the Function of the University; Dr. James A.
                    Woodburn describes a Commencement in War Time; and Dr. S. B. Harding contributes
                    an article on 
                        Lafayette
                     and Our Debt to 
                        France
                    .
            
               History of the Civil War Military Pensions, 1861-1865, by John
                    William Oliver. This is a doctoral thesis submitted to the history faculty of
                    the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     and is printed as Bulletin 844 of that
                    university.
            Mr. Oliver divides his subject into four chapters; the first is called the Civil
                    War Decade, in which he outlines  the six
                    pension laws enacted before congress adjourned in 1870. Chapter II deals with
                    the Codification of 1873 and attempted reforms of the Pension system. Chapter
                    III deals with the Arrears of Pensions Act 1879. Chapter IV is entitled Pensions
                    and Politics. It seems that on the whole Mr. Oliver has taken too dark a view of
                    the period. It was a period of poor public service, but the administration of
                    the Pension Bureau was not worse than that of several others. Few bills passed
                    congress in those days except they were backed by lobbies. Compared with the
                    railroad lobby of that time the pension lobby was microscopic in size. The
                    author has done well in citing many caustic remarks and editorials concerning
                    the pension system, but he owed it to his subject to state boldly the underlying
                    justice of pensions and especially of the Arrears Act of 1879.
            
               New Constitution 
                            Text
                         Book and Manual of Ready Reference, Prepared and published
                    by the Citizens League of Indiana; paper; 165 pages, price 250.
            This pamphlet has all kinds of information, intended to be valuable to delegates
                    to the lately deceased State Constitutional Convention. The Citizens League of
                    Indiana was organized at Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , August 1, 1914, to carry on an agitation for a constitutional
                    convention. It has conducted a three year campaign by means of publications and
                    speeches.
            JUDGE ROSCOE KIPER is
                    the author of a fitting little Patriot's Creed, which has been issued
                    for private circulation.
            THE "Centennial Ode of 
                        Dubois
                     County," written by George R. Wilson, was printed in the 
                        Huntingburg
                    
                    Independent, July 28, 1917. The poem celebrates the first
                    settlers of the locality.
            STATE PUBLICATIONS
         
         
            
               Fifth Annual Report of the Department of Inspection and
                        Supervision of Public Offices of Indiana, 1915-1916. GILBERT HENDREN, State Examiner.
            THIS volume is not recommended for light summer
                    reading," but for voters and taxpayers in general and public officers
                    particularly it is the best the State puts out. The work of  this office, popularly known as the State Board of
                    Accounts, falls under three heads. First, expert accountants audit the books of
                    all agents in the State who expend public money; from the country squire to the
                    governor. Detailed reports are given of each office examined, and if any
                    crookedness or mistake is found suit is instituted, if necessary, to correct it.
                    Second, there is carried on a publicity work by which all officers are kept
                    informed not only of the laws governing their office, the prices of commodities
                    to be purchased, but of approved uniform systems of bookkeeping. Third, a
                    general propaganda for a higher grade of public service with less graft. This
                    latter business, graft in the civil offices of the state, is rapidly
                    disappearing. The department has published a number of pamphlets in the last two
                    years for circulation among officers and citizens. The following are noticed:
            
               Special Report of State Examiner, 1914, by GILBERT HEN-DREN.
                    This is a brief description of the working of the office, the character of the
                    deputies, scope and progress of the work. There were examined 6,522 offices;
                    1,650 public officials were made to restore public money. The department employs
                    about forty field examiners.
            
               Indiana Statutes Relating to Township Trustees: 171 pages,
                    1915. Gilbert Hendren.
            
               Price List Guide to Trustees, pp. 61. Trustees paying more for
                    supplies than the prices there listed were required to make good the difference.
                    A revision of this was issued in 1916.
            
               The Township Ditch Law, an address by George M. Crane, before
                    the Township Trustees Association, December 9, 1915, 12 pages.
            
               Analysis of the Appropriation Ordinance or County Budget, also the
                        Compensation of County Officers, 1916, pp. 27. This is an official
                    guide for county auditors and treasurers. A similar pamphlet entitled Budget Classifications was issued by Gilbert Hendren,
                    September 1, 1916. This was an officers' manual defining terms used in
                    standard accounting.
            
            A pamphlet of 54 pages dated 1915 gives a list of officers to be investigated and
                    the order of examination in each office. This is entitled Uniform
                        System of Examination, prepared by the State Board of Accounts.
            The last publication of the Department is a Report of School House
                        Ventilating and Heating and Rules on Public Building Contracts, GILBERT
                    H. HENDREN, 1917, pp. 33 and 8. This report was prepared by C. B. Veal, School
                    of Mechanical Engineering, Purdue. It is a description and appraisal of the
                    various systems with definitions of standard terms.
         
         
            
               Biennial Report of the commissioner of Fisheries and Game of
                        Indiana, for the Fiscal Years 1914, 1915; E. C. SHIREMAN, Commissioner;
                    paper, pp. 100, illustrated.
            THIS contains a report of the work done during the period. The
                    principal activities have been in connection with Fish Hatcheries, Wild Bird
                    Protection, Game Protection and Farm Fish Ponds. In connection with the last are
                    several illustrations.
         
         
            
               Thirty-eighth Annual Report of the Indiana School for Feeble
                        Minded Youth, for the year ending September 30, 1916. DR. GEORGE S.
                    BLISS, superintendent, pp. 76.
            THIS school is located near Fort 
                        Wayne
                    . The attendance was 1,305, with 1,374 enrolled; an average of 15
                    from each county. The cost of maintenance was about $140 per capita.
                    This is conducted as a school with a farm and garden attached. The inmates make
                    their own shoes, clothing and mattresses. A great deal of the time is spent in
                    play.
         
         
            
               Sixteenth Biennial Report Bureau of Statistics for 1915 and 1916. THOMAS W. BROLLEY, Chief of Bureau; cloth, pp. 881.
            IT is almost useless to try to describe a volume of
                    statistics. The first 46 pages are devoted to Licensed Employment Agencies. Then
                    come Social Statistics, under subheads of Population, Citizenship, Marriage and
                    Divorce, Coroner's  Inquests,
                    Liquor Licenses, Option Elections, Congressional Enumeration, Registration and
                    Election and Court Business. The third section from pages 240 to 562 is occupied
                    with economic statistics. The fourth with Agricultural and the last two hundred
                    pages are taken up by Reports from the County Agents appointed to assist in
                    teaching agriculture and help farmers generally.
         
      
      
   
