
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 44, Issue 3, pages 227-334. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:44+issue:3+year:1948&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Economic and Social Effects of the Depression of 1819 in the Old Northwest
            
                    Thomas H. Greer
                    ∗
                
            In the present year of booming economic activity and inflation, it seems out of mood to discuss the
                    effects of a depression. But most economic historians who can look at the future as well as the past
                    are quite certain that this country sooner or later will again be face to face with another decline
                    of business activity. In the hope of contributing toward a better understanding of this recurrent
                    phenomenon, the writer has completed a general study of the Depression of 1819 in the 
                        United States
                    , a depression usually regarded as the first of those cyclical economic disturbances
                    which have made their mark upon American development. This paper, describing the impact of that
                    depression upon the Old Northwest, is a part of the larger study.
            The 
                        United States
                     of 1819 was, of course, predominantly agricultural, and the effects of the depression
                    were quite different from those which appear in a highly industrialized, interdependent economy. The
                    total population was slightly more than nine million, over eighty per cent of the people lived on
                    farms. In the Old Northwest, still a frontier community, the agrarian emphasis was even more
                    striking. 
                        Ohio
                    , the best settled area of the region, had approximately six hundred thousand
                    inhabitants, and of this number only thirty-five thousand lived in towns of over one hundred
                    population. 
                        Cincinnati
                    , the largest city of the Northwest, 
                  
                     ∗ Dr. Thomas H. Greer is an assistant professor of the
                            history of civilization at 
                                Michigan
                             State College, East Lansing, 
                                Michigan
                            . This paper was read at the session on "Cultural History of the Old
                            Northwest" at the sixty-second annual meeting of the American Historical
                            Association at 
                        Cleveland, Ohio
                     , on December 27, 1947.
               
                     had 9,642 inhabitants—
                        Cleveland
                     only 606. Urban problems were practically nonexistant in such a region. The total
                    population of the state of Indiana in 1819 was less than one hundred fifty thousand, while that of
                    the newly admitted commonwealth of 
                        Illinois
                     was only about fifty-five thousand. 
                        Michigan
                     Territory, embracing the future state of 
                        Wisconsin
                     as well as 
                        Michigan
                    , counted less than nine thousand inhabitants.1 It may readily be
                    seen that the total number of people affected by the Depression of 1819 in the Old Northwest was
                    relatively small—less than that of one of the larger cities of the region
                    today—the city of 
                        Cleveland
                    . The early settlements, furthermore, were located mainly in the southern and eastern
                    portion of the Old Northwest. The bulk of immigrants had crossed the Ohio River
                    from 
                  Kentucky. Tennessee
               , and other parts of the upland South.2
            
            The economy of the Northwest in 1819 was essentially primitive. Agriculture was diversified, with the
                    family comprising the principal labor unit, and crops were grown chiefly for consumption rather than
                    sale. Before the economic collapse occurred, however, there was a trend toward commercial farming.
                    Considerable quantities of flour, pork, and whisky were shipped clown the 
                        Ohio
                     to the 
                        New Orleans
                     market, while livestock was driven across the mountains to 
                  Baltimore, Philadelphia
               , and even 
                        New York City
                    . Imports into the frontier region exceeded exports, however, and created an unfavorable
                    balance of trade. Manufactured articles from Europe and the seaboard were purchased with proceeds
                    from the sale of crops, with money borrowed from banks, and with credits extended by eastern
                    commercial houses.
            The growing trade between the West, South, and East was sharply curtailed by the Depression of 1819.
                    This setback involved not only the limited commercial interests of the Northwest, but extended to
                    the larger agricultural community as well. The economic distress, which was general throughout the 
                        United States
                     from 1819 to 1825, resulted from the now familiar boom-and-bust cycle of forces. In
                        
                  
                     1
                            Fourth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1820; J. Leander Bishop, A History of American
                                Manufactures from 1608 to 1860 (3 vols., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1868), II, 262; William T. Utter, The Frontier State,
                            1803-1825, in Carl F. Wittke (ed.), The History of the State of 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (6 vols., 
                        Columbus,
                                    Ohio
                     , 1941-1944), II (1942),
                            392.
                  
                     2 Asa E. Martin, History of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1934), I, 439-440.
               
                     this instance, the boom was caused in part by the sudden
                    expansion of overseas markets following the end of the British blockade in 1815. The resulting high
                    prices for farm commodities attracted heavy immigration to western lands, and the new settlements
                    were financed by easy credit expansion. Public lands were sold by the federal government on an
                    installment payment basis, and speculators mingled with homesteaders in the rush to buy. The amount
                    of debt on acres bought from the government increased from $3, 042, 613.89 in 1815 to
                    $16, 794, 795.14 in 1819, while numerous local banks sprang up to finance land purchases
                    and improvements. In 
                        Ohio
                     alone the number of state-chartered banks increased from eight to twenty-five during
                    the three-year boom. The issue of large sums of paper money naturally resulted in price inflation,
                    and the upward spiral was accelerated by the depreciation in value of the notes of those banks whose
                    ability to redeem in specie or coin was doubtful. The traveling Scotch observer, James Flint, wrote
                    that by December, 1818, western money was in various instances thirty per cent below par in the
                    East. He explained, however, that "Tavernkeepers, grocers, and others, receive the money of
                    the banks nearest them, although they know that these banks will not pay specie for them. They see
                    that, without the rags now in circulation, they could have very little money. Everyone is afraid of
                    bursting the bubble." Prices in the Northwest rose steadily, and the increase in apparent
                    land values gave a false sense of prosperity to both farmers and speculators.3
            
            The end of the economic boom, as well as the beginning, was related to overseas markets. By 1819, the
                    major European countries had returned to normal agricultural production after the disruption of the
                    Napoleonic Wars. They no longer required the produce imported from the 
                        United States
                    . This reduction of foreign demand, aggravated by generally depressed conditions in
                    Europe, meant the collapse of the farm and land boom, which had been stimulated by abnormally 
                  
                     3
                            Niles' Weekly Register (
                        Baltimore, Maryland
                     , 1811-1837), XXVIII, 81 (April 9, 1825); James Flint, Letters from America, in Reuben G. Thwaites (ed.), Early
                                Western Travels, 1748-1846 (32 vols., 
                        Cleveland, Ohio
                     ,
                            1904-1907), IX (1904), 136; J. E. D. Shipp, Giants Days, or the Life and Tames
                                of William H. Crawford (Americus, 
                                Georgia
                            , 1909), 147-148, quoting Crawford; Benjamin H. Hibbard, A History
                                of the Public Land Policies (
                                New York
                            , 1924), 97; American State Papers: Documents Legislative and
                                Executive (38 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1832-1861), Finance (5 vols., 1832-1859), III (1834),
                        718.
               
                     large exports at high prices. The country as a whole found
                    itself in an unfavorable position relative to the balance of international payments. The excessive
                    influx of foreign manufactured goods during the boom had caused a serious drain of specie and the
                    establishment of a top-heavy indebtedness to Europe. With the loss of overseas export markets in
                    1819, the 
                        United States
                     was temporarily unable to meet its international financial obligations.
            The immediate cause of the depression, especially as viewed from the Northwest, was the contraction
                    of credit resulting from policies of the Second Bank of the 
                        United States
                    . One of the chief functions of the Bank, which had been chartered in 1816, was to
                    maintain a sound currency. A sound currency meant that bank notes should be redeemable in specie,
                    and practically all banks of the country had suspended specie payments since August, 1814. Soon
                    after William H. Crawford became Secretary of the Treasury, he directed the 
                        United States
                     Bank to resume specie payments on July 1, 1817. But the bank was deficient in coin
                    reserves and held large quantities of state bank notes. Resumption of specie payments required,
                    therefore, that the 
                        United States
                     Bank press the state banks to redeem their notes. This action, in turn, forced the
                    local institutions to call in their loans and curtail new credits. The 
                        United States
                     Bank also moved to increase cash reserves by reducing its own loans and note
                    circulation. By the middle of 1819, this deflationary action had been accomplished, but in the
                    process the country's medium of exchange had been largely dried up. Total bank note
                    circulation in the 
                        United States
                     was reduced to less than forty per cent of what it had been in 1816, and during the
                    year of crisis some eighty-five banks, of a total of 392, were forced to close their doors. The
                    contraction of purchasing power not only pricked the speculative bubble, but it undermined public
                    confidence and normal business activity.
            The impact of depression was felt in all sections of the country. John Quincy Adams, a conservative
                    observer, recorded in May, 1819, that "the present situation and prospects of the
                    country… are alarming. The bank bubbles are breaking. The staple productions of the soil,
                    constituting our principal articles of export, are falling to half and less than half the prices
                    which they have lately borne, the merchants are crumbling to ruin, manufactures perishing,
                    agriculture  stagnating, and distress universal in every part of
                    the country."4
            
            Economic collapse came as a special shock to the inhabitants of the Old Northwest, who had been
                    filled with growing optimism in the years following the War of 1812. The Indian menace had been
                    largely dispelled, rich lands were open to purchase on easy terms, and thousands of robust settlers
                    were moving into the region. Among these immigrants were many skilled tradesmen, who gave impetus to
                    the infant industries, which promised provincial economic independence. The success of steamboat
                    transportation brightened the prospects for commerce with the other sections of the country.5
            
            The loss of produce markets and the rapid evaporation of the currency shattered the golden dream of
                    prosperity. The full force of the depression descended upon the Northwest in 1820. James Flint wrote
                    that 
                        Cincinnati
                     in that year showed nothing of the stir which had animated the city on his visit
                    eighteen months earlier. Construction was almost entirely suspended while many houses stood empty.
                    So great was the unemployment, Flint declared, that many townsmen had deserted to the woods. Writing
                    from Indiana a year later, Flint estimated that he had seen upwards of fifteen hundred men looking
                    for work since the coming of hard times.6 Farm prices were so low throughout the
                    Northwest that they would hardly cover the cost of freighting. Real estate values fell sharply. It
                    was reported from Marietta that depreciation ran as high as ninety per cent. Farm hands could be had
                    for as little as five dollars a month and board, but few were hired even at that wage. The
                    proportion of failures and bankruptcies was probably larger than at any time in the history of the
                    nation, and many prominent citizens were heavily involved in debt. A considerable number of 
                        Ohio
                     speculators were jailed because of their inability to pay judgments against them.7
            
            
               
                  4 Charles F. Adams (ed.), Memoirs of John Quiney Adams
                        (12 vols., 
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1874-1877), IV (1875), 375; Alonzo B. Hepburn, A History of Currency
                            in the 
                                United States
                            
                   (
                            New York
                        , 1915), 96-97; Henry Adams (ed.), The Writings of Albert Gallatin
                        (3 vols., 
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1879), III, 291, 360-362.
               
                  5 Utter, The Frontier State, 263.
               
                  6 Flint, Letters from America, in Early
                            Western Travels, IX, 226, 238.
               
                  7 Utter, The Frontier State, 291-294.
            
            
            Depression in the West temporarily checked the flow of immigrants, who had formerly brought money
                    with them into the region. The decline in immigration is suggested by the falling off in public land
                    sales. Only 804, 063.98 acres were sold in 1820, compared with 3, 491, 014.79 in 1818. It was not
                    until 1824 that settlers again ventured westward in increasing numbers. 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana were then to resume their places as the leading areas of development, while 
                        Michigan
                     Territory was to show the greatest relative gain in land sales. The reappearance of
                    large numbers of immigrants in the Northwest was a helpful factor in the eventual recovery of the
                        region.8
            
            If optimistic hopes for easy prosperity vanished with financial disaster, most of the inhabitants of
                    the Northwest experienced little physical suffering. The communities were predominantly
                    self-sufficient, and the collapse of trade did not mean starvation to a sturdy farmer and his
                    family. The relatively small numbers that were thrown out of work in the towns shifted back to
                    farming, which in most cases they had not completely abandoned during the boom. The scarcity of
                    money did not prevent local trading, most of which was placed on a barter basis. A few items, such
                    as tea, coffee, leather, iron, and powder, were generally held for cash sale only, but products such
                    as furs, deerskins, linen, and feathers were often accepted as cash. Other articles were usually
                    bartered, with grain being used as the principal medium of exchange in the back country. Harvest
                    hands, shoemakers, tailors, and most other workmen in those areas received their pay in grain.9
            
            The most extensive and compelling problem of the depression in the Northwest was the liquidation of
                    debts. As a result of speculation and overenthusiasm, the per capita debt in the Ohio
                        Valley was the highest of any place in the country. In 1820 more than twenty-one
                    million dollars were owed to the 
                        United States
                     for public land purchases, and the larger part of this amount was due on lands in the
                    Northwest. Probably half of the men in the region were 
                  
                     8 Hibbard, A History of the Public Land Policies,
                            100, 103; "Report of the Secretary of the Treasury, " in Senate Documents, 27 Cong., 3 Sess., IV, No. 246 (serial no. 416), 6, 10.
                  
                     9 William C. Howells, Recollections of Life in 
                                    Ohio
                                , 1813-1840 (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     ,
                            1895), 137-138.
               
                     indebted to the federal government, and the fortunes of the
                    remainder were closely bound with those of the debtors.10
            
            The federal land offices in 1819 would accept only coin, 
                        United States
                     Treasury notes, or the notes of specified banks in payment on land purchases. Since
                    there was a drastic shortage of acceptable currency in the Northwest and little means of acquiring
                    more through export of produce, the land debtors faced a dilemma. In March, 1819, Indiana newspapers
                    complained bitterly of the want of land-office money, describing the situation as a public calamity
                    for the "infant state." Settlers were harder pressed than at any previous time and
                    called for an extension of the bank notes acceptable at the land offices. One account stated that
                    within six weeks executions would be in effect to the amount of all the money and receivable notes
                    in Indiana—Infancy will be thrust out to nakedness and starvation, and age to despair and
                        death."11 The legislature of Indiana, as well as the Congress of
                    the 
                        United States
                    , responded to the demands for relief, and few of the dire predictions came to pass.
            Since the unpleasant, even painful process of debt liquidation was the principal aspect of depression
                    in the Northwest, hard times largely disappeared for individual farmers as they paid off their
                    obligations and readjusted their holdings. True economic recovery, however, in the sense of a
                    revival of purchasing power and commerce, did not come to the Northwest as a whole until about 1825.
                    Most of 
                        Ohio
                     appeared to regain normalcy before Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    . The eventual return of prosperity to the region, after five long and discouraging
                    years, was related to the recovery of the rest of the nation. This recovery was accomplished in part
                    through an increase in exports, especially from the cotton South, to a reviving Europe. At the same
                    time, and more important, the foundations of a new internal economy were being laid. Eastern
                    manufactures came to life and expanded quickly during the early 1820's. The growing
                    industries of the East were to provide home markets for the produce of the West. This developing
                    alignment of commerce was facilitated by completion of the Erie Canal in 1825, the commencement of 
                        Ohio
                    's canal system, and the first construction on the National Road within that
                    state. The opening 
                  
                     10 Hibbard, A History of the Public Land Policies,
                            94.
                  
                     11 Corydon, Indiana, Gazette, March 20, 1819.
               
                     of improved transportation eastward gave promise to the farmers
                    of the Northwest. They saw brighter hopes of shipping their wheat, pork, beef, and other produce to
                    a market which could in turn supply western consumers with the goods they needed. The unfavorable
                    balance of trade of the West with the East, which up until 1825 prevented the establishment of a
                    sound economy in the frontier region, could at last be redressed.12
            
            A more immediate method of balancing internal imports and exports was the development of manufactures
                    within the Northwest itself. After the War of 1812, home manufactures were boosted as a means of
                    keeping purchasing power, especially gold and silver, in the region. Societies were formed for the
                    encouragement of local manufactures, and the number of these organizations increased with the coming
                    of hard times in 1819. In 
                        Cincinnati
                    , where the interest in manufacturing was strongest, William Henry Harrison gave his
                    personal support to the movement. Members of the societies pledged to refrain from importing
                    liquors, fruits, or preserves, and to give preference wherever possible to locally-made products. In
                    1823, the General Assembly of 
                        Ohio
                    , acting on the suggestion of Harrison, passed an act to exempt textile mills, ironworks
                    and glassworks from taxation. Merchants of the state were under public pressure to sell only 
                        Ohio
                     woolens. As one of several means of popularizing home manufactures, the practice was
                    developed at county fairs of giving prizes not only for choice livestock and produce, but also for
                    the finest glassware, the best broadcloth and flannel, and other articles of local manufacture.13 The infant industries responded to these encouragements during the early
                    1820's and led the way toward a general restoration of better times. 
                        Cincinnati
                    , as well as the smaller cities of the region, was substantially aided by the stimulus
                    to manufacturing.
            The awakening interest in home industries gave rise to protectionist tariff sentiment in the states
                    of the Old Northwest. The national contest over the tariff proved exceedingly close. Proponents of
                    the "American System, " representing chiefly the manufacturing concerns, argued
                    that higher 
                  
                     12 Corydon, Indiana, Gazette, December. 10, 1823;
                            John B. Mc-Master, A History of the People of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (8 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1922), V, 160.
                  
                     13 Utter, The Frontier State, 261-262.
               
                     rates were essential to recovery and the development of a
                    self-sustaining economy in the 
                        United States
                    . The opposition consisted mainly of the New 
                        England
                     commercial interests in combination with the cotton growers of the South. In this
                    contest, the West held the balance of votes, and the final adoption of the Tariff of 1824 would not
                    have been possible without the solid support of the states of the Northwest. Not a single vote of 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, or 
                        Illinois
                     was cast against the tariff in either house. The people of the Northwest had placed
                    their hopes for a prosperous future in the development of internal trade and local industries.14
            
            Manufactures gave some relief during the depression years and promised a great deal more, but
                    agriculture, the predominant occupation of the Northwest, recovered very slowly. While planting of
                    crops was not interrupted to any substantial degree, the marketing of produce remained difficult for
                    several years. Exports to the South and East began to increase gradually in 1822 and 1823. The
                    growth of river traffic was reflected in the greater value of flour, whisky, and animal produce
                    received at 
                        New Orleans
                     during those years. Commerce on the 
                        Ohio
                     rose by fifty per cent between 1823 and 1826, and the number of steamboats on western
                    waters rapidly increased.
            Wool growing, which in the Northwest was centered at Steubenville, became profitable again after the
                    recovery of the woolen mills. During the early part of the depression, the price of wool fell
                    sharply, and many fine merino sheep were slaughtered. Wool advanced somewhat in price after 1821,
                    and the demand was steady thereafter. Although by 1825 small shipments were sent from the Northwest
                    to eastern mills, most of the clip continued to be sold locally.
            Other industries of the Northwest, associated with agriculture, remained depressed. Lumber prices did
                    not rise substantially until after 1825, and the fur business got worse rather than better. The
                    affairs of the American Fur Company reached a critical stage by 1821. Ramsay Crooks, agent for John
                    Jacob Astor on Mackinac Island, recommended that operations be closed out because of the poor
                    market. Astor 
                  
                     14
                            Senate Documents, 18 Cong., 1 Sess., III, May 13, 1824 (serial no. 91),
                            401; Niles' Weekly Register, XXVI, 113 (April 24, 1824).
               
                     held on, but by 1825 the export of furs had fallen to half what
                    it had been in 1821, and no better prospects were in sight.15
            
            It might be expected that in the depressed conditions of the period the people would have turned to
                    their political representatives for remedies and assistance. Economic hardships generally produce a
                    crisis in relations between citizens and their government. What the government may or may not do has
                    an important bearing upon the course of depression and recovery. In the main, the national
                    administration sought to ignore the Depression of 1819. President James Monroe took the official
                    attitude that conditions were not serious and, in any case, were not within the sphere of government
                    action. 
                        Monroe
                     was concerned only insofar as the economic situation affected the revenues of the
                    government. In order to keep the budget balanced during a period of declining receipts,
                    administrative economies were ordered, and when deficits threatened in spite of retrenchment,
                    Congress authorized the Treasury to borrow up to eight million dollars. The income of the national
                    government, which had amounted to almost fifty million dollars in 1816, fell to fifteen million
                    dollars in 1821. But after striking that low mark, the receipts picked up and exceeded normal
                    expenditures for each year following until 1837.16
            
            Retrenchment was the rule in most state governments, as well as in 
                        Washington
                    . The number of state employees was reduced, and salaries were lowered. In Indiana,
                    there was a move to pare expenses still further by having the legislature meet bienially instead of
                    annually. But in spite of all the economy demands and moves, the state governments were not entirely
                    deflationary in their actions. During the depression and recovery period, the various states spent
                    large sums for internal improvements, especially canals, roads, and bridges. Such expenditures were
                    not made in the Northwest until after 1825, but the movement for state-sponsored transportation
                    improvements gained strength there during the years of hard times. One of the leading proponents of
                    public works as a recovery measure was the 
                  
                     15 Ramsay Crooks to John Jacob Astor, December 4, 1819; John Jacob
                            Astor to Ramsay Crooks, November 10, 1824, American Fur Company, Letters: Ramsay Crooks and
                            John Jacob Astor (Bound photostats, 
                                New York
                             Public Library).
                  
                     16
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, III, 582, 636; 
                                United States
                             Treasury Department, Statement of Receipts and Expenditures o the
                                Government… from 1791 to 1836 (2 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1886), II.
               
                     editor of the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Gazette. He openly challenged the theory and program of government retrenchment
                    and economy, declaring such measures to be negative rather than creative. Spending of money was
                    justified, this editor stated, if it resulted in improvements which induced greater productivity. At
                    the same time, he argued that public works would provide the greatest spur to business ever
                    experienced in the West. Idle hands would find employment, directly or indirectly, and in a few
                    years all embarrassments would be removed.17
            
            Although the national and state governments generally assumed a "hands-off"
                    attitude with reference to economic activity, they did take important steps toward relieving the
                    distress of their citizens. In the Northwest, the greatest hardship of the times was debt,
                    especially land debt. In response to widespread demands, Congress took effective action to alleviate
                    the burden. Senator Jesse B. Thomas of 
                        Illinois
                     introduced the first important land relief bill, which had the support of virtually all
                    western Congressmen.18 As finally approved in March, 1821, the law provided that
                    the land debtor could apply payments already made on various tracts to outright purchase of a chosen
                    portion of his holdings.19 By relinquishing his larger claim, the farmer was
                    able to save his home and other improvements and to free himself of debt. The law provided also that
                    if the debtor could continue the payments originally agreed to, an extension of time would be
                    permitted and accrued interest would be waived. A thirty-seven per cent discount on the balance due
                    was offered for prompt settlements. The relief act of 1821 was extended in 1822 and again in
                    succeeding years, until by 1832 eleven relief acts had been passed by Congress for the benefit of
                    men who had purchased on credit before 1820. The heavy land indebtedness was thereby reduced over a
                    period of time with little injury to the settlers of the West.20
            
            The lesson of land speculation, which was regarded as a 
                  
                     17
                            
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Liberty Hall and 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Gazette, February 1, 1825; Corydon, Indiana, Gazette, February 12, 1823.
                  
                     18
                            Journal of the Senate of the 
                                    United States
                                 of America, 1820, p. 83.
                  
                     19
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, III, 612-616.
                  
                     20 Hibbard, A History of Public Land Policies,
                            95-100; Roy Robbins, Our Landed Heritage, The Public Domain, 1776-1936
                                    (
                        Princeton, New Jersey
                     , 1942), 38-39.
               
                     contributing cause of the Depression of 1819, led Congress at
                    the same time to abolish the prevailing system of sales on credit. In April, 1820, Congress passed a
                    new Land Act, which required full payment in cash for all future purchases. This act, which must be
                    regarded as an immediate consequence of the depression, was a blow to the traditional pattern of
                    settlement in the West, and was firmly opposed by the western representatives in Congress. Settlers
                    on new land after 1820 were benefited, however, by provisions of the act which lowered the minimum
                    price from $1.64 to $1.25 per acre and reduced the minimum amount that could
                    be purchased from one hundred and sixty to eighty acres.21
            
            While the federal government moved to relieve the burden of land debt, the state legislatures took
                    steps to protect the property of debtors from action by private creditors. Thomas Hart 
                        Benton
                     of 
                        Missouri
                     declared that the principal business of legislation in the states south and west of New 
                        England
                     was intervention between debtor and creditor. Even before the depression 
                        Ohio
                     had been accustomed to an "appraisement law, " which was nearly as
                    old as the state constitution. By this act no property could be sold on execution for debts unless
                    it brought two-thirds of its value as appraised by neighbors. Supplementary laws to protect the
                    property of debtors in a period when commerce was stagnant and money scarce were passed during the
                    depression years. As a result of such measures, it could be reported from 
                        Columbus
                     that "in this state our laws guard so well both real and personal property
                    from sale on execution, that the debtor suffers hardly as much as the creditor by the pressure of
                    the times."22
            
            Indiana, which in 1818 had a more complicated legal provision, copied the 
                        Ohio
                     "appraisement law" in 1820. But in 1824, the creditor interests
                    succeeded in abolishing the whole system of legal interferences in Indiana. This move caused
                    temporary excitement and consternation among debtors in the state, but the feeling subsided with the
                    return of better times in 1825.23
            
            
               
                        Illinois
                     was one of several states which passed replevin laws during the depression years. These
                    acts permitted a stay of execution on property of all kinds if the debtor would 
                  
                     21
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, III, 556-567; Robbins, Our Landed
                                Heritage, 33-34.
                  
                     22 Quoted in the 
                        Hartford, Connecticut
                     ,
                                Courant, May 23, 1820.
                  
                     23 Corydon, Indiana, Gazette, April 21, 1824.
               
                     sign a bond or pledge to make payment at the expiration of a
                    stipulated period. 
                        Illinois
                    , along with some other western states, gave further assistance to debtors by chartering
                    a state-owned bank. The bank made loans, on mortgage security, in the form of transferable notes.
                    The legislators attempted thereby to overcome the shortage of acceptable currency for the payment of
                        debts.24
            
            Relief against the still general practice of imprisonment for debt was insistently demanded during
                    the hard times. Bills were introduced in Congress, but did not pass, which would have abolished
                    imprisonment on processes issuing from federal courts. Several states, however, took action within
                    their sphere of authority. The new states of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     already had constitutional prohibitions against imprisoning debtors who turned over
                    their property to creditors. 
                        Ohio
                     adopted similar provisions during the depression years, thereby ending the archaic
                    practice in that State.25
            
            One of the most significant effects of the depression, having broad social and political aspects, was
                    the crystallization of class and sectional feeling. The debtors, representing for the most part the
                    poorer elements of the community, were unified in a common defense of their interests against the
                    creditors. The debtor groups, furthermore, proved quite successful in pressing their demands upon
                    Congress and the state legislatures, and they were determined to expand their influence in national
                    and local affairs.
            In the West, where the majority of citizens were indebted to the federal government or eastern
                    financial interests, the debtor sentiment became a sectional feeling. The East was blamed for
                    producing the depression, for making hard times more painful, and for extending the period of
                    difficulty. The charge most commonly made was that the Atlantic states drained gold and silver from
                    the section. Western newspapers also pointed bitterly to the fact that the federal government spent
                    most of its money in the East, while taxing 
                  
                     24 William G. Sumner, A History of Banking in the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , in W. Dodsworth (ed.), A History of Banking in All the
                                Leading Nations (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1896)., I, 157; Theodore C. Pease, The Frontier State, 1818-1848
                                (Centennial History of 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , II, 
                                Chicago
                            , 1919), 74.
                  
                     25
                            
                                Washington
                            , D.C., National Intelligencer, November 29, 1921; Samuel
                            Rezneck, The Depression of 1819-1822, A Social History, " American
                                Historical Review (
                                New York
                            , 1895-), XXXIX (1933-1934), 44.
               
                     the West. Strong sectional antagonism was stirred up by this
                    kind of talk. The East naturally reciprocated, and citizens of each major geographical area began
                    increasingly to disparge the other areas. A growing and militant sectional "pride"
                    was aroused.26
            
            The Bank of the 
                        United States
                     became the symbol of greedy eastern financial interests. It was called, among other
                    things, a "sluice" for draining wealth to the East. The Bank had incurred general
                    resentment in the West when it broke the speculative boom by contracting credit and forcing the
                    resumption of specie payments. More than that, after lending liberally during the expansion period,
                    the Bank made wholesale property foreclosures after the crash, and thereby came face to face with
                    its dispossessed debtors. 
                        Benton
                     expressed in Congress the hostile emotion of the section: 
                        I know towns, yea cities… in which this bank already appears as a dominant and
                            engrossing proprietor. I have been in places where the answers to inquiries for the owners
                            of the most valuable tenements, would remind you of the answers given by the Egyptians to
                            similar questions from French officers, on their march to Cairo…, "Who
                            owns that palace?" "The Mameluke;" "Who this country
                            house?" "The Mameluke;" "These gardens?"
                            "The Mameluke;" "That field covered with rice?"
                            "The Mameluke."—And thus have I been answered, in the towns and
                            cities referred to, with the single exception of the name of the 
                                United States
                             substituted for that of the military scourge of 
                                Egypt
                            .27
                  
                    What 
                        Benton
                     described was especially true of 
                        Cincinnati
                    . The Bank came into possession of a large part of the city— hotels,
                    coffeehouses, warehouses, stables, iron foundries, and house lots.
            In addition to their anger against the Bank, which reached hysterical proportions during the
                    depression, the people of the West developed a mounting urge to extend their influence over the
                    policies of the national government. Dissatisfaction with the incumbent administration was so keen
                    that some citizens of 
                        Ohio
                     went so far as to question the wisdom of being united to a government which would
                    tolerate the injustices of the 
                        United States
                     Bank. John C. Calhoun sensed the rising discontent and its political meaning when he
                    wrote to John Quincy Adams in 1820: "There had been 
                  
                     26
                            
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Gazette, June 20, 1821;
                                    
                        Frankfort, Kentucky
                     , Argus of Western America,
                            May 24, 1821.
                  
                     27 [Thomas H. Benton], Abridgement of the Debates of
                                Congress, 1789-1856 (16 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1857-1861), XI (1859), 153.
               
                     within these two years 'an immense revolution of
                    fortunes… and a general mass of disaffection to the Government, not concentrated in any
                    particular direction, but ready to seize upon any event and looking out anywhere for a
                    leader.' "28
            
            The West was certain that the new leader should represent the new section. As early as 1821,
                    agitation was started to put a western man in the White House. Expressing the view of his region, a
                    correspondent of the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Gazette wrote that the West had a just claim to the next Presidency, because of
                    the extent of its territory and number of inhabitants. He claimed that his section should have its
                    fair turn in office, and that the need of a special program and a liberal policy demanded a western
                    man.
            Henry Clay appeared to be the most logical candidate, for he had a program, the American System,
                    which was clearly suited to the needs of the West. The other leading presidential possibility was
                    Andrew Jackson, but his program was vague, and he was unpopular in his home state of 
                        Tennessee
                     because of his opposition to depression relief laws. Nevertheless, it was Jackson who
                    eventually triumphed over 
                        Clay
                     to become the standard-bearer of the West. The people of the new section were not
                    primarily concerned with specific plans and platform. They were dominated by hatred of the East and
                    wanted, above all, a "real" Westerner in the White House. Jackson became the
                    embodiment of the West in the eyes of his followers. Therefore, "it was the hero of 
                        New Orleans
                     and the Indian fighter, the champion of the uncontaminated frontier democracy, the man
                    with 'a character for honor, integrity, and purity of motive, sacred to Americans and
                    spotless in the rolls of Fame' who rose above principles and issues."29 The great social and political wave rolled up by the depression carried
                    Jackson to a popular plurality in 1824 and the presidency itself in 1828.
            Public opinion in the Old Northwest, aside from its influence on social and political trends, is
                    significant as it reflects contemporary attitudes and thoughts. Especially 
                  
                     28 Quoted in Frederick J. Turner, Rise of the New West,
                                1819-1829, in Albert B. Hart (ed.), The American Nation, A
                            History (28 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1904-1925), XIV (1906), 147.
                  
                     29 Thomas P. Abernethy, From Frontier to Plantation in 
                                    Tennessee
                                
                      (
                        Chapel Hill, North Carolina
                     , 1932), 49; R. Carlyle
                            Buley, "The Political Balance in the Old Northwest, 1820-1860, " in
                            Indiana University Studies (25 vols., 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1910-1938), XII (1925), 411.
               
                     interesting are the reactions to the first visitation in this
                    country of a major cyclical depression. Many blamed the turn of events on the banks, eastern
                    financial interests, and general economic causes, but there were others who viewed the depression as
                    a religious, psychological, or moral phenomenon. One wrote in June, 1819, "the signs of the
                    times are great." He asserted that the many dreadful happenings were the work of 
                        Providence
                    , going on rapidly as described in the Bible. According to another, hard times were only
                    an illusion, for the apparent distress was merely the result of a transition from false prosperity
                    to normalcy. A contributor to the Indiana Gazette rationalized the situation in
                    the following terms: "We have been nationally drunk—and we are now getting
                    sober, through an interval of languor and sickly depression." This explanation of the
                    business cycle had the merit of simplicity and is more comprehensible than many interpretations
                    which have been advanced during the past century of literature on the subject.30
            
            Moral decay was widely blamed as a leading cause of hard times. Dishonesty, indolence, and especially
                    extravagance were roundly condemned. There was considerable support for the view that since unwise
                    personal habits had brought on the distress, the restoration of traditional virtues would hasten
                    recovery. One man declared that "linsey woolsey" must supplant silks and crepes,
                    and that men must come to prefer good wives who can make bread and butter to girls who can dance in
                    delicate laces. The 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Gazette called upon the ladies to do their part—to cut down on the
                    number of public balls and to work for the interest and happiness of the domestic circle. A typical
                    feminine reply to such appeals asked why women should economize when the men would probably spend
                    the saving on the "bottle."31
            
            One of the clearest descriptions of the attitude of a representative 
                        Ohio
                     farmer toward the depression is contained in an article contributed to a 
                        Chillicothe
                     newspaper in the year 1820. He addressed himself to his "BROTHER
                    FARMERS:—"
            
               
                  30
                        
                     Baltimore, Maryland
                  , American, June 16, 1819; 
                            New York
                        , American, June 2, 1819; Corydon, Indiana, Gazette, June 12, 1819.
               
                  31 Corydon, Indiana, Gazette, August 23, 1821; Niles' Weekly Register, XVIII, 321 (July 1, 1820);
                                
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
                  , Gazette, November 26,
                    1819.
            
            
            
                    I take the liberty of saying a few things to you about hard times. Now-a-days when we meet one
                        another we have nothing to say but to repeat the old complaint of hard times. When we have got
                        through the fatiguing labors of the day, and sit down with our wives and children about us in
                        the evening, instead of calculating our gains and cheering our boys and girls by promising Bill
                        and Bob a hat, and Molly and Katey a new dress after harvest and sale of our crops, we have only
                        to amuse ourselves and them with the story of hard times. If we go to town, although we are
                        invited to try a little corn as usual, and meet with the same feeling enquiries from our
                        friends, the store keepers, as formerly, about our "concerns at home;" before
                        we leave their store we are sure to be winked aside and called on for "a small balance
                        of some time standing which ought to be paid."
                    Well, it is true the times are hard enough. Two or three years ago we could get a dollar a bushel
                        for our wheat, and for our pork and beef four or five dollars per hundred. Then our farms were
                        worth something, and we could always, by some means or other, raise a little money to meet
                        "a balance of some time standing which ought to be paid." Now we can get
                        little or nothing for our wheat, our pork and our cattle. And as for our farms, we could hardly
                        give them away. In fact, it is so difficult to get money that all "balances, "
                        whether for or against us, bid fair to remain "outstanding" for a long time to
                        come….
                    The truth is, we farmers have been and still are in the way of buying too much coffee, too much
                        tea, too much foreign cloth, too much foreign finery at the stores—and drinking too
                        much corn both at home and when we are from home. There are a great many farmers as well as
                        others in our country who are becoming, as one might say, habitual drunkards, and who are in a
                        fair way of destroying themselves, wasting their property, and leaving their families as poor
                        and naked as when they came into the world.32
               
                
            By the year 1825, talk of hard times and their relation to moral reform had largely disappeared. The
                    farmers of the Northwest and the people of the 
                        United States
                     were headed into an era of prosperity, which was the next phase of an economic cycle
                    that has carried down to the present day.
            
               
                  32
                        
                     Chillicothe, Ohio
                  , Supporter, July 5, 1820, cited in Utter, The Frontier State, 293-294.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana History Teachers Association
            The annual meeting of the Indiana History Teachers Association will be held in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , December 11, 1948, in conjunction with the annual meeting of the Indiana Historical
                    Society. History teachers in the high schools, colleges, and universities should plan to be present.
                    Watch for the published program which will be incorporated in the program of the Indiana Historical
                    Society. Plan to spend December 11 in 
                        Indianapolis
                     attending the meeting of both societies.
         
         
         
            Presents to Indians along the French Frontiers in the Old Northwest, 1748-1763
            
                    Wilbur R. Jacobs
                    ∗
                
            Even before the coming of the white man, the custom of giving and receiving presents had been
                    observed for many years among the Indian confederacies settled along the 
                        Ohio
                     and Northwest frontiers. Among the aborigines, the exchange of the calumet pipe,
                    wampum, clothing, beaver pelts, and other articles was especially important during public meetings.
                    Subsequent conferences between the natives and the whites adhered to the custom of exchanging gifts
                    during the years, 1748-1763.
            The Jesuits and the early French explorers emphasized the significance of presents in dealing with
                    the aborigines. A particularly important present was the mystic calumet pipe. The bestowal of this
                    pipe, with its long stem occasionally wrapped with wampum, was sufficient cause even for the
                    cessation of hostilities among tribes which had been at war. The Algonquian Indians had such a
                    veneration for the pipe that a violation of the "law of the calumet" was an
                    offense that could not be pardoned.1
            
            Among the aborigines, wampum, like the calumet pipe, was a symbolic present whose mystic connotations
                    were never fully understood by the whites. Beads or grains, which were laboriously carved from
                    shells collected along the Atlantic coast, were carried westward as far as the 
                        Mississippi
                    . These beads served a great number of purposes. Some were laced in rectangular patterns
                    upon belts. When delivered at treaties, each so-called belt, some more than six feet in length,
                    served as an official "statement" or "word." Beads were also
                    placed on single strings of leather. These 
                  
                     ∗ Dr. Wilbur R. Jacobs is an instructor of history at 
                                Stanford
                             University, 
                                California
                            . This paper was read at the session on "The Old Northwest" at
                            the forty-first annual meeting of the Mississippi Valley Historical
                            Association at 
                        Rock Island, Illinois
                     , on April 22, 1948.
                  
                     1 Emma H. Blair (ed. and trans.), The Indian Tribes of
                                the Upper Mississippi Valley and the Region of the Great Lakes as
                                described by Nicolas Perrot, French commandant in the Northwest; Bacqueville de las
                                Potherie, French royal commissioner to 
                                    Canada
                                ; Morrell Marston, American army officer; and Thomas Forsyth, 
                                    United States
                                 agent at Fort Armstrong (2 vols., 
                        Cleveland, Ohio
                     ,
                            1911), I, 186.
               
                    strings were presented at treaties by speakers who wished to
                    emphasize certain points during their talks.2
            
            Scalps, hatchets, blankets, and food were other types of presents given by the natives, each of which
                    had a definite purpose. Among the Algonquian Indians, for example, the calumet served as a kind of
                    record of previous agreements, while wampum was used for the same purpose in the Iroquoian
                    confederacy. All tribes appear to have acknowledged the importance of the hatchet or ax as a present
                    to be used in the declaration of war. To "bury the hatchet, " especially in the
                    "bottomless pit," was one way of making peace.3
            
            In relations between the French and their savage allies, it became the practice of governmental
                    representatives to make present for present and speech for speech. Before discussing the Indian
                    policy of the French government, however, and the numerous difficulties which that government
                    encountered in its attempts, by the use of presents, to secure native allegiance, a word should be
                    said regarding the various Indian confederacies which bordered New 
                        France
                    . The members of the Algonquian who resided in the region of 
                        Maine
                     were called Abnaki, a term derived from the Algonquian words
                        "east-land."4 Actually, however, this name generally
                    referred to those Algonquian who lived along the eastern seaboard including the 
                        Delaware
                     of the Ohio Valley. It was the Algonquian warriors who traveled
                    hundreds of miles from 
                  
                     2 When strings and belts were given but not accepted, it showed that
                            the intended receiver did not comply with the request. See James Sullivan, et
                                al. (eds.), The Papers of Sir William Johnson
                                    (
                        Albany, New York
                     , 1921-) II (1922), 126, 127. Strings and
                            belts alike were accepted by the French as a token of alliance. As an illustration, see E.
                            B. O'Callaghan, et al. (eds.), Documents Relative to
                                the Colonial History of the State of 
                                    New York
                                
                      (15 vols., 
                        Albany,
                                    New York
                     , 1853-1887), X (1858),
                            141. Wampum was worn by the Algonquian tribes-men in the form of girdles and collars. These,
                            like belts and strings, served as credentials for official messengers. See Reuben G.
                            Thwaites (ed.), "The British Regime in 
                                Wisconsin
                            —1760-1800," in the Collections of the
                            State Historical Society of 
                                Wisconsin
                             (31 vols., 
                        Madison, Wisconsin
                     , 1854-1931), XVIII (1908),
                            465.
                  
                     3 See the conversation between the French and the Iroquois sachem Half
                            King (Tanacharisson) on this subject in the Minutes of the Provincial Council
                                of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                , from the Organization to the Termination of the Proprietary
                            Government (10 vols., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1851-1853), V (1851) 665-670. For a full explanation of the significance of
                            the hatchet as a gift, see Sir William Johnson's famous letter to Arthur Lee,
                            Johnson Hall, February 28, 1771, in E. B. O'Callaghan (ed.), Documentary History of the State of 
                                    New York
                                
                      (4 vols., 
                        Albany,
                                    New York
                     , 1850-1851), IV (1851),
                            430-437.
                  
                     4 Blair, The Indian Tribes of the Upper
                                    Mississippi Valley and the Region of the Great Lakes, II,
                            54n.
               
                     the remote parts of 
                        Canada
                     and the Mississippi Valley to join the French and collect their
                    rewards of presents and plunder. They were the most frequent receivers of French gifts. Among these
                    tribes were the Chippewa,5 the Sauk,6 the Fox,7 the 
                        Ottawa
                    , the Huron, the 
                        Illinois
                    , and the Miami.8 On one occasion Louis J. Montcalm had as native
                    auxiliaries more than three thousand warriors, representing thirty-three different
                        "nations."9 Foremost among these Indians in warrior
                    strength were the Miami and 
                        Ottawa
                     confederacies, having scattered settlements throughout the Great Lakes region.10
            
            Other beneficiaries of French presents were the members of the Six Nations, located within the
                    present boundaries of the state of 
                        New York
                    . The Seneca in western 
                        New York
                     were in most frequent contact with the French. Although their numbers had been
                    decimated by disease and liquor, in 1763 they could muster 1, 050 warriors while the Mohawk, the
                    recipients of British gifts, had dwindled to only 160 fighting men.11 Along the 
                        Ohio
                     frontier, there were some 789 warriors who were presented gifts by both the French and
                    the English during the period, 1748-1763.12 According to Conrad 
                  
                     5 Often called the Chippeway or the Ojibwa.
                  
                     6 Sometimes referred to as the Sacs, Sacks, or Sackis.
                  
                     7 Also called the Reynards.
                  
                     8 The Miami were called the Twightwee by the English. For a tabulation
                            of the warrior strength along the Northwest frontier in 1763, see Memorandum on the Six
                            Nations and other Confederacies, November 18, 1763, The Papers of, Sir William
                                Johnson, IV (1925), 240-246. There is some variation in the warrior strength
                            figures as printed in the Documents Relative to the Colonial History of the
                                State of 
                                    New York
                                
                     , VII (1856), 582-584. Also see Evarts B. Greene and Virginia D.
                            Harrington, American Population Before the Federal Census of 1790 (
                                New York
                            , 1932), 194-206.
                  
                     9 The Abnaki were among those Indians who aided Montcalm in the
                            victory at Fort William Henry in August, 1757. For accounts of the voracious appetites of
                            these warriors for plunder, presents, and scalps and their cruelty to British prisoners, see
                            Reuben G. Thwaites (ed.), The Jesuit Relations and Allied Documents (73
                            vols., 
                        Cleveland, Ohio
                     , 1896-1901), LXX (1900), 113-203; M. de Montcalm
                            to Brigadier General Webb, August 14, 1757, and M. de Vaudreuil to M. de Moras, Montreal,
                            September, 1757, in Documents Relative to the Colonial History of the State of 
                                    New York
                                
                     , X, 618-619, 631-634.
                  
                     10 See note 8.
                  
                     11
                            The Papers of Sir William Johnson, IV, 240-245. For maps locating the
                            tribes of the Iroquois, see the frontispieces of volumes I and II of Lewis H. Morgan, League of the HO-DE-NO-SAU-NEE or Iroquois, edited by Herbert M. Lloyd (2
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1901).
                  
                     12 See Conrad Weiser's Journal on September 8, 1748, in the
                                Minutes of the Provincial Council of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                
                     , V, 351. In 1755, Edmond Atkin, later superintendent of Indian affairs
                            for the southern colonies wrote that the 
                                Ohio
                             tribes had only five hundred warriors. See Edmond Atkin to the Board of Trade,
                            May 30, 1755, in Collection of Loudoun Papers, 578, 
                                Huntington
                             Library, 
                        San Marino, California
                     .
               
                     Weiser, the provincial interpreter of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , these tribes consisted of the 
                        Delaware
                    , the Shawnee, the Wyandot, the Mohigan, and the 
                        Ohio
                     Iroquois (these latter often called Mingo).13
            
            Since these Indian confederacies were interspersed throughout the vast chain of inland lakes and
                    rivers that made up New 
                        France
                    , their friendship was of great importance in controlling the fur trade and in the duel
                    for empire between Britain and 
                        France
                    . From 
                        Canada
                     to 
                        Illinois
                     and down the 
                        Mississippi
                     to 
                        Louisiana
                    , New 
                        France
                     was constantly exposed to attack from powerful Indian tribes. Thus presents had to be
                    made to keep the friendship of the Indians.14 The French government found this
                    procedure to be far cheaper than maintaining an expensive army throughout New 
                        France
                     in order to keep the natives pacified by force.15
            
            Besides paying this "tribute" in presents to hold the tribesmen friendly, it was
                    also the policy of the French to maintain peace between the confederacies which were among the
                    allies of New 
                        France
                    . Before the arrival in June, 1755, of Pierre Rigaud de Vaudreuil, Governor and
                    Lieutenant General of New 
                        France
                    ,16 the French policy had been to "embrace 
                  
                     13 See Conrad Weiser's Journal in note 12.
                  
                     14 The French also made it a practice to please the southern Indian
                            confederacies with gifts. For a complete report on the status and numbers of the southern
                            tribes, see Edmond Atkin's fifty-five-page letter to the Board of Trade, May 30,
                            1755, Collection of Loudoun Papers, 578. For a list of the annual resents given to the
                            Choctaw, see Dunbar Rowland (ed.), 
                        
                                    Mississippi
                                 Provincial Archives, 1763-1766, English Dominion Letters and Enclosures to
                                the Secretary of State from Major Robert Farmar and Governor George Johnstone (1
                            vol., 
                        Nashville, Tennessee
                     , 1911), I, 28-29. These shipments are also
                            mentioned in Theodore C. Pease (ed.). 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 on the Eve of the Seven Years' War, 1747-1755 in the Collections of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Library (
                        Springfield, Illinois
                     ,
                            1903-), XXIX (1940), 234-235.
                  
                     15 Sir William Johnson to the Board of Trade, Johnson Hall, May 24,
                            1765, in Clarence W. Alvord and Clarence E. Carter (eds.), The Critical Period,
                                1763-1765, in Collections of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Library, X (1915), 500-511.
                  
                     16 Pierre Rigaud de Vaudreuil de Cavagnal served as Governor of 
                                Louisiana
                             from 1743 to 1753. In the latter year, he went to 
                                France
                             and returned as governor general of New 
                                France
                             in 1755. After the capitulation of Montreal, he returned once more to 
                                France
                             where he died in 1778. He is to be distinguished from his brother, Pierre
                            Francois or Francois Pierre Rigaud de Vaudreuil who was made Governor of Montreal in 1757.
                            See Pease, 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 on the Eve of the Seven Years' War, in Collections of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Library, XXIX, pp. xix-xx. It appears that the brother was
                            captured by Admiral Edward Boscawen in 1755 but was later released. He was on the
                            "L'Alcide" which was captured off the coast of Newfoundland on
                            June 8, 1755. See Journal of M. de Vaudreuil's Voyae to 
                                Canada
                            , in Documents Relative to the Colonial History of the State of 
                                    New York
                                
                     , X, 297-299.
               
                     every occasion to foment and excite wars" among the
                    Indians in order to weaken them.17 During the infancy of New 
                        France
                    , this kind of strategy had been almost a necessity. By 1755, however, a change of
                    policy required that the French act as "protectors and pacificators."18 Now, presents and other concessions were to be the first means used to
                    reconcile those natives who favored the English. But, if these methods failed, the obstreperous
                    tribesmen were to be punished.
            Indeed, the presents which the French annually doled out to the tribesmen were a source of tremendous
                    expense to the French government—an expense deemed necessary both in times of peace and
                    war. When writing to 
                        France
                     in November, 1756, Vaudreuil declared that goods for the Indians were as important in
                    carrying on the war as were munitions. For example, only after the Abnaki and their allies had been
                    supplied with ample provisions could the French Indians be persuaded to ravage the British colonial
                    frontier. Francois Bigot,19 the Intendant, complained that in 1759 he laid out a
                    total of four hundred million francs for Indian goods.20 Even during peace time,
                    the government of New 
                        France
                     annually expended one hundred fifty thousand francs to purchase presents for the
                    tribesmen of 
                        Canada
                    .21
            
            
               
                  17 Instructions for M. de Vaudreuil, 1755, in Documents
                            Relative to the Colonial History of the State of 
                                New York
                            
                  , X, 295-296.
               
                        18
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  19 François Bigot was Intendant for New 
                            France
                         from 1748 to 1760. He was noted for his extravagance, for pilfering public funds,
                        and he was later punished. See Adam Shortt (ed.), Canadian Currency Exchange and
                            Finance during the French Period (2 vols., 
                            Ottawa
                        , 1925), II, 764-771; Pease, 
                     
                                Illinois
                             on the Eve of the Seven Years' War, in Collections of the 
                            Illinois
                         State Historical Library, XXIX, p. xxvi. Regarding Bigot's gambling,
                        Montcalm complained that "hazard has been played to excess in the Intendant's
                        house…. " See M. de Montcalm to M. de Paulmy, Quebec, February 19, 1758 in
                            Documents Relative to the Colonial History of the State of 
                                New York
                            
                  , x, 685.
               
                  20 M. Bigot to M. Berryer, Quebec, April 15 1759, in Documents Relative to the Colonial History of the State of dew York, X, 966-968. It
                        should be noted that this merchandise was purchased at inflated prices. Moreover, it is not
                        clear that all of the goods were intended as presents for the Indians. Regular outlays for
                        Indian presents were considered part of the normal expenses for the French government. Besides,
                        extraordinary expenditures were made for Indian merchandise during time of war and other
                        emergencies. For a discussion on expenses for Indian presents in the 1740's, see Norman
                        W. Caldwell, "The French in the Mississippi Valley 1740-1750,
                        " in the 
                     
                                Illinois
                             Studies in the Social Sciences (
                     Urbana, Illinois
                  , 1912-),
                        XXVI, No. 3, (1941), 33-34.
               
                  21 Memoir of Bougainville, 1757, in Reuben G. Thwaites. (ed.),
                        "The French Regime in 
                            Wisconsin
                        —1743-1760," in the Collections of the State
                        Historical Society of 
                            Wisconsin
                        , XVIII, 167-195, see 194-195.
            
            
            In addition, the channeling of Indian presents through trading posts offered an opportunity for
                    graft, and apparently few Canadian officials hesitated to cheat their government.22 At the government posts large quantities of goods earmarked as presents for the Indians
                    never reached the natives. One official complained, that "certificates of presents
                    pretended to have been made to the Indians, are accepted without any
                        examination…."23 Individuals who had monopolies on
                    trading posts purchased the king's stores and charged their expenses to the government,
                    thereby causing the king to buy Indian goods twice, once in 
                        France
                     and once again in 
                        Canada
                    .
            This financial scramble was further complicated by the unscrupulous individuals who used liquor to
                    woo the presents away from the tribesmen, once the goods were actually issued. These goods were then
                    resold to the government. Thus the Indians were "continually craving" for presents
                    and brandy, and the king might indefinitely repurchase goods to be used for gifts. The astute
                    Montcalm noted that the immense profits made by "officers, storekeepers, [and]
                    commissaries" would "impoverish" New 
                        France
                    .24 On the basis of such evidence as this, it might be safe to
                    assume that one of the reasons for the downfall of New 
                        France
                     was this excessive expenditure for Indian presents, expenditures which all but plunged
                    New 
                        France
                     into bankruptcy.
            What were these presents which the French found so expensive and the Indians prized so highly?
                    Although wampum, scalps, pipes, and hatchets were the most common presents which the French bestowed
                    upon the Indians, the natives also received various manufactured goods. The Aouapou was a native word used by the Canadians "to denote the complete suit of
                    clothing that one must give to a savage."25 This outfit 
                  
                     22 The fur trading posts maintained by the king were so mismanaged
                            that the government yearly lost a total of six hundred thousand francs. See ibid. These posts were usually given as a monopoly to an army officer. As an
                            example, see "Ordonnance de M. de la Jonquière qui permet au Sr Simblin
                            enseign des troupes en 
                                Canada
                             de faire construire à ses frais au Lac à la Carpe, un
                            fort, un maison et un magasin avec le pouvoir d'y commander et d'y faire
                            le commerce exclusif pendant le terme 6 annbes, 27 fevrier 1751, " Archives
                            Nationales, Ministère des Colonies, F 4, 14 (Library of Congress photostat).
                  
                     23 J. Berryer to M. Bigot, 
                                Versailles
                            , January 19, 1759, in Documents Relative to the Colonial History
                                of the State of 
                                    New York
                                
                     , X, 938.
                  
                     24 M. de Montcalm to M. de Normand, Montreal, April 12, 1759, ibid., 962-966.
                  
                     25 "The French Regime in 
                                Wisconsin
                            ," in Collections of the State Historical Society of 
                                Wisconsin
                            , XVIII, 193.
               
                     consisted of a blanket, a shirt, leggings, shoes, a
                    breech-cloth, and sometimes a capote. In a similar ensemble which was given to the native women,
                    "a short skirt called the petticoat (machicotté)" was substituted for
                    the breechcloth. In winter, the native allies had to be supplied with what the Canadians called the
                        Apichmont. This included a bearskin, snowshoes, and leggings.26 Apparently, the French differentiated in the quality of these "suits" of
                    clothing for the finer types were given to influential natives, while the meaner kind were doled out
                    to common warriors.
            It was also the practice of the king's agents to present the sachems with beautiful scarlet
                    coats decorated with silver buttons and lace. Neither did the alert French officers neglect to
                    clothe the older villagers who could no longer hunt or fight. They realized that it was these
                    influential old warriors who played such an important part in determining the policy of the various
                    confederacies.
            Although the stroud, a cheap woolen cloth made of rags, was almost an English monopoly, the French
                    did allot this material for blankets and clothing. The tribesmen were also presented with a host of
                    other textiles and articles of clothing. Among these were gaily colored calicoes, hats laced with
                    tinsel and trimmed with large feathers of attractive hues, ruffled and plain shirts, handkerchiefs,
                    stockings, shoes, and waistcoats.27 Purple and white French ratteen, a woolen
                    fabric used for linings and stockings, was a coveted item which even Sir William Johnson,
                    superintendent of the northern department of Indian affairs for the British, desired to give his
                    native wards.28 Despite this popularity of certain French goods, however, it
                    should not be assumed that the cloth which the French used for presents was superior to that of the
                    English. On the contrary, it was often poorly dyed and of an inferior grade.
            Medals, brass kettles of assorted sizes, iron wire, axes, scissors, combs, paints of different
                    colors, especially vermilion, thread, needles, "steels" for striking fire, looking
                    glasses, and a hundred other articles were constantly doled 
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., 193-194.
                  
                     27 Rowland, 
                        
                                    Mississippi
                                 Provincial Archives, 1763-1766, I, 28-29.
                  
                     28 Sir William Johnson also ordered confiscated French blankets that
                            had been captured by British warships because the French blankets were superior to those
                            made in 
                                England
                            . See The Papers of Sir William. Johnson, III (1921),
                        334-335.
               
                     out to the natives.29 Some were aimed to
                    please the vanity of the warrior, others were mere toys to attract the primitive mind. Still, items
                    such as needles, thread, and axes soon became necessities as the man of the Stone Age acquired the
                    thin coating of western civilization.
            Not all presents were of a peaceful nature, however. A grim note is sounded by such donations as
                    guns, powder, knives, bullets, and hatchets—items ostensibly to be used for hunting, too
                    often to be used in warfare.30
            
            Throughout this entire period, 1748-1763, New 
                        France
                     never appeared to have had adequate provisions for Indian presents or for other
                    necessities. The shortage of goods became most acute in the latter part of the French and Indian War
                    as British men-of-war caused many of the French vessels either to turn back or be captured. In 1757,
                    for example, only three out of an expected seventeen ships put in an appearance in 
                        Canada
                    .31 Vaudreuil, Montcalm, Bigot, and other French officials were
                    continually complaining about the scarcity of Indian merchandise and the high prices that resulted
                    from that scarcity, for by the year 1759, Indian goods and military supplies had skyrocketed in
                        price.32 As the French had neither goods nor munitions to give their native
                    allies, the Indians either remained "quiet on their mats" or joined the winning
                    side, for presents and plunder were their rewards if they joined the British.
            At this point, a brief summary will suffice to show the important role which presents played in the
                    actual diplomatic story of Indian politics along the French-
                        Ohio
                     and Northwest frontiers from the year 1748 to 1763.
            After the treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle in 1748, the French and British entered into competition in an
                    attempt to gain Indian friendship as a basis for the fur trade and for future alliances. During King
                    George's War and the period of peace 
                  
                     29 It is of interest to note that the articles used by the British for
                            presents to the Indians were quite similar to French presents. See Proposed Division of
                            Presents for the Northern and Southern Indians by Sir William Johnson, November 1756, in
                            Collection of Loudoun Papers, 2507; The Papers of Sir William Johnson, II,
                            898, 900.
                  
                     30 Some of the more hardened French administrators received scalps,
                            and even heads of enemy tribesmen in exchange for gifts. See Vaudreuil's Letter
                            Book, in Collection of Loudoun Papers, 26.
                  
                     31 M. Doreil to M. de Paulmy, Quebec, October 25, 1757, in Documents Relative to the Colonial History of the State of 
                                    New York
                                
                     , X, 653.
                  
                     32 M. Bigot to M. Berryer, Quebec, April 16, 1759, ibid., 967.
               
                     following that war, the Joncaire brothers,33 Philip Thomas and Chabert, were sent to distribute presents in a lavish manner among the 
                        Ohio
                     tribes and the Seneca in western 
                        New York
                    . Here they engaged in sharp competition with the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     agents, who carried elaborate merchandise worth hundreds of pounds sterling to the 
                        Ohio
                     region. The agents from the 
                        Quaker
                     colony, George Croghan, Conrad Weiser, and the half-caste interpreter Andrew Montour
                    proved, however, to be more than a match for the Joncaires. When Céloron de Blainville34 visited Logstown on the 
                        Ohio
                     in 1749, he found that his presents were not enticing enough to lure the Indians away
                    from the English. Nor were his gifts sufficiently attractive to turn the rebellious Miami leader La
                    Demoiselle, known as Old Briton to the English, away from the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     traders who came to the Miami town of Pickawillany. Between 1748 and 1752, La
                    Demoiselle encouraged the British traders to make presents, consummated 
                  
                     33 The activities of the Joncaire brothers are difficult to follow
                            because of the fact that they were both called Sieur Joncaire or simply Joncaire. Philip
                            Thomas, an ensign, was sent to reside among the Seneca in the 1740's and by 1745
                            his reports covering the activities of all of the Six Nations were sent to the governor
                            general. See "Militar and other Operations in 
                                Canada
                             during the years 1745-1746, in ibid, 38-75. The younger
                            brother Daniel, Sieur de Chabert et de Clausonne appears to have taken over the Seneca post
                            in 1748 because of the ill health of Philip Thomas. Despite this handicap, Philip Thomas
                            accompanied Céloron de Blainville in 1749 on the famous 
                                Ohio
                             expedition, giving out presents and acting as an interpreter. As officer
                            interpreters and as distributors of presents, these brothers were the most important rivals
                            of Sir William Johnson for the control of the Six Nations. In 1755, Sir William offered a
                            reward for any Frenchman in 
                                New York
                             who would capture Chabert Joncaire. See Th Papers of Sir William
                                Johnson, 11, 388-389. For a sketch of this important family, see Frank H.
                            Severance, An Old Frontier of 
                                    France
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1917), I, 151-196; II 442-443; Pease, 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 on the Eve of the Seven Years' War, in Collections of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Library, XXIX, pp. xxxiv-xxxv. There is reason to believe that
                            both of these brothers were captured by Sir William Johnson at Niagara in 1759. An excellent
                            example of Chabert's success with the Seneca is found in a record of a conference
                            between the French and the sachems of that "nation." To show his
                            allegiance to the French one of the chiefs declared, "I forget that there are any
                            English on earth, and to give you proof that I despise them and look on them as dogs, see, I
                            tear off the medal of the King of 
                                England
                             which hangs from my neck, and trample it under foot." See M. de
                            Vaudreuil to M. de Machault, Montreal, October 31, 1755, in Documents Relative
                                to the Colonial History of the State of 
                                    New York
                                
                     , X, 377-378.
                  
                     34 Also known as Céloron de Bienville. See his journal in
                            "The French Regime in 
                                Wisconsin
                            ," in the Collections of the State Historical Society
                            of 
                                Wisconsin
                            , XVIII, 36-58. For the original journal in French see Pierre Margry (ed.), Découvertes et Etablissements des Français dam
                                I'Ouest et dans le Sud de l'Amérique Septentrionale
                                (1614-1754), (6 vols., 
                                Paris
                            , 1879-1888), VI (1888), 666-726.
               
                     an alliance with the province of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     through the exchange of calumets, wampum, and other goods, and made himself the center
                    of a general conspiracy against the French. It appeared that the Wea, the Potawatomi, the Kickapoo,
                    the Piankashaw, the 
                        Ottawa
                    , and the other allies of the Miami had accepted the hatchet to strike the French!
                    English belts of wampum and large presents of goods brought in by the twenty 
                        Pennsylvania
                     traders, who wintered at Pickawillany, were responsible for this state of affairs. When
                    conciliatory presents made by the French failed in quelling the conspiracy, there was no alternative
                    for the French except to destroy Pickawillany. This they did in June, 1752. The old chief was boiled
                    and eaten before the very eyes of his confederates by the savage allies of the French officer
                    Charles Langlade,35 leader of the assault.36
            
            As a result of this show of power, plus the French occupation of the Ohio Valley
                    in 1754, French prestige among all of the northwestern Indians was enhanced. The fact that the
                    British made land purchases in the 
                        Ohio
                     region in 1752 and 1754, also caused the tribesmen to go over to the side of the
                        French.37 As a matter of truth, the services of the 
                  
                     35 Reuben G. Thwaites (ed.), The French Regime in 
                                    Wisconsin
                                
                     — 1727-1748 in Collections of the State Historical Society of 
                                Wisconsin
                            , XVII (1906), 270. The only autographed letter of Langlade's that has
                            been found has been reproduced in "The British Regime in 
                                Wisconsin
                            , in ibid., XVIII, 462. Charles Langlade was born in 1729 and
                            appears to have died after 1800. He came from a prominent family of voyageurs and Indian
                            traders and is said to have been the first settler in 
                                Wisconsin
                            . According to Pease, his full name was Charles-Michel Mouet, Sieur Langlade.
                            See 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 on the Eve of the Seven Years' War.in Collections of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Library, XXIX,. p. xxxvii. Langlade had a long and varied
                            career on the frontier participating in almost every major battle between the French and the
                            Engfish including Braddock's defeat. His influence with the Indians made him almost
                            indispensable on military campaigns. He had a son by an 
                                Ottawa
                             woman and this son served the British for many years in Canadian outposts. For
                            an excellent sketch of the father, see "The French Regime in 
                                Wisconsin
                            ," in Collections of the State Historical Society of 
                                Wisconsin
                            , XVFII, 130-132. For further information on the family see also Collections of the State Historical Society of 
                                Wisconsin
                            , V (1868), VII (1876), and VIII (1879).
                  
                     36 See Du Quesne to the French Minister, Quebec, October 25, 1752,
                            "The French Regime in 
                                Wisconsin
                            ," in Collections of the State Historical Society of 
                                Wisconsin
                            , XVIII, 128-131; The Journal of William Trent, June 21, 1752, Public Record
                            Office, Colonial Office 5/1327, Library of Congress 431-447, Colonial Office 549-569.
                  
                     37 For the British land purchases that angered the Indians, see the
                            "Treaty of Logg's Town," in 
                        
                                    Virginia
                                 Magazine of History and Biography (
                        Richmond, Virginia
                     , 1893- 1, XIII, (1905), 154-174; Robert Dinwiddie to James
                            Glen, July 28, 1755, in R. A. Brock (ed.), The Official Records of Robert
                                Dinwiddie, Lieutenant Governor of the Colony of 
                                    Virginia
                                , 1751-1758, in 
                                Virginia
                             Historical Society Collections (New Series, 11 vols.,
                                    
                        Richmond, Virginia
                     , 1882-1892), IV (1884), 125-126.
               
                     Indians could now be bought with mere promises of plunder.
                    According to Sieur de Beaujeu,38 who led the French Indians against General
                    Edward Braddock in July, 1755, the warriors came only for the booty which they might obtain.39 When the 650 French Indians found themselves all but overwhelmed with loot
                    left by the British, they were so overjoyed that they could not be prevented from returning
                    immediately to their villages, burdened with plunder.40 The British, it will be
                    recalled, did not fare so well. As a result of their failure to provide adequate presents and
                    supplies for the Cherokee and 
                        Ohio
                     Indians who were to fight for Braddock, the British were left with only eight native
                    guides, certainly no match for the French Indians.41
            
            When the dashing Marquis de Montcalm succeeded the defeated Baron Dieskau, the Marquis, according to
                    a contemporary writer, "had the report spread throughout all the Indian nations that there
                    would be plunder for those who would come and fight…."42 The
                    victories at Oswego in August, 1756, and Fort William Henry in August, 1757, afforded French native
                    allies ample opportunity for plunder and a harvest of scalps. As a matter of truth, the Indians got
                    completely out of control at Fort William Henry.43
            
            
               
                  38 His full name appears to have been Daniel Hyacinthe Marie Lienard Sieur
                        de Beaujeu.
               
                  39 Jean Marie Shea (ed.), Relations Diverses sur La Bataille
                            de Malangueulé. Gangé le 9 Juillet, 1755, par les Francois sous m. de
                            Beaujeu, Commandant du Fort du Quesne sur les Anglois sous m. Braddock, Géneral
                            en Chef des troupes Angloises (
                            New York
                        , 1860), 20.
               
                  40 M. de Vaudreuil to —, August 5, 1755, Archives Nationales,
                        Ministère des Colonies, F 3, 14, 128-131 (Library of Congress photostat). Had not the
                        Indians amused themselves in plundering, it is doubtful if any of the British would have
                        escaped. See Journal of the Operations of the Army from July 22 to September 30, 1755, in Documents Relative to the Colonial History of the State of 
                                New York
                            
                  , X, 338.
               
                  41 For an account of the problems that the British had in securing Indian
                        auxiliaries for Braddock, see Wilbur R. Jacobs, Presents to the Indians along the 
                            Ohio
                         and Northwest Frontiers, 1748-1763 (Ph.D. dissertation, University of
                                
                     California, Los Angeles, California
                  , 1947).
               
                  42 Letter from an Officer, Camp. at Chouaguen, Aust 22, 1756, in Documents Relative to th Colony History of the state of 
                                New York
                            
                  , X, 454.
               
                  43 M. de Bougainville to M. de Paulmy, Montreal, August 19, 1757, in ibid., 615. It seems that the Abnaki of Acadia complained of some ill
                        treatment on the part of the English and demanded vengeance. The British soldiers, seeking to
                        calm these warriors, gave them rum. The liquor caused the tribesmen to lose their senses and
                        they became completely out of control. It was only the "prayers, threats,
                        caresses" of Montcalm himself, at the risk of his life, that checked the savage
                        plundering and killing of the Abnaki among the British prisoners. See Ibid; M.
                        de Montcalm to Brigadier General Webb, August 14, 1757, ibid., 618-619.
            
            
            By 1760, even the Canadian Indians had been brought over to the British side. The military successes
                    achieved by James Wolfe and Jeffrey Amherst plus the latter's excessive expenditures for
                    gifts brought about this shift in "loyalty." But the parsimonious policy of
                    Amherst in regard to the matter of presents caused Indian discontent among the western and northern
                    confederacies between 1760 and 1763.44 Amherst felt that after the conquest of 
                        Canada
                     the Indians should once again hunt and earn their livelihood. For this reason, he
                    sliced expenses for gifts at every opportunity.45 Because the warriors missed
                    the "kindly presents" of the French, Pontiac was able to make the most of Indian
                    discontent. After the long wars the western Indians were practically destitute of goods and
                    supplies, especially powder and arms for hunting purposes. Yet, it was these very items that the
                    British withheld from them. Trouble inevitably resulted, and no less an authority than Sir William
                    Johnson pointed out that this penchant for economy in regard to presents was largely responsible for
                    Pontiac's conspiracy.46 Thus, it would seem that lack of French
                    presents after 1760 was to a surprising degree responsible for the Indian rebellion under Pontiac.
                    Presents had been used by both the French and the English to secure native friendship and alliances,
                    but in the end the Indian had to shift for himself.
            
               
                  44 "The British Regime in 
                            Wisconsin
                        ," in Collections of the State Historical Society of 
                            Wisconsin
                        , XVIII, 228.
               
                  45 For art of the correspondence on this matter, see the following
                        letters: Jeffrey Amherst to Henry Bouquet, April 4, 1762, Bouquet Papers, A. 4, pp. 125-126
                        (Canadian Archives photostat); same to same, May 2, 1762, Bouquet Papers, A. 4, pp. 128-132
                        (Canadian Archives photostat); same to same, June 7, 1762, Bouquet Papers, A. 4, pp. 133-135
                        (Canadian Archives photostat); same to same, July 25, 1762, Bouquet Papers, A. 4, pp. 140-141
                        (Canadian Archives photostat); George Croghan to Jeffrey Amherst, Aril 30, 1763, Bouquet Papers,
                        A. 4, pp. 227-228 (Canadian Archives photostat); Jeffrey Amherst to George Croghan, May 11,
                        1763, Bouquet Papers, A. 4, pp. 233-235 (Canadian Archives photostat). Also see the
                        "Minutes of the Proceedings of Sir William Johnson Bart with the Indians on his Way to,
                        and at the Détroit in 1761 whither he went by his Excellency Sir Jeff. Amhersts
                        Orders to Establish peace, & settle all affairs between the English, and the several
                        Nations of the Northern and Western Indians," July-September, 1761, The
                            Papers of Sir William Johnson, III, 428-503.
               
                  46 Sir William Johnson to Cadwallader Colden, Johnson Hall, December 24,
                        1763, in The Papers of Sir William Johnson, IV, 273-277.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana's Amateur Historians
            
                    Richard E. Bantu
                    ∗
                
            Having recently joined in completing a biographical and bibliographical encyclopedia of the first
                    century of Indiana writers some of us know what many have suspected—there has been much
                    writing done in the state of Indiana!
            In quality much of it was average—pretty good grist for the average publisher's
                    mill, some of it was bad and colorless (which is a depressing kind of badness—but by no
                    means limited to Indiana), and a little of it was of an inspired and masterful kind of badness which
                    some enjoy very much. The third category of Indiana writing was that which was exceedingly
                    good—and there was an astonishing amount of it. There has been variety of form and
                    subject matter a plenty.
            Sometimes it seemed that the bulk of all Hoosier output had been poetry. An analysis would scarcely
                    prove this to be the case, but one would not have been surprised, had it turned out
                    so—for every true Hoosier, when he isn't busy playing politics or cussing the
                    weather, tries his hand at poetry. (Most likely that is because James Whitcomb Riley made it all
                    look so very easy.)
            At any rate, there was much verse ranging in quality and subject matter from "Little 
                        Brown
                     Hands" through "The Curfew Must Not Ring Tonight" and
                    "The Monon Wreck" to Will Thompson's "High Tide at 
                        Gettysburg
                    ."
            Reform, of one kind or another, was a favorite choice of subject also. In the early years, religious
                    sectarianism received most attention. Several decades of vituperation were required before Baptists
                    were willing to admit that there might be one Methodist in heaven (maybe just a little one, who
                    wasn't quite bright and hadn't really known what was going on), and Methodists
                    became reconciled to Campbellites, at least to the point where they would swap horses or borrow
                    money from them.
            About the time this Utopian state of affairs came about, a new and different evangelical wave hit the
                    state, and the Indiana scribes brandished their pens again. In the thirties some one in 
                        England
                     had discovered that alcohol, used as a beverage, seemed to be sometimes associated with
                    unpleasant manifestations—domestic, moral, or physical. Word of this startling discovery
                    eventually reached the 
                        United States
                     and 
                  
                     ∗ Richard E. Banta is a resident of 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana.
               
                     finally filtered through even to Indiana. Some people in the
                    state (probably with impaired digestive systems) began to take the business seriously and before
                    long exhorters canceled their previous commitments and took the stump in behalf of this novel
                    theory: the Temperance Movement was under-weigh.
            Of course, pamphlets, books, and tracts had to be written to fortify the orators and the resulting
                    literature proved quite attractive to readers sated with the sweetness and light of the pieces in
                        The Family Magazine and The Ladies' Repository. In
                    temperance tracts, there could be blood-curdling statistics showing how many men beat how many wives
                    in the city of 
                        New York
                     alone in a given year, and how many wives died of it. It was possible to demonstrate,
                    with interesting details, how many girls went wrong in 
                        Boston
                     through the use of malt beverages, and how many people went insane and in what
                    intriguing ways their insanity manifested itself. The Indian temperance tract was a
                    nineteenth-century counterpart of True Confessions Magazine, with touches of FOP ever Amber and The Lost Weekend. It was considered by our
                    Hoosier ancestors to be right peart readin'.
            Of all the fields of writing invaded by Hoosiers, those of fiction and biography certainly resulted
                    in the greatest artistic—and financial—success.
            Some effete Easterner has intimated that Indiana writers turn to fiction as an escape from the utter
                    desolation of the Indiana scene. Of course that is a base canard. Hoosiers need no escape,
                    psychological or physical. Did any Hoosier, author or otherwise, ever leave the old state except
                    maybe to make more money? Or at worst to act as a missionary to the seaboards, East or West?
            Let the reviewers and essayists attribute the cause as they wish, the fact still remains that Indiana
                    authors of fiction ran second only to those of 
                        New York
                     state (with an average five times the population) between 1895 and 1945, and by a
                    microscopic margin at that!
            True enough, poetry, religion and reform, fiction, and biography supplied subject matter for the bulk
                    of the output —but the writing of history has not been without its strong men in the
                    state. There are Wilbur Cortez Abbott (whose work on the Cromwellian Period will still be standard a
                    century from now), Frederick Austin Ogg, Claude Bowers, and, most prolific of the moderns, Charles
                    A. and Mary Ritter  Beard.1 Even John Clark
                    Ridpath and John H. Beadle, hacks though they were, must be credited with selling a great many
                    books, whatever their stature. These were (or are), however, professional historians, and it is upon
                    the amateurs that emphasis is to be placed.
            Perhaps one should first settle the question "Who is an amateur historian?" My
                    definition of the term is this. An "amateur" historian is one without formal
                    training in the field, who is engaged in some other activity for a livelihood, and who carries on
                    research and writing as an avocation.
            Greatest of the amateurs in nineteenth-century Indiana was certainly John Brown Dillon,
                    tragic—perhaps even, in his later years, repulsive—figure, he was
                    Indiana's first great scholar of history (amateur or professional) and, after a century,
                    still occupies a position which is very high indeed.
            Dillon and the strange, lonely life he led were the subject of conjecture and discussion wherever he
                    was known in his own day—and precious little factual matter about his past ever rewarded
                    his contemporaries. No one seems ever really to have known John Dillon, as most men are known to
                    their fellows.
            Born in Wellsburg (then 
                        Virginia
                    , now West 
                        Virginia
                    ) in either 1807 or 1808, he had apparently received the rudiments of an education
                    before he was orphaned, at nine, and bound out to a printer to learn the trade. By his eighteenth
                    year he was in 
                        Cincinnati
                    —an awkard, fumbling, nearsighted, and pitifully ugly, young journeyman
                        printer.2
            
            It was in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , as an employee of the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Gazette that he was believed to have fallen in love and to have suffered the
                    tragedy which prompted the writing of his first known work. It was a poem, "The Burial of
                    the Beautiful," and it begins 
                        Where shall the dead, and the beautiful, sleep? In the vale where the willow and cypress
                            weep; Where the wind of the west breathes its softest sigh; Where the silvery stream is
                            flowing nigh, And the pure, clear drops of its rising sprays Glitter like gems in the bright
                            noon's rays— Where the sun's warm smile may never dispel
                            Night's tears o'er the form we loved so well— 
                        
                           1 [Charles A. Beard, who was born at 
                                        Knightstown
                                    , Indiana, on November 27, 1674, died at Grace Memorial Hospital,
                                            
                              New Haven, Connecticut
                           , on September 1,
                                    1948.—Editor.]
                        
                           2 [For a biographical sketch of Dillon see John Coburn,
                                    "Life and Services of John B. Dillon," and Horace P. Biddle,
                                    "Notes on John B. Dillon," in Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , Indiana, 1895-), II (1895), 39-62.—-Editor.
                     
                             In the vale where the sparkling waters flow; Where the
                            fairest, earliest violets grow; Where the sky and the earth are softly fair; Bury her
                            there—bury her there!3
                  
                    
            
            Those may not be great lines but that was a sentimental day and over-florid verse was flowing from
                    pens more experienced than young John Dillon's. The poem is certainly marked by the gentle,
                    hopeless melancholy which seemed, to his contemporaries, to have set the pattern of his character
                    and, in their tragic implication, to offer explanation enough for the lonely life he chose to lead
                    thereafter.
            Sometime before 1834, John Dillon came to 
                        Logansport
                    , Indiana, and read law with a local firm. He must have achieved learning in this
                    subject considerably beyond what was considered essential for the blossoming lawyer in those free
                    and easy days, for his writing on colonial and territorial jurisprudence and legislation in his book
                        Oddities of Colonial Legislation in America (
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana, 1879), is still highly regarded.
            No matter what his qualifications may have been, he did not practice at the bar. Instead he joined
                    with Stanislaus Lasselle in founding a weekly newspaper, The Canal Telegraph. One
                    may suppose that Dillon was editor and mechanical foreman, while the Lasselle family
                    purse—well-filled by the results of half a century of Indian trading and frontier
                    speculation—furnished capital.
            During the nine years following 1834—apparently in odd moments stolen from editorial
                    chores and the occasional type-sticking in which all pioneer editors often found themselves forced
                    to participate—John Dillon completed his first and greatest work. It was The
                        History of Indiana, From Its Earliest Exploration by Europeans, to the Close of Territorial
                        Government in 1816: with an Introduction Containing Historical Notes of the Discovery and
                        Settlement of the Territory of the 
                            United States
                         Northwest of the River 
                            Ohio
                        .… It was published in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1843, and was revised, extended, and republished in 1859.
            Being a newspaper man, Dillon might be said to have been a professional writer, but orphaned and
                    indentured at nine, a journeyman printer at seventeen, a lawyer and editor at twenty-four, he could,
                    by no stretch of the imagination, be 
                  
                     3 William T. Coggeshall, The Poets and Poetry of the
                            West (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , 1860), III.
               
                     called anything but an amateur historian. Yet in this first
                    book is to be found research as thorough, establishment of sources as satisfactory, and an
                    exposition as clear and logical as the first half of the nineteenth century saw in America.
            His work was undoubtedly forwarded by the almost monastic life he led. John Dillon had no close
                    friends and no attachments to bias his reporting when he interviewed survivors of the events he
                    described or examined their letters and records. He said "I have endeavored to keep my mind
                    free… either from ambitious contentions between distinguished men… false
                    traditions., national partialities and antipathies… or from dissensions among
                    uncharitable teachers of different creeds of religion; and thus to qualify myself, in some measure,
                    for the work of compiling and writing an impartial history…."4
            
            It was probably in this detachment that his chief virtue lay: John Dillon himself had no
                    "ambitious contentions"; the "distinction" of no man meant
                    anything to him; he had no "partiality," no "antipathy" and no
                    particular "creed of religion." It is fortunate that in addition to these rather
                    negative advantages, he also had the methodical repertorial attitude combined with a sense of the
                    important and the dramatic.
            Given such qualifications and being located (as he was in 
                        Logansport
                    ) near what had been the center of the most important activities of both the Old
                    Northwest and the Indiana territories, with many men still alive who had known the strenuous days
                    and were happy to talk of them, it should have been fairly easy for Dillon to produce a book of
                    pioneer reminiscence. How he then knew of, and how he managed to consult, the obscure published
                    sources and the official records which he used to make his book also a satisfying and
                    well-documented history of the Territory is a matter at which one may well marvel.
            In 1845, Dillon was appointed Indiana State Librarian. It was not a lucrative position but Dillon,
                    thinking of the reading and research which could be pursued among even such a modest collection of
                    books as the State Library offered— it was largely law and legislative
                    material—must have found the prospect irresistible.
            For eighteen years he continued in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , part of 
                  
                     4 John B. Dillon, A History of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1859), iv.
               
                     the time as State Librarian, and later in any other position
                    which would furnish the barest existence, always meticulous as to the carrying out of his duties but
                    always mainly interested in his reading and his notes.
            In 1863, he went to 
                        Washington
                     (possibly because he had, by then, read every book and examined every document of
                    interest in the Indiana capitol) and became a clerk in the Department of the Interior. He stayed
                    there until 1875, completed and published his Notes on Historical Evidence in Reference
                        to Adverse Theories of the Origin and Nature of the Government of the 
                            United States
                        
                and wrote much of his second most important work, The Oddities of
                        Colonial Legislation in America.
            
            The latter, although packed with material of very considerable importance, is little known and less
                    appreciated. It is not as well-organized as his first great work, perhaps because failing sight and
                    failing health prevented a final revision, perhaps because John Dillon's mind had become so
                    cluttered with the store of historical and legislative lore with which he had crammed it that he had
                    lost the power to select pertinent matter and to arrange it.
            In 1875, he returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to another of that series of drab bachelor rooms—always more notable for
                    their vast content of books, notes, and manuscripts than for either comfort or
                    cleanliness—in which his life had been spent. There he died on February 27, 1879, alone,
                    as he had lived, respected—even honored—by the more discerning of his
                    contemporaries but loved by no one.
            Perhaps his acquaintances were right, perhaps John Dillon's capacity to love and to be loved
                    had been buried in that "vale where the willow and cypress weep" near 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 1826.
            Before John B. Dillon, printer-turned-historian, in time (but not in significance) came John Law,
                    attorney and judge, with one good performance as a historian to his credit.
            John Law was an example of a type more common to neighboring 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     than to Indiana. A young man who, with an eastern university education and financial
                    support behind him, came west for the purpose of making a career in the new country.
            Law was born in New 
                  London, Connecticut
               , on October 28, 1796. He graduated from Yale in
                    1814, read law, and was admitted to practice in his home state in 1817. Thus  secured in a profession, he cast an eye to the west, where a new
                    country might be expected to welcome a young lawyer with a genuine college education, and where a
                    man could invest a little money in a very large estate, should he so desire. Very shortly he arrived
                    in 
                        Vincennes
                    , in the yearling state of Indiana.5
            
            Oliver H. Smith (who was not in the habit of exaggerating the virtues of his fellows) called John Law
                    " A noble specimen of our race—fine looking, urbane, kind, hospitable and
                    generous." Law attracted immediate and favorable attention and a few clients as well.
                    Shortly, he was elected prosecuting attorney (then, as now, the springboard from which a young
                    lawyer, could best take off on a legal career), and in 1823 he was elected to the state legislature,
                    which, in turn, elected him judge of the Seventh Judicial Circuit. He retired from the circuit bench
                    after only a year, however, to resume private practice.
            He had married Sarah Ewing, daughter of prosperous Nathanial, receiver of the local Government Land
                    Office. His law practice was profitable, he served as a receiver of public monies himself during the 
                        Van
                     Buren administration, he made wise investments in land (one of them a partnership in
                    seven hundred acres now occupied by a part of 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana) and eventually was appointed to the Federal Bench. All in all, Law's
                    early appraisal of the opportunities in Indiana was justified. He did quite well here.
            It was as an attorney at the bar that he enjoyed his greatest success—with the exception
                    of one single case, which he eventually won, although it was in court almost fifty years and both he
                    and his client were dead before it was decided in their favor.
            The client was Francois Vigo, 
                        Vincennes
                     capitalist of the Revolutionary War period, who had made the mistake of advancing
                    supplies to hard-pressed young General George Rogers Clark, then engaged in conquering the Old
                    Northwest for 
                        Virginia
                    . Clark had found it inexpedient to travel the two thousand miles to either the 
                        Virginia
                     legislature or the Continental Congress and, rather than see his men starved, had given
                    Vigo drafts not properly endorsed.
            
               
                  5 [For biographical sketches of Law see William Wesley Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches of Early Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1883), 332-334; Charles Denby, "Judge John Law," in
                        Indiana Historical Society Publications, I (1897), 201-213; and Christopher B.
                        Coleman, "John Law," in Dictionary of American Biography (20
                        vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1943), XI, 40-41.—Editor.]
            
            
            The federal government did not succeed in overcoming its scruples against such laxity until
                    1877—a little matter of a century!
            Justice was finally done, however, and after another sixty years or so the grateful nation provided
                    what may be a handsome statue of François Vigo seated in a rather strained position and
                    gazing toward the town in which he waited until his death to collect his due and was disappointed.
            Law's historical writing began with his Address Delivered Before the 
                            Vincennes
                         Historical and Antiquarian Society, February 22, 1839, of which he had two
                    thousand copies printed in pamphlet form in 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               . This
                    address on the early history of 
                        Vincennes
                    , eleven or twelve thousand words in length, antedated Dillon's book by four
                    years and seems to be the first effort at scholarly historical writing completed in the state.
            The work was widely circulated (Dillon himself mentions having used it) and in 1858 Law republished
                    it—with the addition of explanatory matter, much of which is of value— in
                    clothbound octavo under the title The Colonial History of 
                            Vincennes
                        , Under the French, British and American Governments.… It is
                    interesting to note that Law also beat Dillon into print with his revision, antedating
                    Dillon's, this time, by only a year, however.
            Law's address, and also the material he added for the revised edition, is well-organized,
                    well-documented, well-written, and also includes references to some remarkably obscure sources. An
                    amusing change is noticeable, however, between the literary style of attorney John Law, who wrote
                    the address in 1839, and that of the Honorable (Federal) Judge Law who amended it in 1858. The first
                    is plain and straight forward, the second is flowery and adorned with much Latin, considerable
                    French which was not very sound, and an occasional classical allusion. Federal Judge Law,
                    "urbane, kind… and benevolent" gentleman that he was, seems to have
                    felt the weight of his improved position in society.
            Third of the amateurs, and to me the most delightful, is schoolmaster-historian Sandford C. Cox. It,
                    must not be assumed that, in his schoolmastering, Cox endangered his amateur standing as a
                    historian. History was a furbelow not considered appropriate to the
                    reading-and-writing-and-arithmetic curriculum of the eighteen twenties to the eighteen fifties
                    period, and it is doubtful if either Cox or his pupils  ever
                    wasted a classroom hour on it. In my opinion, he is as virgin an amateur as either a printer or a
                    lawyer could possibly be.
            Sandford C. Cox appears upon his own biographical scene at 
                        Crawfordsville
                     in 1824, an observant lad of fourteen or so. He reports himself as having come by wagon
                    with his parents, brothers, and sisters from the Whitewater Valley by way of the Falls of 
                        Fall Creek
                     and the Strawtown— Thorntown Trace.
            Sandford's eye missed very little. He had seen four men awaiting hanging at the Falls for
                    what must have appeared to most of the populace to be merely the thoughtless misdemeanor of killing
                    a few Indians; he saw land speculators, in 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , sporting phenomenal watch chains and white beaver hats; he saw mud; overflowing
                    taverns; mud; recently retired Indian fighters; mud; hundreds of movers' wagons; mud, and
                    more mud.
            He must have had some education before he left the Whitewater—where schools were
                    comparatively plentiful due to the efforts of the Quakers—for within two years he himself
                    became a tender-aged schoolmaster and continued to follow that business in 
                  Montgomery, Fountain, Warren
               , and 
                        Tippecanoe
                     counties during most of his life.
            Unlike many of his contemporaries in the teaching profession—whose first interest was
                    tuition money and whose second was often the fiddle and sometimes the jug—Cox seems
                    always to have cherished literary ambitions. He wrote long and interesting accounts of the new
                    country to his friends (apparently going to the trouble of keeping copies of them), and by 1833
                    began to contribute verse to local newspapers. The contribution of verse to newspapers is a certain
                    indication of faithful and disinterested wooing of the muse. Newspaper editors did not pay for poems
                    then, anymore than they do today, and there was (and is) more likely to be discredit than glory for
                    the poet in the eyes of his neighbors.
            In the fall of 1859, most of the early settlers having been called on to fairer fields, it occurred
                    to Cox that his letters and notes on the pioneer day might make interesting reading for the public.
                    He had associated with leading men in the middle Wabash Valley, and his keen
                    interest in human frailties had prompted him to become acquainted also with those at the opposite
                    end of the social scale. Besides he had seen  the
                    "Indian Murderers" at the Falls with his own eyes and his grandfather, Richard
                    Rue, had told him the otherwise unrecorded story of the captivity of himself, Irvin Hinton, and
                    George Holman by Indians under the leadership of the notorious Simon Girty.
            Cox published his series of articles in the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Daily Courier and they aroused sufficient interest to encourage their author to
                    bring them out in book form.
            
               Recollections of the Early Settlement of the Wabash Valley
               
                    appeared in 1860. The book was good, and it is still good today—far better than either
                    Cox or his contemporaries probably suspected.
            Dillon's work is based upon elaborate and painstaking research, as, to a lesser extent, is
                    Law's. Cox had need to consult no archives, to read no books, to interview no pioneers, to
                    search no newspaper files. His sources were his own notes and letters, jotted down as the incidents
                    of which he wrote were occurring (except for grandfather Rue's yarn, of course) and all of
                    it done simply for the fun of the business.
            Dillon is venerated as the first to carry on really extensive historical research in the state and as
                    the author of historical works which still hold their own in scholarly authority. Law should be
                    honored for his priority of appearance in print as an Indiana historical writer. But for a view of
                    the Hoosiers as they looked and lived; of the Indiana scene in, as it were; full color; and for
                    genuine reading pleasure, Cox, the Black Creek Schoolmaster, is deserving of whatever special diadem
                    is awarded for such homely virtue.
            It is not likely that any of the three appreciated his own importance as a historian in his own
                    lifetime. Probably all three gentlemen—printer, lawyer, and schoolmaster—if
                    they happen to be gazing down from their heavenly home upon the Hoosier scene today, have first
                    raised their halos and scratched their brows in amazement then summoned all the little cherubim to
                    gather 'round and marvel at the sight of others listening to their simple stories so
                        patiently!6
            
            
               
                  6 Factual material in this article resulted from research in preparation
                        of the book, Indiana Authors and Their Books, Biographical Sketches and Title Listings of
                        Indiana Writers Whose First Publications Appeared Before the Centennial of the State in 1916,
                        which is to be published by 
                            Wabash
                         College and distributed free of charge to libraries in Indiana and throughout the
                        nation. The work has been completed under the direction of an editorial committee composed of J.
                        K. Lilly, Jr., Chairman, Howard H. Peckman, Harold F. Brigham, Ben Hitz, Lee McCanliss, and R.
                        E. Banta.
            
         
         
         
            Homestead Exemption in the Indiana Constitution of 1851
            
                    Lena London
                    ∗
                
            Security against want was a desideratum as prevalent in the nineteenth century as it is today, though
                    it was expressed in different phraseology. Today one asks "freedom from want" for
                    all. In the second third of the nineteenth century, however, every family dreamed of owning its own
                    home, which it could call the family homestead, and of having some guarantee that this home would
                    not be taken from it in times of economic distress. The possession of a homestead, it was felt,
                    would be the best guaranty of economic security.
            It was this desire to combat economic insecurity and to prevent the recurrence of the scenes
                    witnessed during the depression which followed the panic of 1837 when family after family was turned
                    off the land it had cleared or tilled for years, that gave birth to the idea of homestead exemption.
                    Following the example of 
                        Texas
                     in 1839, state after state east as well as west, north as well as south, enacted
                    homestead exemption laws. Not content with mere statutory exemption, no less than six states
                    followed 
                        Texas
                     in writing it into their constitutions. Between 1845 and 1860, 
                  Texas, Wisconsin,
                            California, Michigan
               , Indiana, 
                        Maryland
                    , and 
                        Minnesota
                     incorporated homestead exemption provisions into their constitutions.1
            
            The homestead exemption was a legal device that reserved the family abode, sometimes within certain
                    specific limits of acreage and monetary valuation and sometimes merely within the limits of a
                    "reasonable amount of property," from distraint for debt.
            
               
                  ∗ Lena 
                            London
                         is a graduate student at 
                            Columbia
                         University, 
                            New York City
                        . This article is an outgrowth of a larger work which Miss 
                            London
                         is preparing to submit as her Ph.D. dissertation under the direction of Professor
                        Henry Steele Commager.
               
                  1 Francis N. Thorpe (ed.), The Federal and State
                            Constitutions, Colonial Charters, and Other Organic Laws of the States, Territories and
                            Colonies now and heretofore forming the 
                                United States
                             of America (7 vols., 
                            Washington
                        , 1909), I, 404; II, 1075; III, 1726; IV, 1965-1966, 1993; VI, 3561-3562; VII, 4078;
                        Ben P. Poore (ed.), The Federal and State Constitutions, Colonial Charters, and
                            Other Organic Laws of the 
                                United States
                            
                   (2 vols., 
                            Washington
                        , 1878), I, 205, 513, 847, 1009-1010; 11, 1030, 1778, 2029; Charles Kettleborough
                        (ed.), Constitution Making in Indiana, in Indiana Historical Collections (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1916-), I, 414.
            
            
            Homestead exemptions were demanded by the land reformers, organized into the National Reform
                    Association, as a part of the agrarian doctrine of natural rights which its adherents hoped would
                    prove to be a universal panacea. They believed that man has a natural right to use the materials of
                    nature necessary to his existence. Hence, light, air, water, and soil are man's natural
                    material rights. Every natural right has three cardinal points—individuality,
                    inalienability, and equality. In the doctrine of the natural right to the soil, individuality was to
                    be secured by freedom of the public lands (i.e., ownership of part of the public domain to be
                    granted gratuitously to actual settlers), inalienability was to be obtained by homestead exemption,
                    and equality was to be attained by land limitation.2 On the frontier, however,
                    homestead exemptions were desired in order to encourage the settlement of the wilderness.
                    Everywhere, the debtor element of society sought to secure homestead exemptions in order to promote
                    their own interests. Then, too, homestead exemptions were regarded as promoting democracy by
                    fostering a spirit of security which helped preserve a feeling of freedom and independence so
                    essential to the continuance of democracy.
            In Indiana, homestead exemption was written into the new constitution of 1851 as a result of three
                    movements— the agitation for improving the lot of the debtor, the crusade for changes in
                    the public land policy, along with the steady trend towards humanitarian and democratizing reforms
                    characteristic of the temper of the times.
            The exemption from execution of a fixed amount of real, as well as personal, property was one of the
                    constitutional amendments proposed by individual citizens, the press, and public meetings prior to
                    the calling of the revision convention.3 Due to the popularity of this reform,
                    both major political parties supported the measure.
            
               
                  2 John R. Commons (ed.), Labor Movement, 1840-1860, in
                            The Documentary History of American Industrial Society (10 vols.,
                                
                     Cleveland, Ohio
                  , 1910), VII, 30-36, 289-307, 312-320, 331-340; Henry
                        E. Hoagland, "Humanitarianism (1840-1860)," in John R. Commons, et al., History of Labour in the 
                                United States
                            
                   (2 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1918), I, 522-527; Roy M. Robbins, Our Landed Heritage, The Public
                            Domain, 1776-1936 (
                     Princeton, New Jersey
                  , 1942),. 99; Helene S. Zahler,
                            Eastern Working-men and National Land Policy, 1829-1862, in 
                            Columbia
                         University Studies in the History of American Agriculture (
                            New York
                        , 1934-), VII (1941) 33-36, 68-69.
               
                  3 Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana, in
                        Indiana Historical Collections, I, lxiv-lxv.
            
            
            The Democrats had as their spokesman the chief executive of the state. Governor Paris C. Dunning,4 in his annual message to the last legislative session preceding the assembling
                    of the constitutional convention, said: 
                        Believing that the interest and welfare of our country demand greater security to the
                            families of a large and respectable portion of our unfortunate fellow-citizens, who are
                            often over-reached by the superior knowledge and cunning of their fellowmen, or become
                            embarrassed in their pecuniary affairs by the vicissitudes of trade, it is respectfully
                            recommended that such a change be made in our execution laws (to operate prospectively) as
                            will exempt from execution and sale, in favor of any resident defendant and his family, a
                            specific number of acres of land, or a specific amount in value; in all cases to include the
                            homestead, or so much thereof as it will embrace. The details of such a law are left to the
                            better judgment of the General Assembly. Should a law embracing this humane principle not
                            meet with favor at the present session of the General Assembly, I trust that before the next
                            assembling of the people's representatives, this principle will become a
                            constitutional provision, thereby placing it beyond the power of unfavorable legislative
                                action.5
                  
                    
            
            Not to be outdone by their opponents, on January 16, 1850, two days before the governor signed the
                    bill providing for submission to the people of the question of convoking a constituent assembly, the
                    Whig members of the legislature met in 
                        Indianapolis
                     with other eminent Whigs from various parts of the state and adopted a series of
                    resolutions listing the constitutional changes they deemed necessary. Prominent among the reforms
                    enumerated by these Whigs was the recommendation 
                        That the exemption of the homestead, or its equivalent in personal property, from forced
                            sale, for debts contracted after the adoption of the new Constitution, would be a measure of
                            policy and humanity— that it would be in consonance with our republican
                            institutions—that this Government owes protection to the wives and children of
                            its citizens, 
                        
                           4 For brief biographical sketches of Governor Dunning see
                                    Jacob P. Dunn, Indiana and Indianans (5 vols., 
                                        Chicago
                                    , 1919), I, 434; Indiana 1980 (Indianapolls, Indiana,
                                    n.d.), 22.
                        
                           5
                                    Journal of the House of Representatives, of the State of Indiana,
                                    1849, pp. 22-23; Report of the Debates and Proceedings of the
                                        Convention for the Revision of the Constitution of the State of Indiana,
                                    1850 (2 vols., 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , Indiana, 1850), I,.787. The legislature considered a bill containing
                                    this proposition outlined by the governor, but tabled the bill because the
                                    constituent assembly was to meet soon, and it was believed that the latter body
                                    would incorporate a homestead exemption clause into the new constitution. Report of the Debates and Proceedings o the Convention for the Revision
                                        of the Constitution of the State of Indiana, I, 721; Journal
                                        of the House of Representatives, of the State of Indiana, 18.49, pp.
                                    724-725.
                     
                             and that a home for innocence and infancy is demanded
                            alike by the impulses which operate upon the human heart, no less than by the teachings of
                            the Divine Law— that such a provision in our Constitution would tend to repress,
                            in this country, that fatal abuse so long existing in the systems of the old world,
                            overgrown land monopoly (the fruitful source of bloodshed and attempted
                            revolution)—that it would create a spirit of true independence in the political
                            action of the masses of the people, and prove the means, finally, of perpetuating the wise,
                            just, and glorious institutions of our beloved country. Adopting the language of Mr.
                            Jefferson, we declare, "Our national independence will never be complete till the
                            homestead of the citizen shall be secured against the misfortunes incident to human
                                life."6
                  
                    
            
            These excerpts indicated that the Democrats and the Whigs were interested in homestead exemptions as
                    a debtor issue.7 Yet the phraseology of the Whig suggestion, especially its
                    reference to "land monopoly," seemed to show the affect of the propaganda of the
                    land reformers.
            That the influence of the National Reform Association was felt in Indiana may also be gleaned from
                    the discussion in the constitutional convention of 1850-1851. The land reformers were referred to,
                    and the speeches of some of the delegates were worded in terminology that might have been uttered by
                    the land reformers themselves. A good illustration of their influence was the following extract from
                    the address delivered on November 25, 1850, by Judge James W. Borden, who from 1857 to 1863 held the
                    post of 
                        United States
                     Minister to the Sandwich Islands.8
                    
                        I insist that man is entitled to live and to enjoy a portion of the earth, and that to enable
                            him to do this, we should, under proper restrictions, prevent our public domain from being
                            monopolized, as is now being done to a considerable extent, by large land companies. I do
                            not propose to take from one man and give to another, but I desire that a limitation should
                            be placed upon the amount of property that a man can hold in the soil…. There is
                            a party in this country who are in favor of preserving the public lands, so as to put the
                            poorer portion of the present and the future generation, in some respects, on an equal
                            footing with the more wealthy portion.9
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  6
                        Report of the Debates and Proceedings of the Convention for the Revision of the
                            Constitution of the State, of Indiana, I, 787. Kettle-borough, Constitution Making in Indiana, in Indiana Historical Collections,
                        I, lxxix-lxxx, 210-212.
               
                  7 Of the 150 members of Indiana's constitutional convention, 95
                        were Democrats and 55 were Whigs. The convention met October 7, 1850 and adjourned February 10,
                        1851. Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana, in Indians Historical Collections, I, 221.
               
                  8
                        The National Cyclopaedia of American Biography (32 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1892-1945), XII (1904), 292-293.
               
                  9
                        Report of the Debates and Proceedings of the Convention for the Revision of the
                            Constitution of the State of Indiana, I, 755, 749-750.
            
            
            Furthermore, the affect of land reform propaganda was apparent in the allusions made by the Indiana
                    convention members to the precedents of ancient history, a favorite device employed by the land
                    reformers to show that the measures which they advocated should not be feared on the ground of
                    novelty as well as to prove that they had worked advantageously even in the ancient world. Judge
                    John Pettit, who had represented his state in the 
                        United States
                     House of Representatives and later on was to represent it in the United
                    'States Senate,10 praised the Mosaic law. He asserted that 
                        The Mosaic system… secured the rights of the individual to a freehold exemption in
                            a better manner than has been done by any nation before or since. The beneficient effects of
                            the Mosaic policy were more lasting than the policy of exemption adopted by any other.
                            country in the world…. So long as that policy was adhered to, so long no foreign
                            power was able to prevail against them. But when that policy was abandoned,…
                            their institutions crumbled and sank to naught.11
                  
                    James W. Borden, on the other hand, commended the agrarians of 
                        Rome
                     for attempting to eradicate the evil of land monopoly by limiting the amount of land of
                    the public domain that any individual might own. 
                        Had not the Gracchi been put to death… by the Patricians, for attempting to
                            execute the Licinian law,12 the nobility of 
                                Rome
                             would have been prevented from seizing upon the public lands, and appropriating
                                
                        
                           10
                                    Appletons' Cyclopaedia of American Biography (6 vols., 
                                        New York
                                    , 1888-1889), IV (1888), 748; Biographical Directory, of
                                        the American Congress, 1774-1927 (
                                        Washington
                                    , 1928), 1406; Dunn, Indiana and Indianans, I, 445,
                                    486, 490; The National Cyclopaedia of American Biography, IV
                                    (1893), 537; William Wesley Woollen, Biographical and Historical
                                        Sketches of Early Indiana (
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , Indiana, 1883), 455.
                        
                           11
                                    Report of the Debates and Proceedings of the Convention for the
                                        Revision of the Constitution of the State of Indiana, I, 764-765. Under the
                                    Jewish Mosaic law, land could not be alienated forever. But if an Israelite debtor
                                    pledged or sold his property to meet some financial obligation, it had to be
                                    returned to him at the time of the jubilee which came every fiftieth year.
                                    "Leviticus," XV, 10-11, 23-28, The Holy Bible,
                                        Containing the Old and New Testaments… by His Majesty's
                                        Special Command. A.D. 1611 (
                                        London
                                    , n.d.), 151.
                        
                           12 The Licinian law of 367 B.C., achieved primarily through
                                    the efforts of the tribune Calvus Lucius Stolo, limited the amount of arable land of
                                    the public domain that any individual might hold to five hundred jugera (about three
                                    hundred to three hundred and fifty acres). Tenney Frank, 
                              
                                            Rome
                                         and 
                                            Italy
                                         of the Republic, in Tenney Frank (ed.), An
                                        Economic Survey of Ancient 
                                            Rome
                                        
                            (5 vols., 
                              Baltimore, Maryland
                           , 1933-1940), I, 26-28; M. Rostovzeff, A
                                        History, of the Ancient World, translated by J. D. Duff (2 vols., 
                                        Oxford
                                    , 1926-1927), 11, 33, 47, 105-115; Shosuke Sato, "History of
                                    the Land Question in the 
                                        United States
                                    ," in Johns Hopkins University Studies in
                                        Historical and Political Science (
                                        Baltimore
                                    , Marylayd, 1883;), IV (1886), 268-270; Albert A. Trever, History of Ancient Civilization (2 vols., 
                                        New York
                                    , 1936-1939), 11, 72-73, 158-170.
                     
                             them to their own use and 
                                Rome
                             would have remained forever a republic. The moment that the people were denied
                            their share of the public lands, they were compelled to congregate in the towns and cities
                            of that republic, where they could only obtain a scanty subsistence, and under the peculiar
                            laws of that country, which reduced men to slavery, where they were unable to pay their
                            debts, many of them became bondsmen for life….
                        Sir, it was the combined evils of land monopoly and slavery, that overturned the republic of 
                                Rome
                            . And let me here say, that, while we may never expect that in the free States
                            of this Union, slavery will ever be directly tolerated; yet, sir, unless we shall restrict
                            capital within proper limits, and prevent its having too much the advantage over the labor
                            of the country, the time may come when the lands of this country may be monopolized to a
                            much greater extent than we could now anticipate, and a state of things will be brought
                            about not dissimilar to that which existed in 
                                Rome
                            , in the days of the Gracchi.13
                  
                    
            
            Significant, too, was the fact that the foes of the proposed exemption section also turned to the
                    pages of ancient history to refute the arguments of the adversaries. Alvin P. Hovey, who in 1854 was
                    the youngest man ever appointed to Indiana's highest tribunal, who was elected to
                    Indiana's highest executive office in 1889, and who from 1865 to 1870 represented the 
                        United States
                     as Minister to Peru,14 quoted a passage from the orations of Marcus
                    Tullius Cicero in which Cicero denounced the agrarians, maintaining that the laws they sought would
                    "plainly undermine the two principal pillars and supports of the
                    government. In the first place, concord and unity amongst the citizens; which can never be kept
                        while some are deprived of what is justly their due, and others discharged from the
                        necessity of payment. Secondly, justice; which immediately must sink into ruin and nothing
                    if men cannot be secured in the possession of what is their own…."15 Hovey further declared that the aims 
                  
                     13
                            Report of the Debates and Proceedings of the Convention for the Revision of the
                                Constitution of the State of Indiana, I, 755.
                  
                     14
                            Appletons' Cyclopaedia of American Biography, I, 276; Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 1774-1927, p. 1118; Pictorial and Biographical Memoirs of 
                                    Elkhart
                                 and 
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Counties, Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1893), 498-499; William H. Smith, The History of the State of
                                Indiana, (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1897), I, 499-503; William W. Sweet,
                            "Alvin Peterson Hovey," in Dictionary of American
                                Biographical (20 vols., New. York, 1943), IX, 270-271; The National
                                Cyclopaedia of American Biography, XIII (1906), 274-275; Charles M. Walker, Lives of General Alvin P. Hovey and Ira J. Chase (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1888). It was at one time rumored by his foes that the eccentric,
                            strong-willed Hovey regarded himself as the reincarnation of Napoleon and that on the
                            anniversary of the latter's death he would retire for solitary meditation. Dunn,
                                Indiana and Indianans, I, 481-482.
                  
                     15
                            Report of the Debates and Proceedings of the Convention for the Revision of the
                                Constitution of th State of Indiana, I, 773-774.
               
                     and the language of the agrarians of ancient 
                        Rome
                     and of modern America were the same. 
                        The arguments of Cassius of Stolo and the Gracchi are resounding through 
                                England
                            , America, and 
                                France
                            . Give us homes and an equal division of property, cry the agrarians of 
                                England
                            . Down with the rich, and an equal division of the stealings, scream the wild,
                            infuriated "sans culotte" of 
                                France
                            . Permit us to use other men's property as our own under the sanction
                            of law, is the more gracious language of the followers of those great Romans with us. Yes,
                            sir, hide it as you will, disguise it as you may, the Homestead and the Licinian law have
                            been woven in the same loom and are both of the same texture—the web other
                            men's property, the woof the prejudices of the poor against the rich. The Licinian
                            law took the property of one class and divided amongst another. The amendments proposed here
                            would have the same practical effect as they would permit one class, under the guise of
                            contract, to obtain the property of another, and then keep that property under the sanction
                            of the law.16
                  
                    
            
            Moreover, the insertion into the bill of rights of the exemption clause adopted by the Indiana
                    convention, a verbatim copy of the 
                        Wisconsin
                     provision, disclosed the influence of the land reform doctrine that every one had a
                    natural and inalienable right to a plot of land and a home built thereon.17
            
            But the work of the National Reform Association was only one of the factors causing the adoption of
                    homestead exemption in Indiana. Another reason why the property exemption article was agreed to by
                    the Indiana convention was the endeavor to solve the debtor problem.
            The homestead exemption provision had as its goal the "humane object" of helping
                    the honest but impoverished debtor by preserving a home to his wife and children and by ensuring to
                    him the means whereby he might, through energy and industry, regain his financial solvency, declared
                    the members of the constituent assembly. Its connection with the debtor question was also
                    demonstrated by its position in the constitution for it was placed in the same section as, though
                    just before, the clause abolishing imprisonment for debt. And, indeed, the exemption article itself
                    asserted that its purpose was to recognize "the privilege of the debtor to enjoy the
                    necessary comforts of life."18
            
            
               
                  16
                        Ibid., 751.
               
                  17
                        Ibid., II, 2067; Kettleborough, Constitution Making in
                        Indiana, in Indiana Historical Collections, I, 300; Poore, The Federal and State Constitutions, I, 513; II, 2029; Thorpe, The
                            Federal and State Constitutions, II, 1075; VII, 4078.
               
                  18 Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana, in
                        Indiana Historical Collections,
            
            
            The exponents of exemption believed the measure was as wise as it was humanitarian, in conformity
                    with the enlightenment of the age and the spirit of democratic institutions. It was essential to
                    protect the poor because they were the most numerous class in society, because "it is the
                    poor, principally, who labor, and labor only produces wealth," and because the poor were
                    "our main reliance, our main support, both in Peace and in War" adding to the
                    country's wealth in peacetime through their labor and furnishing in wartime the armies to
                    defend the nation. The supporters of property exemption also thought that it would promote
                    prosperity and patriotism and would secure greater obedience to law and a larger degree of
                        democracy.19
            
            The opponents of this constitutional measure, however, regarded it as "unethical,"
                    as "legal swindling," as a creator of idleness and denied that it would foster
                    either prosperity or patriotism. "I hold that property makes a man no more virtuous or
                    patriotic than he is without it," said the lawyer, Samuel Pepper, who was at one time
                    attorney for 
                        Crawford County
                    .20 It would not be "conducive to public morals to place
                    that class comparatively above want by giving them homesteads—homesteads purchased with
                    the funds of other men," asserted Alvin P. Hovey. He also maintained that the proposed
                    exemption would legalize fraud. He illustrated this contention with the case of two friends, one of
                    whom had five hundred dollars in cash and the other had nothing. The penniless person would borrow
                    the five hundred dollars from his friend and would buy a homestead with it. When his friend needed
                    the money and asked him to return it, the friend would be informed of the manner in which it had
                    been invested and would be told that the money could not be regained because of the homestead
                    exemption principle. The exemption, Hovey insisted, would close credit to the poor. Moreover, argued
                    Hovey, the exemption would breed laziness for what incentive would a man deeply indebted have
                    "to acquire anything above his mere homestead? None! 
                  I, 300; Poore, The Federal and State Constitutions, I, 513; Thorpe, The Federal and State Constitutions, II, 1075; Report of the
                                Debates and Proceedings of the Convention for the Revision of the Constitution of the
                                State of Indiana, I, 719, 750, 756.
                  
                     19
                            Report of the Debates and Proceedings o the Convention for the Revision of the
                                Constitution of the State of Indiana, I, 718-719, 721, 749.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., 788. See also Hazen H. Pleasant, A History of 
                                    Crawford County
                                , Indiana (
                                Greenfield
                            , Indiana, 1926), 7, 140.
               
                     He will settle down and refuse to exercise either body or mind
                    for the acquisition of property." Hovey added that there was a "distinction
                    between the truth of abstract principles and the property of
                    carrying such principles into practice." He confessed to the correctness of the abstract
                    principle that all men were created free and equal, but denied that any inference could be drawn
                    from that entitling Negroes to the same privileges and immunities as whites or admitting women to
                    the same political rights enjoyed by men since expediency condemned such a course of action.
                    Similarly, 
                        God gave the earth to man for his inheritance, and therefore every man is entitled to enjoy
                            it. Now that abstraction is true, and man does enjoy it; but the argument that they attempt
                            to deduce from that fact, that all men should be entitled to homesteads is to my mind
                            anything but clear.
                        God gave no man a right to any particular spot, but an undivided interest in the whole.21
                  
                    
            
            These views were refuted by the adherents of homestead exemption who claimed it would result in a
                    greater obedience to law by delivering the debtor from the dire distress that caused him to resort
                    to fraud and led him to crime. They denied that the exemption provision would inspire men to the
                    recourse of subterfuge to avoid paying debts. They pointed out that the belief that fear of the
                    stringent collection laws and of prison made men pay their debts was false since thousands of
                    dollars were repaid without the aid of the law while comparatively few debts were collected by the
                    coercion of the law. On the contrary, they felt that a constitutional exemption clause would
                    encourage honesty and morality for "it would place the debtor above the dire necessity, which tempts man to misdemeanors."22 In the
                    opinion of Schuyler Colfax, who later became the first newspaper editor to be elected Speaker of the 
                        United States
                     House of Representatives and then during Ulysses S. Grant's first
                    administration became Vice-president of the 
                        United States
                    ,23
                    
                  
                     21
                            Report of the Debates and Proceedings of the Convention for the Revision of the
                                Constitution of the State of Indiana, I, 751-753.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., 719.
                  
                     23 In the last years of his life, Colfax's career as a
                            politician was ended abruptly as a result of his being implicated in the Crédit
                            Mobilier scandal even though a Congressional committee in 1873 exonerated him from charges
                            of corruption. Appletons' Cyclopaedia of American Biography, I,
                            687-688; Biographical Directory of the American Congress,
                  
               
                    
                    
                        it will also tend to elevate character. The poor man will know that his credit will depend on
                            his honesty and promptitude more than on his property, and he will strive to build up and
                            maintain a reputation that will be thus valuable to him. It will also avoid the necessity
                            which, in the minds of so many, under the present law, drives them to smuggling their
                            property into some friend's hands, or making a conveyance of their home, which is
                            tainted with fraud, rather than see their little all swept away by some merciless creditor,
                            and their family turned out upon the world, with no roof to shelter them from the storms of
                            adversity….
                        It will be an incentive to industry, a sweetener of toil.24
                  
                    
            
            The proponements of property exemption declared that it would foster prosperity by facilitating the
                    obtaining of credit by the poor, by stimulating immigration into the state, and by destroying land
                    monopoly and increasing the number of small freeholders.25 They reminded the
                    convention that the argument that credit would be closed to the poor had been raised when the
                    movement to abolish imprisonment for debt was started and the success of that reform proved the
                    fallacy of that viewpoint. They were positive that homestead exemption would make it easier for the
                    poor to get credit as it would increase the ability of the debtor to pay and would give greater
                    security to the creditor. Moreover, they proclaimed that the lack of homestead exemption law had
                    hitherto repressed immigration into Indiana. Foreign emigrants coming to the west settled in states
                    having liberal homestead exemption laws. The immigrant knows, said Colfax, "that if he
                    casts his lot with us, the humble home he may purchase for his family may be swept away from them,
                    if an acclimating sickness or any other temporary misfortune may happen to them. He knows and sees
                    that Indiana protects barely a small pittance of personal property, 
                  
                     1774-1927, p. 834; Dunn, Indiana and Indianans, I,
                            565, 645; IV, 1580; Ovando J. Hollister, Life of Schuyler Colfaz (
                                New York
                            , 1886); William McDonald, "Schuyler Colfax," Dictionary, of American Biography, IV, 297-298; A. Y. Moore, The Life
                                of Schuyler Colfax (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1868); Smith, Th History of the State of Indiana, II,
                            805-806; James Sutherland, Biographical Sketches of the Members of the
                                Forty-first General Assembly of the State of Indiana, and That of the State Officers and
                                Judiciary (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1861), 195-199; The National Cyclopaedia of American
                                Biography, IV, 12-13.
                  
                     24
                            Report of the Debates and Proceedings of. the Convention for the Revision of
                                the Constitution of the State of Indiana, I, 749.
                  
                     25 To this the foes of exemption replied that it was not possible to
                            have a landed aristocracy in the 
                                United States
                             because of our law of descent distributing the property of the deceased equally
                            among all his children, both male and female. Ibid., 753.
               
                     but not a dollar's worth of that which he has
                    journeyed for, thousands of miles—a home."
            The promoters of homestead exemption were certain that their proposition would, in the words of
                    Colfax, 
                        tend to increase the number of landholders in every community and consequently, the
                            prosperity of the State. In military and feudal ages… great States might exist
                            while THE FEW owned the lands and THE MANY were serfs or tenants. But in this age, for men
                            to be contented and happy, and States to be prosperous, families must have homes, secured to
                            them inviolably…. Thus increasing the number of landholders, you infuse into them
                            a deeper, stronger interest in the social progress of the neighborhood, in the peace, the
                            morals, and the welfare of the community, in the advancement and prosperity of the State.26
                  
                    
            
            Furthermore, those who favored property exemption felt it would help safeguard democracy by
                    instilling in the poor a spirit of independence and by preventing creditors from exerting an undue
                    influence upon their debtors at election time. James Dick told his colleagues: "It is our
                    duty as freemen, in order to sustain our liberties and to continue them, to guard against the
                    influences of wealth over the necessities of the poor, and through this conservative system, sir, to
                    preserve uncorrupt and inicorruptible [sic] the purity of the ballot
                        box."27
            
            The advocates of homestead exemption also argued that it would promote patriotism, for a home
                    inalienably secured by law would make a man feel a deeper interest in his country's safety
                    and welfare. John B. Niles asserted: "Those will love their country who love their homes.
                    Protect them in their homes and they shall defend their country, her laws and
                        institutions."28 A similar sentiment was expressed by Elias Murray,
                    who maintained that 
                        an interest in the soil insures the devotion of the citizen to his government, and diffuses
                            the greatest sum of prosperity.
                        A man having a home to defend, could scarcely be found to be recreant to his duty.,. Every
                            citizen would be a soldier, and every soldier brave. This measure, then, will not only
                            strengthen the government, and give dignity and comfort to her citizens, but it will insure
                            industry, abate poverty and pauperism, and redeem vast multitudes from want and
                                wretchedness.29
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  26
                        Ibid., 719-720, 747-749, 770-771.
               
                  27
                        Ibid., 719, 721, 767.
               
                  28
                        Ibid., 771.
               
                  29
                        Ibid., 720.
            
            
            John B. Howe, former educator, lawyer, legislator and future banker and author, voiced the view that
                    there was "a practical argument stronger and better than any other that can be made in
                    favor of homestead exemption—it is the argument of experience." To support this
                    statement, it was shown that the principle of property exemption in the form of chattel exemptions
                    had been embodied in the laws of Indiana for the past twenty-five years, and the amount of personal
                    property reserved from distraint by these statutes had been increased steadily from fifty to one
                    hundred and twenty-five dollars.30 The example of the personal and real estates
                    freed from levy for debts by the legislation and constitutional provisions of other states were also
                    cited. Howe quoted the following article from the National Intelligencer to
                    further prove his point. 
                        AN UNUSUAL SIGHT.—We yesterday saw in one of the Harris-burg papers a notice of an
                            intended application for the benefit of the insolvent laws. A few years ago, preceding every
                            term of an "Insolvent Court," long columns of names were paraded in the
                            newspapers of intended applications for the benefit of the law. We now rarely hear of such
                            an application, and we venture the assertion that not half so much money is
                                best from bad debts as was lost before the law exempting from execution three hundred
                                dollars worth of property was passed. The hundreds of thousands of dollars formerly
                            spent in legally collecting small debts are now saved to the poor, who had the tax to 
                        
                           30
                                    Ibid., 766. The members of the Indiana convention unanimously
                                    concurred in and published an address to the people of the state summarizing the
                                    most important amendments made to the old constitution and explaining where they
                                    deemed it necessary, the reasons for these proposed changes. Of the exemption
                                    section, they said: The Principles of exempting a reasonable amount of the property
                                    of the debtor from seizure or sale, is asserted, but without specifying any amount.
                                    There is no provision of this kind in the old Constitution; though the present law,
                                    usually called the 'hundred and twenty-five dollar law', is based
                                    upon the principle thus proposed to be ermanently established." Ibid., II, 2042; Kettleborough, Constitution Making
                                        in Indiana, in Indiana Historical Collections, I, 222,
                                    404-405. In 1833, the first school in Lima Township was taught by John B. Howe,
                                    whose admission to the bar the next year made him the earliest resident lawyer of 
                                        LaGrange County
                                    . In 1840-1841, Howe served in the Indiana House of Representatives.
                                    Howe also established the pioneer bank of 
                                        LaGrange County
                                     in 1854 in conjunction with Samuel P. Williams. Howe remained a banker
                                    the rest of his life. During his last five years, he published four books on
                                    political economy and finance. The year after he died, in 1884, the Howe School for
                                    boys was founded from his bequest. Then, in 1909, the name of the village of Lima
                                    was changed to Howe in honor of his memory. Appletons'
                                        Cyclopaedia of American Biography, III (1888), 281; Ira Ford, et al., History of Northeast Indiana: LaGvange, 
                                            Steuben
                                        , Noble and 
                                            DeKalb
                                         Counties (2 vols., 
                                        Chicago
                                    , 1920), I, 39, 42-44, 54, 59-60, 69-70, 90, 122, 150; II, 448.
                     
                             bear. They are, therefore, to the extent of this
                            saving, the better able to buy for cash.31
                  
                    
            
            Consequently, the desire to assist the debtor, to promote patriotism and prosperity, to foster
                    democracy and good government, and to lessen crime, as well as the effective propaganda of the land
                    reformers and the lessons of the experience of the other states, led the members of
                    Indiana's convention to engraft an exemption clause into the revised constitution. Since,
                    however, they believed that a constitution should embrace fundamental principles solely and not
                    legislative minutiae, since they held divergent views as to the actual amount of a person's
                    estate that should then be reserved from distraint, and since they felt that the value of property
                    was uncertain and variable necessitating a different amount of exemption at different times so that
                    an exact sum should not be immutably fixed,32 therefore, they incorporated into
                    the new fundamental law only the doctrine that a reasonable portion of property, without specifying
                    the kind of property —whether real of personal, be exempt from execution by statute, and
                    left the details to the legislature.33
            
            Thus homestead exemption was adopted in Indiana in order to preserve the stability and integrity of
                    the family; to prevent insolvent debtors and their families from becoming burdensome charges upon
                    society; to protect the community from crime by guarding against debtors becoming paupers and
                    turning to felony from desperation; to foster democracy by increasing the obedience to, and respect
                    for, law through the elimination of fraud and crime as well as by freeing the debtor from the
                    possible domineering influence of the creditor at the ballot box; to give the poor a feeling of
                    security in order to preserve their spirit of independence so vital to the existence of democracy;
                    to stimulate the more speedy settlement of the frontier so as to aid not only the 
                  
                     31
                            Report of the Debates and Proceedings of the Convention for the Revision of the
                                Constitution of the State of Indiana, I, 765-766; see also, 748, 754, 756, 763,
                            783, 804.
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., 718-719, 721, 736-737, 747, 754, 758-759, 762-764, 772, 776-782.
                  
                     33 "The privilege of the debtor to enjoy the necessary
                            comforts of life shall be recognized by wholesome laws, exempting a reasonable amount of
                            property from seizure or sale, for the payment of any debt or liability hereafter
                            contracted," read the Indiana Constitution of 1851. Poore, The Federal
                                and State Constitutions, I, 513; Thorpe, The Federal and State
                                Constitutions, II, 1075; Kettleborough, Constitution Making in
                            Indiana, in Indiana Historical Collections, I, 300.
               
                     people of the west but also the workingmen in the east; and to
                    promote patriotism by giving the poor a keener interest in the welfare of their community and
                    government through the possession of a plot of land that could not be alienated because of financial
                    reverses.
         
         
         
            Documents: The Inhabitants of Center Township, 
                        Lake County
                    , Indiana, According to the Federal Census of 1850
            
                    Edited by Elfrieda Lang
                    ∗
                
            
               
                        Lake County
                     in the extreme northwestern section of Indiana followed a somewhat different pattern in
                    its development from that of 
                        Posey County
                     in the extreme southwestern part of the state. The former county has become one of the
                    great steel centers of the world, while the latter county has remained an agricultural county. In
                    1850, however, the interest in both counties centered in the soil.
            Although the boundary lines of 
                        Lake County
                     were not defined until February 16, 1839,1 the first settlers
                    arrived in 1833.2 These early immigrants and those that followed began to till
                    the soil. Among those who came to this county were people from the Middle Atlantic, New 
                        England
                    , and Southern states, as well as from foreign countries, and an even larger number from
                    the North Central states. This migration in the seventeen years from 1833 to 1850 created a
                    population of 3,991 by the latter date.
            An analysis of the population of the county as well as the names and census statistics of the people
                    of Center Township are of general interest because of the information it yields about the nativity,
                    age, wealth, occupation, and education of the people who settled there.3
            
            The statistics of the county indicate that the largest percentage of the population,
                    45.10%, was composed of natives of the North Central states. Of this total,
                    28.74% of the inhabitants were from Indiana, 12.78% from 
                        Ohio
                    , and 3.58% from 
                  Illinois,
                            Michigan, Missouri
               , and 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Moreover, it is interesting to note that the oldest people from the above-mentioned
                    states were John Butler, a farmer living in North Township, and Christian Evans of Cedar Creek 
                  
                     ∗ Elfrieda Lang is assistant editor of the Indiana Magazine of History, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1
                            Laws of the State of Indiana, General, 1839, p. 70.
                  
                     2 T. H. Ball, 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                , Indiana, from 1834 to 1872 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1873), 20.
                  
                     3 Original Returns of the Seventh Census of the 
                                United States
                            , 1850, 
                                Lake County
                            , Indiana (microfilm in the Indiana University Library, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana).
               
                     Township, each of whom was only forty-five years of age. They
                    were both natives of 
                        Ohio
                    . The oldest native of Indiana was Margaret White, the wife of Samuel White, a farmer
                    from 
                        Tennessee
                    . Mrs. White was thirty-five years of age and a resident of Eagle Creek Township.
            A further analysis of the composition of the population shows that the Middle Atlantic states ranked
                    second with 24.05%. Of this total, 16.04% were natives of 
                        New York
                    , which ranked next to Indiana; 6.64% natives of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ; 
                  TABLE I Nativity of Population of 
                                Lake County
                            , Indiana, According to Townships, 1850 By number and Percentage of total
                            population
                  
                     
                     Cedar Creek
                     Center
                     Eagle Creek
                     Hobert
                     North
                     Ross
                     St. Johns
                     West Creek
                     Winfield
                     Total
                  
                  
                     States
                     No.
                     %
                     No.
                     %
                     No.
                     %
                     No.
                     %
                     No.
                     %
                     No.
                     %
                     No.
                     %
                     No.
                     %
                     No.
                     %
                     No.
                     %
                  
                  
                     New England
                     33
                     6.59
                     59
                     6.12
                     18
                     5.71
                     15
                     6.25
                     8
                     8.25
                     76
                     10.17
                     12
                     2.56
                     22
                     5.35
                     13
                     5.31
                     256
                     6.42
                  
                  
                     Conn.
                     18
                     
                     15
                     
                     1
                     
                     3
                     
                     0
                     
                     10
                     
                     2
                     
                     7
                     
                     7
                     
                     63
                     
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Maine
                                
                            
                     7
                     
                     2
                     
                     5
                     
                     0
                     
                     2
                     
                     3
                     
                     2
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     21
                     
                  
                  
                     Mass.
                     0
                     
                     19
                     
                     2
                     
                     3
                     
                     3
                     
                     11
                     
                     2
                     
                     5
                     
                     2
                     
                     47
                     
                  
                  
                     N.H.
                     2
                     
                     3
                     
                     2
                     
                     3
                     
                     0
                     
                     11
                     
                     0
                     
                     3
                     
                     1
                     
                     25
                     
                  
                  
                     R.I.
                     2
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     1
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     3
                     
                     6
                     
                  
                  
                     Vt.
                     4
                     
                     20
                     
                     8
                     
                     6
                     
                     2
                     
                     41
                     
                     6
                     
                     7
                     
                     0
                     
                     94
                     
                  
                  
                     Middle Atlantic
                     145
                     28.94
                     218
                     22.57
                     97
                     30.80
                     35
                     14.59
                     26
                     16.80
                     215
                     25.78
                     28
                     5.97
                     114
                     27.74
                     82
                     33.47
                     960
                     24.05
                  
                  
                     N.J.
                     8
                     
                     13
                     
                     6
                     
                     1
                     
                     0
                     
                     5
                     
                     5
                     
                     5
                     
                     2
                     
                     45
                     
                  
                  
                     NY.
                     106
                     
                     170
                     
                     57
                     
                     27
                     
                     21
                     
                     135
                     
                     20
                     
                     80
                     
                     34
                     
                     650
                     
                  
                  
                     Penn.
                     31
                     
                     35
                     
                     34
                     
                     7
                     
                     5
                     
                     75
                     
                     3
                     
                     29
                     
                     46
                     
                     265
                     
                  
                  
                     North Central
                     284
                     56.69
                     395
                     40.89
                     172
                     54.60
                     172
                     50.83
                     46
                     47.42
                     275
                     36.81
                     166
                     35.39
                     236
                     57.42
                     104
                     42.45
                     1800
                     45.10
                  
                  
                     Ind.
                     183
                     
                     289
                     
                     97
                     
                     63
                     
                     19
                     
                     181
                     
                     138
                     
                     129
                     
                     48
                     
                     1147
                     
                  
                  
                     Ill.
                     4
                     
                     14
                     
                     1
                     
                     6
                     
                     7
                     
                     5
                     
                     12
                     
                     14
                     
                     0
                     
                     63
                     
                  
                  
                     Mich
                     2
                     
                     22
                     
                     3
                     
                     6
                     
                     1
                     
                     24
                     
                     0
                     
                     13
                     
                     1
                     
                     72
                     
                  
                  
                     Mo.
                     1
                     
                     3
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     4
                     
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Ohio
                                
                            
                     94
                     
                     67
                     
                     71
                     
                     47
                     
                     19
                     
                     63
                     
                     16
                     
                     80
                     
                     53
                     
                     510
                     
                  
                  
                     Wls.
                     0
                     
                     o
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     2
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     2
                     
                     4
                     
                  
                  
                     Southern
                     12
                     2.39
                     11
                     1.13
                     16
                     5.08
                     9
                     3.75
                     1
                     1.03
                     18
                     2.41
                     1
                     .21
                     9
                     2.19
                     4
                     1.63
                     81
                     2.03
                  
                  
                     Ga.
                     0
                     
                     2
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     2
                     
                  
                  
                     Ky.
                     1
                     
                     2
                     
                     5
                     
                     1
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     1
                     
                     1
                     
                     11
                     
                  
                  
                     Md.
                     4
                     
                     1
                     
                     0
                     
                     1
                     
                     0
                     
                     5
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     11
                     
                  
                  
                     Miss.
                     0
                     
                     1
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     1
                     
                  
                  
                     N.C.
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     1
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     3
                     
                     0
                     
                     2
                     
                     0
                     
                     6
                     
                  
                  
                     S.C.
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     1
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     1
                     
                  
                  
                     Tenn.
                     2
                     
                     0
                     
                     4
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     1
                     
                     1
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     8
                     
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Texas
                                
                            
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     1
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     1
                     
                  
                  
                     Va.
                     5
                     
                     5
                     
                     5
                     
                     7
                     
                     1
                     
                     8
                     
                     0
                     
                     6
                     
                     3
                     
                     40
                     
                  
                  
                     Foreign
                     23
                     4.59
                     279
                     28.98
                     10
                     3.17
                     54
                     22.50
                     16
                     16.50
                     151
                     20.22
                     260
                     55.44
                     27
                     6.57
                     42
                     17.14
                     862
                     21.60
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Canada
                                
                            
                     2
                     
                     45
                     
                     5
                     
                     19
                     
                     6
                     
                     53
                     
                     3
                     
                     8
                     
                     30
                     
                     171
                     
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    England
                                
                            
                     2
                     
                     13
                     
                     3
                     
                     8
                     
                     0
                     
                     25
                     
                     1
                     
                     8
                     
                     0
                     
                     60
                     
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    France
                                
                            
                     0
                     
                     5
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     5
                     
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Germany
                                
                            
                     3
                     
                     199
                     
                     2
                     
                     25
                     
                     9
                     
                     63
                     
                     247
                     
                     9
                     
                     3
                     
                     560
                     
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Ireland
                                
                            
                     14
                     
                     15
                     
                     0
                     
                     2
                     
                     1
                     
                     9
                     
                     9
                     
                     1
                     
                     9
                     
                     60
                     
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Nova Scotia
                                
                            
                     2
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     1
                     
                     0
                     
                     3
                     
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Scotland
                                
                            
                     0
                     
                     2
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     1
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     0
                     
                     3
                     
                  
                  
                     Unknown
                     4
                     .80
                     4
                     .31
                     2
                     .64
                     5
                     2.08
                     0
                     
                     12
                     1.61
                     2
                     .43
                     3
                     .73
                     0
                     
                     32
                     .80
                  
                  
                     Total
                     501
                     
                     966
                     
                     315
                     
                     240
                     
                     97
                     
                     747
                     
                     469
                     
                     411
                     
                     245
                     
                     3991
                     
                  
               
                     and 1.3'7% natives of 
                        New Jersey
                    . The oldest person from these states was Susanna Dinwiddie, who was ninety years of age
                    and who had emigrated from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     to reside in Eagle Creek Township.
            Next to the Middle Atlantic states, the foreign-born made the largest contribution,
                    21.60%. Of the seven foreign countries represented, the Germans took the lead with
                    14.03%, which gave them third place in the distribution of the population for the county.
                    St. Johns Township proved  the most popular for the latter group
                    as is evidenced by the fact that 62.67% of the total population of that township came
                    from 
                        Germany
                    . The oldest inhabitant of the county, Eve Casper, was ninety-six years of age. She was
                    a native of 
                        Germany
                     who had settled in Center Township.
            While more than one-fifth of the people came from foreign countries, the New 
                        England
                     and Southern states together contributed less than nine per cent to the population of
                    the county. The New Englanders constituted 6.42% of the total population, the Southerners
                    only 2.03%.
            Although some states were represented by a comparatively small number of people, the fact cannot be
                    overlooked that in 1850 natives from twenty-four states and seven foreign countries were living in 
                        Lake County
                    . (See Table I.) The number of states is significant since there were only thirty-one in
                    that year.
            
               TABLE II Real Estate Valuation of Lake Country, Indiana, According to Townships, 1850
               Value of Property held by natives of the state and countries Indicated
               
                  States
                  Cedar Creek
                  Center
                  Eagle Creek
                  Hobert
                  North
                  Ross
                  St. Johns
                  West Creek
                  Winfield
                  Total
                  %
               
               
                  New England
                  $8,250
                  $35,320
                  $4,450
                  $2,400
                  $500
                  $30,180
                  $300
                  $5,600
                  $5,000
                  $92;000
                  20.14
               
               
                  Conn.
                  3,950
                  15,300
                  850
                  
                  
                  3,800
                  
                  3,700-
                  2,200
                  29800
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Maine
                            
                        
                  2,500
                  700
                  2,000
                  
                  
                  30
                  
                  
                  
                  5,230
                  
               
               
                  Mass.
                  
                  11,300
                  
                  1,300
                  
                  5,450
                  
                  800
                  800
                  19,650
                  
               
               
                  N.H.
                  1,000
                  240
                  200
                  600
                  
                  2,300
                  
                  
                  
                  4,340
                  
               
               
                  R.I.
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  2,000
                  2,000
                  
               
               
                  Vt.
                  800
                  7,780
                  1,400
                  500
                  500
                  18,600
                  300
                  1,100
                  
                  30,980
                  
               
               
                  Middle Atlantic
                  34,670
                  51,450
                  14,220
                  3,075
                  2,350
                  35,650
                  3,260
                  26,925
                  11,050
                  182,650
                  39.99
               
               
                  N.J.
                  2,600
                  2,160
                  1,400
                  
                  
                  4,020
                  500
                  3,300
                  250
                  14,230
                  
               
               
                  NY.
                  23,370
                  46,730
                  7,800
                  2,425
                  1,950
                  26,050
                  2,760
                  18,425
                  6,900
                  136,410
                  
               
               
                  Penn.
                  8,700
                  2,560
                  5,020
                  650
                  400
                  5,580
                  
                  5,200
                  3,900
                  32,010
                  
               
               
                  North Central
                  11,515
                  9,000
                  5,830
                  2,230
                  50
                  2,025
                  200
                  2,875
                  
                  33,725
                  7.39
               
               
                  Ind.
                  3,400
                  600
                  
                  1,050
                  
                  
                  
                  250
                  
                  5,300
                  
               
               
                  Mich.
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  400
                  
                  
                  
                  400
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  8,115
                  8,400
                  5,830
                  1,180
                  50
                  1,625
                  200
                  2,625
                  
                  28,025
                  
               
               
                  Southern
                  5,400
                  1,120
                  4,475
                  3,200
                  
                  600
                  1,000
                  1,950
                  2,450
                  20,195
                  4.42
               
               
                  Ky.
                  1,500
                  1,000
                  300
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  800
                  250
                  3,850
                  
               
               
                  Md.
                  1,000
                  
                  
                  600
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  1,600
                  
               
               
                  N.C.
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  100
                  
                  1,150
                  
                  1,250
                  
               
               
                  S.C.
                  
                  
                  800
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  800
                  
               
               
                  Tenn.
                  2,800
                  
                  175
                  
                  
                  
                  1,000
                  
                  
                  3,975
                  
               
               
                  Va.
                  100
                  120
                  3,200
                  2,600
                  
                  500
                  
                  
                  2,200
                  8,720
                  
               
               
                  Foreign
                  3,700
                  36,875
                  3,600
                  18,880
                  50
                  20,210
                  33,535
                  6,500
                  2,900
                  126,250
                  27.64
               
               
                  
                            
                                Canada
                            
                        
                  
                  3,125
                  800
                  
                  
                  3,500
                  
                  600
                  900
                  8,925
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                  1,000
                  2,300
                  400
                  18,000
                  
                  9,350
                  60
                  5,400
                  
                  36,510
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                France
                            
                        
                  
                  50
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  50
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  1,400
                  24,100
                  2,400
                  880
                  50
                  4,860
                  30,475
                  500
                  200
                  64,865
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Ireland
                            
                        
                  1,300
                  7,300
                  
                  
                  
                  2,500
                  3,000
                  
                  1,800
                  15,900
                  
               
               
                  Unknown
                  
                  500
                  
                  100
                  
                  1,300
                  
                  
                  
                  1,900
                  .42
               
               
                  Total
                  $63,535
                  $134,265
                  $32,575
                  $29,885
                  $2950
                  $89,965
                  $38,295
                  $43,850
                  $21,400
                  $456,720
                  
               
            
            
            The age distribution also presents an interesting picture in that the older people were natives of a
                    foreign country or some other state outside of the North Central area, and the larger percentage of
                    the younger people were from the North Central states. Over fifteen per cent of the people were
                    above the age of forty. Of the 618 persons in this category, 66.51% were natives of the
                    Middle Atlantic, New 
                        England
                    , or Southern states, and 30.26% came from foreign countries. Approximately
                    eighty-five per cent of the inhabitants were below the age of forty. Of the 3,373 individuals in
                    this group, 52.95% were natives of the North Central states, 27.04% came from
                    states outside of the North Central region, and 20.01% emigrated from a foreign country.
                    There were no Hoosiers above the age of forty, but they constituted 34.01% of the
                    population in the division below the age of forty. One can readily see, therefore, that 
                        Lake County
                     in 1850 was  mostly occupied by young people. The
                    older people, who were probably the first settlers, were largely from states and nations beyond the
                    North Central states, while the younger people were often their children who were born in Indiana
                    and other North Central states. (See Table II.)
            Notwithstanding the fact that the young people predominated, the distribution of wealth according to
                    the valuation of the real estate owned indicates that the financial status of 
                        Lake County
                     in 1850 ranked above the average. Over eighty-seven per cent of the opulence was held
                    by people who came from the Middle Atlantic states, New 
                        England
                    , and foreign countries. The Middle Atlantic states ranked first with 39.99%,
                    of which 
                        New York
                     contributed 29.95%; foreign countries ranked second with 27.64%,
                    of which 14.16% came from 
                        Germany
                    ; and New 
                        England
                     ranked third with 20.14%. One may conclude, therefore, that since the county
                    was not settled until 1833, those that migrated to this region must have brought fell-filled purses
                    and, no doubt, were also thrifty. The average real estate holding per person for the county was
                    $114.18. Center Township, however, proved to be the wealthiest of the nine townships with
                    an average of $138.99 per person. Solon Robinson,4 the agricultural
                    editor from 
                        Connecticut
                    , and Henry Wells,5 a farmer from 
                        Massachusetts
                    , each owned property worth five thousand dollars, the largest holdings in Center
                    Township. Another man also of that township, thirteen years younger than Wells and ten years younger
                    than Robinson, was John W. Dinwiddie,6 a farmer and native of 
                        Ohio
                    , who owned real estate worth forty-eight hundred dollars. Nevertheless, George Earl,7 an architect forty-three years of age who came from 
                        England
                    , is listed as having real estate valued at sixteen thousand dollars, the largest in the
                    county. He was a resident of Hobert 
                  
                     4 For a biographical sketch and documents relating to. Robinson from
                            1825 to 1851 see Herbert A. Kellar, Solon Robinson, Pioneer and
                            Agriculturist, in the Indiana Historical Collections (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1916-), XXI and XXII (1936).
                  
                     5 For a biographical sketch of Henry Wells see Ball, 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                , Indiana, from 1834 to 1872, pp. 311-312.
                  
                     6 For biographical sketches of John W. Dinwiddie see ibid., 294-295; T. H. Ball, 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                , Indiana, 1884 (
                                Crown Point
                            , Indiana, 1884), 425-432; and T. H. Ball, Genealogical Records of
                                the Dinwiddie Clan of North-Western Indiana (
                                Crown Point
                            , Indiana, 1902), 50-51.
                  
                     7 The spelling of the name is here used as it appears in the census
                            records. For a biographical sketch of George Earl see Ball, 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                , Indiana, from 1834 to 1872, pp. 284-286.
               
                     Township. Harvey Childers, a young farmer twenty-six years of
                    age, a native of 
                        Ohio
                     living in West Creek Township, had the smallest holding which was twenty-five dollars.
                    The amount of real estate owned varied considerably, but the average per person indicates that there
                    were many in the higher brackets to make up for the large number who owned no real estate. (See
                    Table III.)
            
               TABLE III Age Distribution in 1850 of the Inhabitants of Lake Country, Indiana, According to
                        Place of Birth
               
                  
                  New England
                  Middle Atlantic
                  North Central
                  Indiana∗
                  
                  Southern
                  Foreign
                  Unknown
                  Total
                  %
               
               
                  Below 1
                  0
                  0
                  133
                  131
                  0
                  1
                  0
                  134
                  3.36
               
               
                  1 -4
                  0
                  12
                  527
                  450
                  1
                  19
                  3
                  562
                  14.08
               
               
                  5 -9
                  2
                  78
                  483
                  341
                  0
                  87
                  3
                  653
                  16.36
               
               
                  10-14
                  7
                  94
                  293
                  159
                  1
                  115
                  4
                  514
                  12.88
               
               
                  15-19
                  16
                  142
                  134
                  25
                  8
                  110
                  2
                  412
                  10.32
               
               
                  20-29
                  44
                  215
                  157
                  31
                  20
                  192
                  6
                  634
                  16.89
               
               
                  30-89
                  45
                  182
                  59
                  10
                  19
                  151
                  g
                  464
                  11.63
               
               
                  40-49
                  57
                  126
                  14
                  0
                  14
                  90
                  5
                  306
                  7.67
               
               
                  50-59
                  49
                  79
                  0
                  0
                  12
                  64
                  0
                  204
                  5.11
               
               
                  60-69
                  28
                  25
                  0
                  0
                  5
                  25
                  1
                  84
                  2.10
               
               
                  70-79
                  8
                  6
                  0
                  0
                  1
                  7
                  0
                  22
                  .55
               
               
                  80-89
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  .oo
               
               
                  90-100
                  0
                  1
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  1
                  0
                  2
                  .05
               
               
                  Total
                  256
                  960
                  1,800
                  1,147
                  81
                  862
                  32
                  3,991
                  
               
            
            
               
                  ∗ The figures listed under Indiana are included In the figures
                        listed under the North Central states.
            
            The occupations also varied greatly. Of the 1,102 men fifteen years of age and over who indicated an
                    occupation, 917 were farmers, 34 carpenters, and 19 blacksmiths. Because of the large number engaged
                    in farming, one may assume that they were attracted to this occupation by the opportunity afforded
                    to buy cheap public lands.
            The census records reveal that most of the people made their living by farming, but that many other
                    occupations were followed. They also show that wealth was largely in the hands of the older people
                    who came mostly from outside the state. The age distribution as exhibited by these records, however,
                    indicates that the younger people were to a large extent natives of Indiana. Into this kaleidoscopic
                    picture of 
                        Lake County
                     must be painted the role which education played. In 1850, there were 1,579 children
                    between the ages of five and nineteen, of which, 1,058 or 67.01% attended school. In this
                    connection, it also should be noted that of  the 1,716
                    inhabitants above the age of twenty only 131 or 7.63% could not read and write in 1850.
                    These percentages are significant because the public school system was not established in Indiana
                    until after the adoption of the constitution of 18518 and the passage of an act
                    on March 9, 1867, which authorized township trustees, trustees of incorporated towns, and the common
                    council of cities to levy a tax for school purposes.9
            
            Among the early pioneers in education were 
                        Lake County
                    's first teacher, Mrs. Harriet Holton of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , who was sixty-eight years of age in 1850, and Mrs. Jane A. H. Ball, also of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , who opened the first boarding school of the county on June 10, 1839. Since other
                    members of the Ball family displayed considerable interest in this phase of the development of the
                    county, the name has been closely associated with education.10
            
            Regardless of the nativity or age of the early settlers, the real estate owned, or the occupation
                    engaged in, they laid a solid foundation for the structure of the future.
            Since it may be of interest to know who some of the people were who did the spadework, the names of
                    the free inhabitants of Center Township in 
                        Lake County
                    , Indiana, for 1850 are herewith submitted as they appear in the census records. Columns
                    1, 2, and 13 have been omitted. The first column refers to dwelling houses and the second to
                    families, both of which were numbered in the order of visitation. There were 162 dwelling houses and
                    the same number of families out of a total of 715 for the entire county. Column 13 indicates those
                    who were deaf, dumb, blind, insane, idiotic, pauper, or convict. Only one out of a total of fourteen
                    for the county WBS listed under this column. The one inhabitant, a young woman thirty years of age
                    and a native of 
                        New York
                    , was insane.
            
               
                  8 Charles Kettleborough (ed.), Constitution Making in
                        Indiana, in the Indiana Historical Collections, I, 346-349.
               
                  9
                        Laws of th State of Indiana, 1867, pp. 30-31.
               
                  10 Ball, 
                     
                                Lake County
                            , Indiana, from 18.34 to 1872, pp. 241-246. For information on the Holton
                        family see Ball, 
                     
                                Lake County
                            , Indiana, 1884, pp. 405-407. An account of the Ball family may be found in
                            ibid., 438-444. For a biographical sketch of Mrs. Ball see Ball, 
                     
                                Lake County
                            , Indiana, from 1834 to 1878, pp. 337-339.
            
            
            
               TABLE IV11
               
               SCHEDULE 1.-Free Inhabitants in Centre Township in the County of Lake State of Indiana
                        enumerated [from August 6, to August 20, 1850], by B. McCarty. Ass't Marshal.
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Solon Robinson
                  46
                  M
                  
                  Agricultural Editor
                  5000
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Maria Robinson
                  49
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Solon Oscar "
                  19
                  M
                  
                  Shoemaker
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Josephine "
                  16
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Charles F "
                  14
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Lula "
                  12
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Yenna S Holton
                  28
                  M
                  
                  Sheriff
                  1300
                  
                            
                                Canada
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Lyman P Thompson
                  30
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  1000
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Lucinda "
                  29
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Laura A "
                  10
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Orin J "
                  8
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Amos P "
                  6
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  William C "
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Marth J "
                  1
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Isum King
                  26
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Almira "
                  22
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Marion "
                  2
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Maria Ann "
                  5/12
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Thomas Carter
                  38
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sophia "
                  28
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Canada
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Webb J "
                  5
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Mahitabel "
                  3
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Maria Ann "
                  3/12
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mahitable Robinson
                  50
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Canada
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Young
                  46
                  M
                  
                  Weaver
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  43
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mariett "
                  17
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Edward "
                  8
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  John P "
                  7
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Horace Edgerton
                  55
                  M
                  
                  Blacksmith
                  260
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Amos "
                  28
                  M
                  
                  Potter
                  
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Alfred "
                  26
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  600
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Amasa "
                  21
                  M
                  
                  "
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Polly "
                  19
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Esther "
                  15
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Maribah "
                  26
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  George "
                  8
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Lewis "
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Theodore Skinner
                  32
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  350
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William A Taylor
                  28
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  80
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Caroline H "
                  27
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Massachusetts
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Charles H "
                  7
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
            
            
               
                  11 Original Returns of the Seventh Census of the 
                            United States
                        , 1850, 
                            Lake County
                        , Indiana.
               
                        THE LEGEND FOR THE COLUMNS PRINTED IN TABLE IV
                        3—The name of every person whose usual place of abode on the first day of June,
                            1850, was in this family.
                        4—Age. 5—Sex. 6—Color—white, black, or mulatto.
                        7—Profession, occupation, or trade of each male person over 15 years of age.
                        8—Value of real estate owned.
                        9—Place of birth, naming the state, territory or country. 10—Married
                            within the year. 11—Attended school within the year. 12—Persons over
                            20 years of age who cannot read and write.
                    
            
            
            
               
                  3
                  4
                  5
                  6
                  7
                  8
                  9
                  10
                  11
                  12
               
               
                  Sabea M "
                  4
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Norman W "
                  2
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Obadiah G. Taylor
                  27
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  180
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Julia S "
                  21
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary Ann "
                  4
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Cassius M "
                  3
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  D C Taylor
                  23
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  150
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  -
                  
                  
               
               
                  Louisa E "
                  19
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  -
                  
                  
               
               
                  Lucy Taylor
                  57
                  F
                  
                  
                  200
                  
                            
                                Vermont
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Calvin S "
                  18
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Lucy Ann "
                  14
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Millard D Church
                  23
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  500
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  David Vinage
                  38
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  150
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Lasina "
                  34
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Elisabeth Jane "
                  12
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  James L "
                  10
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Jasper B "
                  9
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Mary B E "
                  7
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Delila A "
                  5
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Frances M "
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Sabea M "
                  2
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jotham B "
                  11/12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Lewis Warriner
                  58
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  1000
                  
                            
                                Massachusetts
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Edwin B "
                  24
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Fanny C "
                  19
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Thomas L Hunt
                  27
                  M
                  
                  Baptist Clergyman
                  600
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Julia Ann "
                  23
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Martha "
                  10/12
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  George W Dillie
                  35
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Freedom A "
                  31
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Leonora "
                  6/12
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Lyman Mann
                  45
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  100
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Almira "
                  27
                  F
                  1
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Amy L "
                  9
                  F
                  1
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Julia A "
                  6
                  F
                  1
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Canada
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  William A "
                  2
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  David Hungerford
                  46
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Eunice "
                  44
                  F
                  I
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Esther "
                  18
                  F
                  1
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Mariam "
                  14
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Busan D "
                  12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Freeman G "
                  10
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Mary A Hungerford
                  5
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Michigan
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Hannah A "
                  2
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Milton Carpenter
                  23
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Elenor "
                  20
                  F
                  1
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Adelaid A "
                  11/12
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William B "
                  19
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Amanda Carpenter
                  49
                  F
                  
                  
                  800
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John "
                  29
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  16
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Charles "
                  14
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Cornelia "
                  11
                  F
                  i
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Delia "
                  7
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  James C Nicholson
                  29
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  2000
                  
                            
                                Ireland
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Margarett Ann "
                  25
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William C "
                  5
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Mariam "
                  3
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Richard Fancher
                  51
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sarah Jane "
                  19
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Maria "
                  17
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Mary Ellen "
                  9
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Elisabeth "
                  22
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
               
                  William Tremper
                  54
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  150
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Polly "
                  47
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  George W "
                  27
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  Polly Jane "
                  17
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  John H "
                  13
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  William L "
                  10
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  James S "
                  7
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Olive A "
                  5
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Vanranslier"
                  19
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Diantha Higgins
                  26
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Diantha Norton
                  38
                  F
                  
                  
                  800
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Alfred "
                  19
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Roseanna "
                  21
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  George "
                  17
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jane Maria "
                  16
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Ransom "
                  14
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  William "
                  12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Laura M "
                  11
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Oliver "
                  9
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Abigal "
                  7
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Susan "
                  5
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Michigan
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Sally L Norton
                  3
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Michigan
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Abigal Pierce
                  66
                  F
                  
                  
                  700
                  
                            
                                Maine
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Henry Myrick
                  43
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Smith Sniller
                  26
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  James Wright
                  12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Jonah Thom
                  37
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  150
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Phebe "
                  35
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Canada
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Zilpha N "
                  18
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Abigal "
                  12
                  P
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Sarah J "
                  9
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  John Vanslyke
                  32
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Canada
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Matilda "
                  26
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Alfred "
                  6
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Levi "
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Edward "
                  2
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Monroe "
                  7/12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Anthony "
                  26
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  150
                  
                            
                                Canada
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Harry Norton
                  46
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  500
                  Unknown
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Malissa "
                  36
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Delia "
                  16
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Lydia M "
                  9
                  P
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Mary Ann "
                  4
                  P
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Michigan
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Enos Brags
                  20
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Henry Wells
                  49
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  5000
                  
                            
                                Massachusetts
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Adaline "
                  46
                  P
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Rodman H "
                  13
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Eliza E "
                  10
                  P
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Adaline "
                  7
                  P
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Homer W "
                  2
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Shubert
                  27
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  800
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Matilda D Vanvaultinburg 42
                  P
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Hess
                  55
                  M
                  
                  Black Smith
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Elijah Brundage
                  50
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  2000
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  42
                  P
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Canada
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Ruth "
                  18
                  P
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Levi "
                  17
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Hiram "
                  15
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Maria "
                  7
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  3
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Amos "
                  10/12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Ephraim Goff
                  43
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  120
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  42
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
               
                  Mary Goff
                  18
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  James "
                  16
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jane "
                  15
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  12
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Rachel "
                  10
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Lydia "
                  8
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Ephraim "
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Hannah "
                  6/12
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  James Thomas
                  54
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  62
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New Jersey
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Rhoda "
                  25
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  James "
                  19
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  16
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Rachel "
                  14
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Franklin "
                  8
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Theadore Bostwick
                  41
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  1000
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  26
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Canada
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John D "
                  5
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Michigan
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Ervin O "
                  2
                  M
                  [
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Elisabeth L "
                  9/12
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Henry Sherman
                  23
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  200
                  
                            
                                Canada
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary Ann "
                  19
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Oswold C "
                  4/12
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Alfred Fry
                  26
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Calista Sherman
                  62
                  F
                  
                  
                  2500
                  
                            
                                Vermont
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Michael M "
                  16
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Canada
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Ambrose Chapman
                  57
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Massachusetts
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Anna "
                  43
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sally Ann Farmer
                  17
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Thompson "
                  14
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Maria G "
                  13
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Tunice "
                  10
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  George A Chapman
                  17
                  F
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John R "
                  13
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  John Sprague
                  67
                  M
                  
                  Blacksmith
                  240
                  
                            
                                New Hampshire
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jeminia "
                  46
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Armanda "
                  25
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Clarinda "
                  17
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jane "
                  10
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Everline "
                  8
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Lucy "
                  2
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Abby E "
                  1
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  James Sweeney
                  57
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  500
                  
                            
                                Ireland
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Rosan "
                  30
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  George "
                  14
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  10
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mararett "
                  9
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Ann "
                  1/12
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Elias H. Hase
                  68
                  M
                  
                  Chairmaker
                  
                  On the Ocean
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Loyd Lamphier
                  41
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Vermont
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Phelinda E "
                  39
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Levi "
                  21
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Lyman "
                  19
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Loyd "
                  17
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Carnella "
                  15
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Martha "
                  11
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Adelaide "
                  9
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Austin "
                  6
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Edney "
                  4
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary J Pratt
                  26
                  F
                  
                  
                  400
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  George Ann "
                  6
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Michigan
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joannah "
                  4
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joseph Crandle
                  44
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  100
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
               
                  Cynthia "
                  36
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary J "
                  13
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  George "
                  11
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Charles "
                  8
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Matthew H "
                  5
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Michigan
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Maria "
                  3
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Levi "
                  1
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Martin Kellog
                  66
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  1600
                  
                            
                                Massachusetts
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John "
                  25
                  M
                  
                  
                  200
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Leviso "
                  20
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Martin v "
                  16
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William R Williams
                  43
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  2000
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Margarett "
                  32
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Martha A Cadman
                  7
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Daniel Chapman
                  20
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Benjamin Kellog
                  28
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary M "
                  23
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Esther A "
                  1
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William Clark
                  61
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  3300
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Ann "
                  60
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Alaxander "
                  27
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Busan Clark
                  21
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Michigan
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John F "
                  20
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Newton Pratt
                  20
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Cyrus M Mason
                  39
                  M
                  
                  
                  2000
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  32
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Matha A "
                  4
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  John W "
                  2
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Albert "
                  7/12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Morgan Pratt
                  9
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Michigan
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Henry Farmer
                  24
                  M
                  
                  Carpenters Joiner
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  James W Roberts
                  36
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  200
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Elisabeth "
                  36
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Harvy N "
                  14
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Abner C "
                  12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Vessalius F "
                  11
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  William v "
                  9
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                                Orlando
                             P "
                  6
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Mary E "
                  1
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William C Thomas
                  33
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Eliza M "
                  34
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sabvina "
                  7
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  James "
                  5
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Ly "
                  3
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Russel Eddy
                  63
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  2660
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Ruth Ann "
                  50
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Massachusetts
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Russel A "
                  29
                  M
                  
                  
                  1700
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Louisa A "
                  21
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New Jersey
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Gilber "
                  1
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  David H Pettiebone
                  29
                  M
                  
                  Clk circuit Cort
                  500
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Ruth Ann "
                  18
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Eveline Williams
                  30
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John M Busby
                  15
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Mississippi
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Hiram P Robbins
                  29
                  M
                  
                  
                  1000
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  28
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Stilman A "
                  7
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Albert S "
                  5
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Henry Burns
                  44
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Vermont
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Clark R "
                  18
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  200
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Thomas Clark
                  34
                  M
                  
                  "
                  2000
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Harriet L "
                  29
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William "
                  7
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Almira "
                  4
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
               
                  Alice Clark
                  2/12
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Harvey Pettiebone
                  29
                  M
                  
                  Physician
                  2500
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Eliza "
                  29
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary Eliza Pelton
                  6
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Milo "
                  10
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Harvey Pettiebone
                  2/12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Henry "
                  2/12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William G McGlashon
                  35
                  M
                  
                  Tailor
                  175
                  
                            
                                Canada
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Ann S "
                  32
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ireland
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jane E "
                  15
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Vermont
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Marand A "
                  9
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Lorenzo "
                  7
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Daniel Crambaoker
                  29
                  M
                  
                  Clerk
                  
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Satrina H "
                  25
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  FA "
                  4
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  LA "
                  3
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  W. E. T "
                  8/12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Zebulen P Farley
                  29
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  1100
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Amasilla B "
                  24
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mariam A "
                  5
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Edwin F Hackley
                  36
                  M
                  
                  Carpenter & Joiner
                  600
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Lucy E "
                  27
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John F "
                  5
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Leroy B "
                  3
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Floid R
                  1
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sally Ann Deyo
                  12
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Roswell Hackley
                  65
                  M
                  
                  None
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Orra "
                  59
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William Townley
                  44
                  M
                  
                  Clergyman
                  1560
                  
                            
                                New Jersey
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Eliza B "
                  43
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Candece Diiley
                  13
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Harriet B Townley
                  7
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  George 
                                Brown
                            
                  
                  6
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  George Scheussile
                  65
                  M
                  
                  Wagonmaker
                  50
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Laura "
                  64
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                France
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  Nicholas Young
                  21
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Daniel F Stright
                  49
                  M
                  
                  Clergyman
                  
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Apphia "
                  37
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Louisa R "
                  15
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  1
               
               
                  Coursen J "
                  13
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Adelaid A "
                  7
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  1
               
               
                  Merritt F "
                  3/12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joseph Rook
                  45
                  M
                  
                  Shoemaker
                  
                  Unknown
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Ellen "
                  39
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ireland
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  Daniel "
                  15
                  M
                  
                  None
                  
                  
                            
                                Scotland
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  I
               
               
                  Joseph "
                  9
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John "
                  5
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  I
               
               
                  Mary Ellen"
                  3
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Samuel Cade
                  30
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  200
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Matilda "
                  32
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Amelia "
                  8
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Michigan
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  1
               
               
                  Esther A "
                  5
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  1
               
               
                  William C Farrington
                  38
                  M
                  
                  Physician
                  1500
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Lydia Ann "
                  28
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Canada
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Stephen "
                  6
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  1
               
               
                  Frances A "
                  3
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William Sherman
                  26
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Lucy "
                  22
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Reed
                  42
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  600
                  1 
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Rarchel "
                  41
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  Andrew G Dilley
                  9
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  1
               
               
                  Mary AM "
                  7
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  1
               
               
                  Henry M Nash
                  36
                  M
                  
                  Carpenter
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
               
                  Lydia A "
                  29
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Canada
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Margaret J "
                  6
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Marian H "
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Willard Sherman
                  38
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  1000
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Dianna "
                  22
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Adelaid "
                  3
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  2
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William "
                  10/12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  David Turner
                  33
                  M
                  
                  Merchant
                  600
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Carolin "
                  25
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John B "
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Sarah J "
                  2
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary A "
                  1/12
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Sherman
                  41
                  M
                  
                  Blacksmith
                  
                  
                            
                                Canada
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary L "
                  30
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William "
                  16
                  M
                  
                  none
                  
                  
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Abel "
                  10
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  7
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  6
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Calista "
                  5
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Lydia Ann "
                  3
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Samuel Peterson
                  34
                  M
                  
                  Carpenter
                  250
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jane "
                  45
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William T "
                  10
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Harvy S "
                  8
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Martin M Wood
                  28
                  M
                  
                  Lawyer
                  250
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Susan G "
                  22
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Colket N Pratt
                  51
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  1700
                  
                            
                                Vermont
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sophia "
                  41
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New Hampshire
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Henry "
                  26
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Vermont
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sarah S "
                  3
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Barney "
                  14
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Michigan
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Major Allman
                  59
                  M
                  
                  Recorder
                  1200
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Laura "
                  50
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  17
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Canada
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Benjamin M "
                  12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Harrett H "
                  5
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Emeline Darrow
                  11
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  George H "
                  9
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Jane E Graves
                  20
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  James H Luther
                  36
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Calista "
                  40
                  P
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John E "
                  9
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Amos O "
                  7
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Albert W "
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Henry E "
                  3
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Caroline Dilley
                  14
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Alexander McDonald
                  41
                  M
                  
                  Lawyer
                  1000
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary R "
                  26
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Vermont
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Alexander "
                  5
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Ambrose S "
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  John Rasgen
                  45
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Gilbert
                  34
                  M
                  
                  Shoemaker
                  
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Elisabeth M "
                  32
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Nancy "
                  8
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Henry W "
                  5
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  George "
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Elisabeth
                  2
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jacob Gilbert
                  65
                  M
                  
                  Shoemaker
                  
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Polly Z "
                  33
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Thomas A "
                  1
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Robert H Wood
                  12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Amos Horner
                  39
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  200
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
               
                  Sarah R Horner
                  25
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  General T "
                  2/12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Aaron Cornish
                  23
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  -
                  
                  
               
               
                  Rebecca J "
                  18
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  -
                  
                  
               
               
                  Horace Wood
                  51
                  M
                  
                  Brick mason
                  
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Elisaheth "
                  34
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary E "
                  12
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Harriett M "
                  8
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  William A "
                  6
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                                Jasper
                             N "
                  3
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sylvester T 
                                Greene
                            
                  
                  41
                  M
                  
                  Shoemaker
                  600
                  New Pork
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Levicy J "
                  46
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  Ruth "E
                  20
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Chloe "
                  13
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Michigan
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Adelia "
                  11
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Sarah T "
                  9
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Lewis N "
                  7
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  John Shen
                  51
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  400
                  
                            
                                Ireland
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  1-4
               
               
                  Mariam T "
                  34
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  Michael "
                  13
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Canada
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  John "
                  11
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Mary Ann "
                  9
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Morris "
                  7
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Margaret A "
                  5
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Thomas "
                  2
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Edward Brgg
                  45
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Diana "
                  38
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Maria L "
                  14
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Hiram "
                  12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Benjamin J "
                  7
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Lewis "
                  3
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Michigan
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  A Burdick
                  28
                  M
                  
                  Carpenter
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Maria Ann "
                  25
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joseph P Smith
                  43
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  2160
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Ellen J "
                  39
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Massachusetts
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John M "
                  17
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  I
                  .
               
               
                  Ellen M "
                  15
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Martin B "
                  13
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Margaret E "
                  9
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Julia Ann "
                  8
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Martha M "
                  4
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William W Holton
                  41
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  1000
                  
                            
                                Vermont
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Bernette Holton
                  20
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Charles A "
                  1
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sarah F "
                  6/12
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Harriett Holton
                  68
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Massachusetts
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Charles Fry
                  21
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary Zimmerz
                  4
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Willing A Clark
                  34
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  4000
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary C "
                  31
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Henry A "
                  5
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Hellen "
                  4
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Charles S "
                  2
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Everlin J Sanger
                  19
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Cynthia Dodge
                  11
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Joseph Jackson
                  67
                  M
                  :
                  Inn Keeper
                  1200
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Amarilla "
                  63
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Clinton "
                  30
                  M
                  
                  Inn Keeper
                  800
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  P N Jackson
                  30
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Hellen A "
                  17
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Michigan
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  L
               
               
                  Caroline A "
                  5
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Olive "
                  1
                  F
                  i
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary Lowerman
                  IS
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Prusia
                  
                  
                  
               
               
               
                  Joseph Newman
                  20
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John A Crawford
                  33
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  1000
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Adaline "
                  26
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John S "
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William Brown
                  27
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  500
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William Fisher
                  27
                  M
                  
                  "
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Polly Gilbert
                  16
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Lyman Howard
                  27
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Aml Eliza "
                  27
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sarah E "
                  1
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indlana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Eliza Ami 
                                Brown
                            
                  
                  39
                  F
                  
                  
                  3480
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  12
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  John "
                  10
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  William B "
                  6
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Ann "
                  3
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  George "
                  1
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Brown
                  38
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  1000
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Faldeane Waltz
                  50
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Magdolane "
                  52
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Nicholas "
                  19
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Adam "
                  10
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Andrew Waltz
                  8
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Celia "
                  6
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Windel "
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John M. Baldwin
                  41
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  600
                  
                            
                                New Jersey
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Rhodo "
                  49
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  J P "
                  14
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  A M "
                  12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                                Milton
                             O
                  9
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Alfred E "
                  7
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Martha C "
                  6
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Benjamin Williams
                  47
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  800
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Elisabeth "
                  48
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Maryland
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Henry "
                  24
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Benjamin "
                  18
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                                Chester
                             "
                  13
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Thadius
                  8
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Missouri
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Robert Evists
                  33
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  Rebecca "
                  28
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  William H "
                  10
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Eliza Jane "
                  7
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  John H "
                  5
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Diantha E "
                  2
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  George W "
                  2/12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sophia McColly
                  36
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  Levina "
                  9
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Jeremiah "
                  7
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Lewis Lacker
                  28
                  M
                  
                  Carpenter
                  50
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Harriett "
                  24
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Pennsylvanla
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  David "
                  3
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Lavinia "
                  1
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  James Wright
                  60
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  1500
                  
                            
                                Ireland
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  55
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William "
                  13
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  John Livingston
                  43
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  2600
                  
                            
                                Ireland
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  46
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joseph "
                  17
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Thomas Hook
                  49
                  M
                  
                  Gardener
                  
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  Isaac Finley
                  68
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  400
                  
                            
                                Ireland
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Elisabeth "
                  60
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Luman A Fowler
                  40
                  M
                  
                  Carpenter
                  1000
                  
                            
                                Massachusetts
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Eliza "
                  34
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Harriett Ann "
                  14
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
               
                  Rollin D Fowler
                  12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Josephine "
                  10
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Arnold E "
                  7
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Loumin A "
                  5
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William S "
                  2
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary Jane "
                  4/12
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Peter Young
                  34
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  50
                  
                            
                                France
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  30
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  George "
                  12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  10
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Martin "
                  S
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Peter "
                  6
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Nicholas "
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Peter Orr
                  28
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Susan "
                  21
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                France
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William Rockwell
                  69
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  2000
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Darindo "
                  68
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William B "
                  35
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Timothy C "
                  33
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Malinda "
                  24
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Adelia
                  4
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Laura "
                  1
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Michael Rashgen
                  27
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  150
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Lillia "
                  19
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Michael "
                  1
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Barbary "
                  1/12
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jacob Shafer
                  43
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  700
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  36
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jacob "
                  17
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Parthelamans "
                  13
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  11
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Joanna "
                  8
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Cecilia "
                  6
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Michael "
                  2
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Casper
                  39
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  200
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Gertrude "
                  29
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  7
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Ann "
                  5
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Anny M "
                  2
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John "
                  1
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Eve Casper
                  96
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  John J Cline
                  36
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  200
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mactilane Cline
                  28
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jacob "
                  6
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  3
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Peter "
                  1
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Peter Lowerman
                  58
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  1000
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Elisabeth "
                  57
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sara "
                  21
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Nicholas "
                  19
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  "
                  
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Angeline "
                  17
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Michael "
                  15
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  8
                  F
                  1
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Peter Lowerman
                  27
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  300
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Elisabeth "
                  23
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Peter "
                  6/12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Peter Fry
                  46
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  500
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Elisabeth "
                  36
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Elisabeth Lowerman
                  11
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Matthias Young
                  40
                  M
                  
                  "
                  300
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Anna "
                  38
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  3
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  George "
                  2
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
               
                  Peter "
                  6/12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Bolen
                  27
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  700
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Anna M "
                  37
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Magteline "
                  4
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John "
                  1
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Magteline Shelo
                  25
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  Matthias Minster
                  12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Michael Bolen
                  36
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  700
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary Ann "
                  36
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  11
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  John "
                  8
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  5
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  3
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Michael "
                  1
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Sheror
                  40
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Angeline "
                  32
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Angeline "
                  11
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  9
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Elisabeth "
                  7
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Nicholas "
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John N "
                  1
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Conrod Booker
                  34
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  500
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  34
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Peter
                  2
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  1/12
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  George Young
                  26
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  800
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  Barbary "
                  21
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  Margarett "
                  2
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Peter "
                  3/12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Peter Lutwig
                  37
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  800
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  28
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  6
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Barbary "
                  3
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  2
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Rachel "
                  10/12
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Lutwig
                  46
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jacob Cline
                  48
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  40
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  Anna "
                  18
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  15
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Jacob "
                  13
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Michael "
                  9
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Peter "
                  11
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Nicholas "
                  7
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Barbary "
                  3
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Conrod "
                  1
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John P Lutwig
                  74
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  300
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joanna "
                  64
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  Michael
                  26
                  M
                  
                  "
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John "
                  21
                  M
                  
                  "
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary Booker
                  34
                  F
                  
                  
                  350
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Peter "
                  10
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  John "
                  6
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Conrad "
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joanna S "
                  1
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Leonard Cutler
                  43
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  2000
                  
                            
                                Vermont
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Vilona "
                  42
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sophia "
                  17
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Martha "
                  14
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Judson "
                  11
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  8
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Leonard W "
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Charles "
                  1
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
               
                  Michael Reeder
                  18
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Goodyer
                  34
                  M
                  "
                  
                  250
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Lucinda "
                  34
                  F
                  "
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Lucinda "
                  11
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Lester "
                  9
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Delass "
                  8
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Mary Ann "
                  6
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Gilbert "
                  3
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Endrew Bolen
                  31
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  400
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  32
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ireland
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  Anna Mary "
                  6
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Andrew "
                  3
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Margarett "
                  11/12
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Church
                  31
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  2000
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Lydia Ann "
                  27
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Silas T "
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Calista "
                  3
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Anna Church
                  64
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  Lydia "
                  19
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Alanson Cogswell
                  54
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  "
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Caroline "
                  17
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Alexander Lashley
                  9
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Edward Lashley
                  42
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                New Jersey
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jacob Miller
                  48
                  M
                  
                  
                  250
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  48
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  Jacob "
                  15
                  M
                  
                  "
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Peter "
                  12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Barbary "
                  8
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Michael "
                  7
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Peter Gard
                  44
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  1000
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Angeline "
                  40
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Peter "
                  13
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Charles "
                  11
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Elisabeth "
                  9
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Nicholas "
                  7
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  5
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Joseph "
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John "
                  3
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jacob "
                  1
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Peter Gedoms
                  44
                  M
                  
                  none
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Lewis Herlitz
                  44
                  K
                  
                  Farmer
                  700
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Gracia "
                  40
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Frederick A Herlitz
                  12
                  M
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                            
                                Michigan
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Lewis W "
                  9
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Anna G "
                  7
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Caroline W "
                  5
                  F
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John J Shultz
                  59
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  100
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joanna E "
                  17
                  F
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Lynn Prentice
                  46
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  700
                  
                            
                                Massachusetts
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  41
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Elvira
                  18
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Welthey "
                  16
                  F
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Electa "
                  9
                  F
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                                Orlando
                             "
                  6
                  M
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Hervey Ball
                  55
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  2000
                  
                            
                                Massachusetts
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jane AH "
                  45
                  F
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Elisabeth H "
                  20
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Georgia
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Heman "
                  18
                  M
                  Farmer
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Charles "
                  16
                  M
                  "
                  
                  
                            
                                Massachusetts
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  James H "
                  14
                  M
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Mary J "
                  10
                  F
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Henrietta "
                  8
                  F
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Jacob Metz
                  60
                  M
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  30
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  George "
                  3
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jacob "
                  2
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  4/12
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Catharine Casenbury
                  14
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Henry Von Holland
                  45
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  2000
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Louisa "
                  33
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Maria Louisa "
                  11
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Matthias Rather
                  23
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  400
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Rine
                  39
                  M
                  
                  
                  400
                  "
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  Margaret "
                  37
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joseph "
                  12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  John "
                  9
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Angeline "
                  7
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Rachael "
                  5
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  3
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Barnhard "
                  1
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Davolt
                  66
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  500
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jacob "
                  26
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Matthias "
                  24
                  M
                  
                  "
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Matten "
                  22
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jacob Hoffman
                  48
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  300
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Anna S "
                  38
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  John "
                  17
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Matthias "
                  11
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Nicholas "
                  8
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Peter "
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Michael "
                  1
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Francis Hoffman
                  33
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  200
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Margarett "
                  27
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John "
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Avy "
                  2
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John P "
                  4/12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Michael Hoffman
                  26
                  M
                  
                  none
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Peter Kiser
                  55
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  500
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Anna Mary "
                  53
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  John "
                  18
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Peter "
                  12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Jacob "
                  10
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Anna Mary "
                  6
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Nicholas Frederick
                  36
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Susan "
                  33
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Nicholas "
                  6
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Henry "
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John "
                  2
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Matthias Lowerman
                  25
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  200
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  22
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  2
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Margarett Lowerman
                  8
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Matthias Kiser
                  48
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  500
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Barbary "
                  54
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  Anna Mary "
                  17
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Effa "
                  17
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Peter "
                  12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Mary Hoffman
                  25
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John "
                  20
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Matthias Wathar
                  30
                  M
                  
                  "
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Angeline
                  27
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John "
                  2
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Matthias "
                  3/12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Matthias Gieson
                  46
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  1000
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joanna "
                  46
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Matthias Y "
                  21
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
               
                  Nicholas Gleson
                  12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Peter "
                  10
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  8
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Jacob "
                  7
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Joseph M "
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Peter Cline
                  45
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  40
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  16
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Ellen "
                  13
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Peter "
                  12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Matthias "
                  1
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Monternack
                  31
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  50
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Beckley
                  25
                  M
                  
                  "
                  200
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Caroline "
                  23
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  1
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John "
                  7/12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Martin Bufinck
                  19
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Beckley
                  48
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  1000
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  47
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  19
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Frederick "
                  17
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Michael
                  16
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Andrew "
                  14
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Jacob "
                  11
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Michigan
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  William
                  10
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Charlotte "
                  8
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Catharine "
                  6
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Charles "
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Henry "
                  3
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Godlove Saughtrs
                  36
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sally
                  28
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Godlove "
                  12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  9
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Charles "
                  7
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Cristeen "
                  4
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Margarett "
                  2
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Michael Saughters
                  31
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  100
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  31
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John "
                  5/12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Florean Foglesong
                  45
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  Mary "
                  55
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  Bennett "
                  20
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  200
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joseph Foglesong
                  14
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John W. Dinwiddie
                  36
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  4800
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary J "
                  32
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Oscar "
                  4
                  11
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  1
               
               
                  Jerome "
                  2
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Hellen Cline
                  13
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Charle V Holton
                  32
                  M
                  
                  Carpenter
                  300
                  
                            
                                Vermont
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Margaret J "
                  27
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John H
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Ira
                  6
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Joseph "
                  1
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Abel Farewell
                  37
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  2000
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Lavice "
                  27
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Darius C "
                  8
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Matilda Ann "
                  3
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Herman Dosher
                  47
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  2000
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joanna M "
                  42
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Herman "
                  20
                  M
                  Farmer
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joanna "
                  17
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Anna C "
                  8
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John C "
                  1
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
               
                  George Folkman
                  30
                  M
                  Laborer
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  Henry Sasse
                  46
                  M
                  Farmer
                  3000
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joanna "
                  37
                  F
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John C H "
                  18
                  M
                  Farmer
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  William E "
                  13
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Michigan
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Anna G "
                  7
                  F
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Henrietta M "
                  6
                  F
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Mary Ann V "
                  4
                  F
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Adam Hohn
                  21
                  M
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Borger
                  34
                  M
                  Farmer
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Michael Einsle
                  45
                  M
                  Wagonmaker
                  200
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Barbary "
                  45
                  F
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joseph "
                  17
                  M
                  Farmer
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  16
                  F
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sebastian "
                  12
                  M
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Josephine "
                  10
                  F
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Valentine "
                  8
                  M
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Hellen "
                  4
                  F
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joseph Barnhaltz
                  32
                  M
                  Farmer
                  500
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  29
                  F
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Henry "
                  7
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Missouri
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Julia Barnhaltz
                  6
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Missouri
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Francis "
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William "
                  2
                  M
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Josephine "
                  4/12
                  F
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Dennis Murry
                  28
                  M
                  Farmer
                  300
                  
                            
                                Canada
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Ann "
                  21
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Charles "
                  3
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  1
                  F
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Murry
                  35
                  M
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Canada
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  William Allen
                  41
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Amy "
                  34
                  F
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  (1)
               
               
                  David "
                  12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Almeda "
                  11
                  F
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Mary "
                  7
                  F
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Eliza "
                  6
                  F
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Sarah Jane "
                  4
                  F
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Joseph H "
                  1
                  M
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jacob Irish
                  59
                  M
                  Farmer
                  80
                  
                            
                                Vermont
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Rowana "
                  54
                  F
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Lura A "
                  19
                  F
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Ahimdaz R "
                  17
                  M
                  Farmer
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Judah "
                  15
                  M
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Don C Farewell
                  29
                  M
                  Farmer
                  2000
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Fidelia A "
                  25
                  F
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Adalade A "
                  3
                  F
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Milo S
                  1
                  M
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Samuel D Green
                  44
                  M
                  Farmer
                  1000
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Lucinda "
                  42
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William M "
                  15
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Martin R "
                  12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Cimeon S "
                  9
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  James E J "
                  5
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Leah E "
                  2
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Henry Klogs
                  
                  21
                  M
                  Farmer
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  -
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joshua Shim
                  38
                  M
                  Carpenter
                  
                  
                  unknow
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary E "
                  23
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  -
                  
                  
               
               
                  Frederick Westerman
                  42
                  M
                  Farmer
                  500
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Doretta "
                  43
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Frederick "
                  12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Lewis "
                  10
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  William "
                  6
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Mina "
                  8
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
               
                  Sophia Westerman
                  4
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  George Willey
                  36
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  1600
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Cynthia "
                  34
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Amelia J "
                  9
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  George A "
                  7
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Seth Gordinear
                  33
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                                Orange
                             "
                  31
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Horace "
                  6
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Jerome "
                  5
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Eliza G "
                  3
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Emly J "
                  1
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joseph Hunt
                  24
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  500
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sarah Ann "
                  23
                  M
                  
                  [sic]
                  
                  
                            
                                Canada
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Ransom Rankins
                  35
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  800
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sally "
                  35
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Massachusetts
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Laura "
                  8
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Levice "
                  6
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Riley "
                  4
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Bethany
                  2
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  2/12
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Christian Cline
                  42
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Charles Marvin
                  38
                  M
                  
                  "
                  1600
                  
                            
                                Connecticut
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Thomas Fenn
                  40
                  M
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jane "
                  39
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John "
                  14
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Michigan
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joseph "
                  12
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Ann E "
                  10
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William "
                  8
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Leonard "
                  2
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John F. Farrington
                  43
                  M
                  
                  Physician
                  
                  
                            
                                New Hampshire
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Emly Jane "
                  33
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Mary Ann "
                  13
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Henry H
                  9
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Dlantha D "
                  7
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Juliette T "
                  5
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Oscar O "
                  3
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  "
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William Alton
                  39
                  M
                  
                  Merchant
                  3000
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Sarah "
                  28
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  William B "
                  5
                  M
                  
                  
                  
                  Indiana
                  
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Catharine Meradith
                  60
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Margaret Herlitz
                  11
                  F
                  
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                                Warren
                             Pratt
                  18
                  M
                  
                  Farmer
                  
                  
                            
                                Michigan
                            
                        
                  
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Abraham Lincoln: His Speeches and Writings. Edited by Roy P. Basler.
                            (
                  Cleveland, Ohio
               , The World Publishing Company, 1946, pp. xxx, 843. Illustrations,
                    appendix, and index. $3.75.)
            The editor set himself the task of preparing a full and accurate text of Abraham Lincoln's
                    most important works. So well has he accomplished his task that a significant adverse criticism will
                    be hard to support. It is the best text of Abraham Lincoln's manuscripts now available.
            The author (the extensive editorial notes make him more than an editor) employed 247 selections to
                    cover Lincoln's most important works. They range in date from Lincoln's political
                    announcement to the people of "Sangamo County" on March 9, 1832, to his military
                    telegram sent to General Godfrey Weitzel at 
                  Richmond, Virginia
               , on April
                    12, 1865. Each selection is followed by its editorial notes. Together they occupy 750 pages of text.
                    Frequently the excellent notes far exceed the extent of the Lincoln document. For example, the
                    twelve-line letter to Mrs. Bixby is followed by five and one-half pages of notes. As a matter of
                    fact, the set of notes throughout the volume is the second best contribution of the editor, being
                    surpassed only by the corrected text of the Lincoln writings.
            Other features include a preface by Carl Sandburg and a fifty-two-page essay on
                    "Lincoln's Development as a Writer." This essay by Basler deserves an
                    honorable mention. The value of the book as a first-rate reference volume is further enhanced by a
                    list of the sources of text, a bibliography of the works cited in the notes, and an index. In
                    addition to the frontispiece, there are five well-known photographs of Lincoln from the collection
                    of Frederick Hill Meserve.
            The volume, which is quarto in size, is beautifully bound in light tan buckram with brown leather
                    labels lettered in gold on the front cover and the back. The endpapers carry a facsimile of the
                    letter written by President Lincoln to Major General Joseph Hooker on January 26, 1863.
            C. Percy Powell Library of Congress
            
         
         
         
            
               University of Birmingham Historical Journal. Edited by Philip Styles.
                    (Birmingham, 
                        England
                    , Kendal, Titus Wilson and Son, Ltd., 1947, 10s. 6d. annually.)
            The publication of this new historical journal by the University of Birmingham is a most noteworthy
                    event and should have cultural repercussions both in the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        England
                    . The Historical Journal has been established to provide an outlet for
                    the historical researches of "past and present members of the University," and its
                    first issue is not only a tribute to the editors but also to the historical scholarship of
                    Birmingham. The scope of this annual is not limited to any particular period or aspect of history,
                    but editorial policy requires that one article in each number deal with the local history of the
                    Midlands. The plan of the editors is to publish historical documents from time to time, but new book
                    publications will not be reviewed.
            This first volume more than carries out the intentions of the editors. One article deals with Roman
                    history, one with English medieval history, one with Bohemian history in the days of Hus, another
                    with the history of a Midland municipal corporation during the period of the later Stuarts, one with
                    the population growth of the city of Birmingham between the two World Wars, and last but not least
                    one treats historiographically the imperial problem in North America in the eighteenth century. The
                    selection is varied. The scholarship first class. The tastes of most English and American historians
                    should be gratified.
            Margaret Galway's treatment of the relationship of Joan of 
                        Kent
                     to the establishment of the Order of the Garter is an especially fine piece of work.
                    Well-written and ably organized, the article presents an excellent example of the use of internal
                    criticism to scrape away the historical muck that has surrounded the Maid of 
                        Kent
                    . It is a story of intrigues, danger, love, and pathos wherein the author concludes that
                    Joan "was more sinned against than sinning" (p. 50).
            The revaluation of Jerome of Prague by R. A. Betts, Masaryk Professor of Central European History at
                    the University of 
                        London
                    , adds to the historical knowledge of HUS'S great follower. Betts attributes
                    the lack of information on Jerome to the fact that he was a man of action rather than words, but he
                    is of the opinion that Jerome was at least equal to Hus in learning. It is a study that any
                    periodical dealing  with the history of central Europe would be
                    most happy to publish.
            Local history is apt to have an extremely limited appeal, but Philip Styles has written the history
                    of Bewdley in such a way that it is of interest to all students of English history, especially those
                    who are primarily concerned with the period of the later Stuarts. Bewdley, a town on the Severn,
                    mirrors the national scene. The workings of the Clarendon Code in this borough corporation assumes
                    additional significance because of the association of Richard Baxter with the town. In addition, the
                    reader is given a local study of those religious and political problems which "became
                    canalized into clearly recognizable Whig and Tory parties during the next thirty years" (p.
                    107).
            The most important contribution and the one which will be of most interest to American historians is
                    the analysis by the late Sir Charles Grant Robertson of the imperial problem in North America in the
                    eighteenth century. The years of study which made Robertson one of the more able scholars of the
                    eighteenth century reach their culmination in this historiographical essay. This is indeed a
                    masterful treatment of the revision in interpretation of the American Revolution from George
                    Bancroft to J. C. Miller, wherein Robertson carefully weighs the imperial problem and the changing
                    British and American attitudes towards it.
            Of the American historians who have written on this subject, George L. Beer, Charles H. McIlwain,
                    Herbert L. Osgood, and Charles M. Andrews are considered to be the best with Andrews leading all,
                    "to whose range of learning, scholarship, and sobriety of judgment, adequate justice has
                    not been done in Great Britain" (p. 137). It is too bad, however, that the works of
                    Lawrence H. Gipson were ignored. Of interest to Americans will be the statement: "It must
                    also be confessed that the American contribution in solidity of knowledge and determination to set
                    out the truth impartially is demonstrably superior to the British" (p. 137). Robertson was
                    too modest about his own impartiality and learning, and this bit of historiography should be
                    required reading for all graduate students working in American colonial history or eighteenth
                    century British history.
            The University of Birmingham and the editor-contributor Philip Styles are to be congratulated for the
                    fine beginning  that they have made with the Historical Journal. Books treating the history of the Midlands might be reviewed.
                    Notwithstanding, historical scholars will undoubtedly await expectantly the next appearance of this
                    well-printed historical annual.
            John J. Murray Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               Indiana, An Interpretation. By John Bartlow Martin. (
                        New York
                    , Alfred A. Knopf, 1947, pp. xii, 300, xvii. Index and illustrations. $4.00.)
            "Haven't you heard that there are only forty-five states left in the Union? 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                     have gone to Indiana, and Indiana has gone to hell." This little joke, which
                    author Martin incorporates in his volume, is not exactly representative of his work, but it does
                    indicate something of its character. It is not a lovely book. It administers a shock treatment or,
                    like Jove, hurls a bolt of lightning at the people of Indiana. The author strives to awaken Hoosiers
                    to the revolutionary changes which the Industrial Revolution has brought, and to the existence of
                    large masses of relatively uneducated people who are not qualified to decide problems of world
                    importance and who can be whipped into a frenzied racial intolerance. Gone, as characteristics of
                    the state, according to the author, are the neighborliness of the small town, the virtues of pioneer
                    days, the democracy of the common man, in short, the Hoosier tradition. Perhaps, Hoosiers need to be
                    awakened to the industrial character of their state. In this day of postwar reconstruction, they
                    should be reminded of the disgraceful story of intolerance and hate which was written in the state
                    after the previous world war. The critical treatment of local capitalists and labor leaders may also
                    have advantages.
            After the virtues of the shock or of the bolt of lightning are exhausted, the inadequacy of the book
                    becomes very apparent. The author is not Jove. His work is not a "sound"
                    interpretation of Indiana as the publishers claim. Lacking is an evaluation of the good features of
                    the state.
            The author devotes very little space to the period before the Civil War, but enough to reveal that it
                    means little to him and that he should have begun his work in 1860 or later. There is also little
                    relationship of individual chapters to the  entire work. The
                    attention directed to Court Asher seems unwarranted, since there is no demonstration that he is
                    typical or influential. Is a community to be interpreted by its most eccentric citizen?
            We are not sorry that the book has been written, for it may serve a very useful purpose. It should be
                    read by every Hoosier. As a criticism of Indiana it is significant, but as an interpretation it is
                    inaccurate and inadequate. We are surprised that a reputable publisher like Alfred Knopf should have
                    presented this volume to the public as sound interpretation. We assumed that the company knew
                    Indiana better and held a higher opinion of her people than is here indicated.
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Michigan
                        , From Primitive Wilderness to Industrial Commonwealth. By M. M. Quaife and
                    Sidney Glazer. (
                        New York
                    , Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1948, pp. viii, 374. Maps, bibliographical notes, and index.
                    $5.35.)
            This book is described by the authors as "a comprehensive history of 
                        Michigan
                     suited to the needs of classroom students and of mature readers generally."
                    Written by Milo M. Quaife, who recently retired from his position as secretary of the Burton
                    Historical Collection, and Sidney Glazer, professor of history in 
                        Wayne
                     University, it deals with the development of 
                        Michigan
                     from earliest times until 1948.
            Quaife, who for many years has been recognized as the leading authority on the Old Northwest, wrote
                    Part I, "Birth of the Commonwealth," which ends with the attainment of statehood
                    in 1837. Using the chronological order in general, he tells the story of the French, the British,
                    and the early American regime.
            There is plenty of color in these pages. The pageant of Sault Ste Marie, the founding of 
                        Detroit
                    , the Pontiac War, raids into 
                        Kentucky
                     from 
                        Detroit
                     during the Revolution, Governor William Hull's surrender in 1812, and the
                    exploits of Stevens Thomson Mason, the "Boy Governor," to cite only a few
                    examples, provide the author with interesting materials for his narrative. Part I, however, is more
                    than a story. Quaife has sketched in the background, sometimes in great detail, and he has
                    interpreted events and the actions of men.
            
            In Part II of the book, entitled "The Developing Commonwealth," Glazer presents the
                    history of 
                        Michigan
                     after 1837 by a combination of the chronological and the topical methods. The first
                    four chapters carry the story through the Civil War, treating of the shift in political allegiance,
                    the antislavery controversy, and the military record of the state. The next five chapters deal
                    respectively with lumbering, minerals, railroads, agriculture, and life in towns and cities.
                    Political events from 1865 to 1916 are discussed in the next two chapters. Then follow a chapter on
                    automobiles and highways, one on the period 1916 to 1932, and others on labor, population and
                    religion, education, and culture. A final chapter covers the years from 1932 to 1948.
            Slightly more than half the book is devoted to the history of the past century. Glazer has included
                    in Part II some discussion of all the significant movements and developments of the period.
            A few errors of fact and of interpretation have been noticed. On page 64, note 6, instead of George
                    Johnson, John Johnston should have been named as the father-in-law of Henry R. Schoolcraft. Father
                    Gabriel Richard served in Congress as delegate from 
                        Michigan
                     Territory from 1823 to 1825, not from 1825 to 1829 (p. 145). In view of the fact that
                    the Governor under the Constitution of 1835 appointed the principal officers of the state, his
                    powers, instead of being "more limited than at a later time," were certainly less
                    limited (p. 174). On page 229 occurs the statement that "the presence of the mineral iron
                    was detected through fluctuations of the magnetic compass, an instrument which Burt had perfected to
                    aid him in his surveying labors." The first part of the sentence is true, but it was the
                    solar compass which William A. (not R.) Burt had developed and which was invaluable to him because
                    it was not affected by the iron deposits.
            In addition to the text, the book contains a bibliography at the end of each chapter, a folded map of 
                        Michigan
                     in colors, five historical maps, an appendix listing the governors of the state, and an
                    index. The bibliographies and the maps in particular are useful aids for students and general
                    readers alike.
            This book is recommended to teachers and students of 
                        Michigan
                     history, and to those who simply want to know how 
                    the state developed from a primitive wilderness to an industrial commonwealth.
            F. Clever Bald 
                  
                            Michigan
                         Historical Collections
            
         
         
            
               The National Road. By Philip D. Jordan. (The American Trail
                    Series, edited by Jay Monaghan. 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana, The Bobbs-Merrill Company, c. 1948, pp. 442. Illustrations, bibliography,
                    index, and end maps. $4.00.)
            Here is history that is delightful and fascinating. The life of the Old National Road is described in
                    a quick pulsating style and illustrated with numerous anecdotes that keep the story close to the
                    earth and the people who used the road. The narrative begins in the days of George 
                        Washington
                    , Christopher Gist, and Edward Braddock and extends to the present when large air liners
                    fly above and along the road. The Congressional debates about the constitutionality of federal aid,
                    the route the road followed, and the progress of construction are sketched somewhat briefly, and the
                    account of its extension through Indiana and into 
                        Illinois
                     is thin. The best parts of the book describe the changing life along this famous
                    thoroughfare in the periods marked by new inventions in transportation. Chapters treating the
                    managers of the large coach lines, the coaches and the punishment they inflicted upon their
                    passengers, the freight wagons, the drivers, the inns, post riders, highwaymen and their victims,
                    death and disease, and the folklore of the road are concerned with the years before the railroads.
                    The chapter entitled "Highroad of Death" would be as pertinent to a work on the
                        Ohio River or to an account of almost any other important road. Briefly
                    told is the story of the Civil War period and of the following years when the railroads took both
                    freight and passenger business. A dramatic revival followed the invention of the automobile and the
                    development of the modern paved highway. This recent period is described in a manner particularly
                    fascinating to people who have used the road. It is also obvious that the author has profited from
                    his own personal experience.
            The vast number of details and generalities are stated accurately, satisfactorily, and at times
                    brilliantly. Only here and there, with considerable intervals in between, errors appear. It is
                    unfortunate that the author was deceived by  Kate M.
                    Rabb's imaginative Tour through Indiana. We have grown tired of telling
                    students that it was fiction and now Professor Jordan joins the list of those taken in by this
                    account. It is unfortunate that the footnotes are as scarce as in the other volumes of the series.
                    Except in respect to government publications, the bibliography is "suggestive." It
                    has always been a mystery why illustrations cannot be placed nearer the narrative they illustrate.
                    To come upon a picture of a huge modern automobile freight truck in the midst of a chapter on the
                    Civil War is not especially helpful. The author placed the cart before the horse, when he wrote
                    "The great state of 
                        Ohio
                    … had brought the road into existence with its Enabling
                    Act…."
            Scattered throughout the book are delightful phrases, humorous stories, jingling rhymes, and
                    interesting incidents. They make history as attractive and stimulating as life itself. The red cover
                    and gold lettering are appealing to the eyes of prospective readers. The book should make it easier
                    for college teachers to persuade students that historical reading can be a pleasure.
            John D. Barnhart Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               Historic Midwest Houses. By John Drury. (
                        Minneapolis
                    , The Univeristy of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 1947, pp. x, 246. Illustrations and index. $5.00.)
            This interesting and well-illustrated volume is not, as its title might suggest, an architectural
                    treatise. It is rather a series of delightful "little journeys" to the homes of
                    great and the near great who have lived in this vast midland of ours.
            The author, a seasoned 
                        Chicago
                     journalist and the recipient of a University of 
                        Minnesota
                     fellowship in regional writing, has long been interested in old Midwest houses. He
                    contributed a long series of illustrated articles on historic 
                        Illinois
                     homes to the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Daily News (1941-1942) and in 1941 published a volume on Old 
                            Chicago
                         Houses (University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press).
            The writer has been impartial in his coverage of the area. Dividing his territory into the twelve
                    states generally accepted as comprising the Midwest, he includes visits to eight or nine homes in
                    each state except 
                  Kansas, Nebraska
               ,  and the
                    Dakotas, making five visits each in 
                        Kansas
                     and 
                        Nebraska
                     and eight stops in the two Dakotas.
            One wonders just what prompted the selections made for one misses many an historic home which he
                    wishes might have been included. On the other hand, one would not wish to miss any found here. The
                    conclusion is that, to do full justice to important places in the Midwest, a whole series of books
                    of this size would be required. As it is, there are included portraits of some eighty-seven houses
                    which have sheltered great, colorful, or historic Midwest figures.
            In Indiana, Drury selects for illustration and story "Grouseland," the splendid
                    Southern mansion built by William Henry Harrison on the bank of the 
                        Wabash
                     at 
                        Vincennes
                    , the Rapp-Maclure place at 
                        New Harmony
                    , the Levi Coffin house at 
                        Fountain City
                    , Edward Eggleston's boyhood home in 
                        Vevay
                    , the Lanier Mansion in 
                        Madison
                    , William Vaughn Moody's boyhood home in New 
                        Albany
                    , the James Whitcomb Riley house in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and Eugene Debs' home in 
                        Terre Haute
                    .
            Paging through a volume like this gives one a sense of intimacy with the figures who dwelt in these
                    houses and certainly a sort of cross section of or index to the taste, architectural and otherwise,
                    of the inhabitants thereof. Few of these houses are distinguished architecturally, but some of them
                    like the Rufus 
                        Putnam
                     and Baum-Taft houses in 
                        Ohio
                    , the Lanier, Harrison, and Maclure homes in Indiana, the Menard and Lincoln houses in 
                        Illinois
                    , and Vallé place in 
                        Missouri
                    , the Agent's House at Mackinac, and the Botsford Tavern near 
                        Detroit
                    , together with the Sibley house at Mendota, 
                        Minnesota
                    , would figure in any survey of early architecture in the old Northwest.
            On the whole, the book is pleasant reading and brings together in one place much valuable information
                    about important Midwest people and their homes.
            Rexford Newcomb University of 
                            Illinois
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               The South Old and New, A History, 1820-1947. By Francis 
                        Butler
                     Simkins. (
                        New York
                    , Alfred A. Knopf, 1947, pp. xvi, 527, xx. Maps, illustrations, bibliography, and index.
                    $6.00 trade; $4.50 text.)
            Lay and professional students of Southern history have  long been
                    clamoring for an ample synthesis of the recent period. Simkins has met the need in an admirable
                    manner. While he calls his book The South Old and New, the emphasis falls heavily
                    on the new. Beginning with the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise, the author devotes only 162 pages to the period before 1865, while 329
                    pages are given to the years following 
                        Appomattox
                    . This distribution of space contrasts markedly with William B. Hesseltine's
                        South in American History, which, beginning with the settlement of 
                        Virginia
                    , requires 481 pages to bring the reader to 
                        Appomattox
                    , and only 180 pages to take him over the remaining period. The tendency of college
                    courses seems to have been toward a weighting of emphasis approximating that of
                    Hesseltine's book. It is to be hoped that Simkins' study will lead to a
                    readjustment in favor of the postbellum phase.
            Simkins has a definite reason for using 1820 as a jumping off point. As he sees it, the vehement
                    attack on slavery elicited by 
                        Missouri
                    's application for admission to the Union marked the beginning of the
                    South's awareness of a pronounced cleavage between herself and the rest of the nation.
                    Separateness, based on "common consciousness of kinship" has ever since been
                    endemic in Southern philosophy. A principal ingredient, if not the basic one, in the
                    South's distinctiveness, according to Simkins, is an unrelenting determination to preserve
                    white supremacy. He finds other distinctive qualities in the section's ruralism, religious
                    orthodoxy, and economic conservatism. Not only has the South succeeded in maintaining its chosen way
                    of life within its own boundaries—and this despite changes in externals wrought by war
                    and other influences—but has also, in Simkins' opinion, been able to a
                    considerable extent to convert other parts of the country to its views.
            In sketching the antebellum and Civil War period, the author seems to have leaned somewhat heavily on
                    older general works, and to have neglected recent articles and monographs. As a result, his
                    interpretations sometimes lack the freshness that one might desire. Among conclusions that recent
                    research at least lays open to question are those having to do with the profitableness of slavery,
                    lower class whites being pushed off fertile lands by large planters, immigrants avoiding the South
                    because of its labor standards and climate, and the importance of Northern wheat in preventing
                    English recognition of the Confederacy.
            
            In the opinion of this reviewer, the author in spite of an obvious effort to be fair is unduly harsh
                    in his judgment of Abraham Lincoln and overly generous in his evaluation of Jefferson Davis. To say
                    that Davis was a "logical choice" (p. 141) for the Confederate presidency slights
                    the claims of other eligibles, and to say that he was possessed of the "energy"
                    (p. 142) required for his difficult position overlooks his susceptibility to fatigue and dyspepsia.
            But these criticisms apply to a portion of the book that in reality is introductory. In treating the
                    period since the Civil War, Simkins achieves a high degree of accuracy, objectivity, and general
                    excellence. Because of his prior studies of Reconstruction and of the Tillman movement, his
                    development of the postwar period and of political aspects of the newer South is especially
                    praiseworthy. His chapters on education, religion, literature, and the Negro are noteworthy for
                    their informativeness and balance.
            Simkins' work is not that sort of history, revived and defended of late, which consciously
                    abandons objectivity in the interest of promoting pet points of view, and which by so doing builds
                    up reader interest—and hence promotes sales. His is the unglamorous middle-of-the-road
                    course which, while sometimes wearying the reader by scrupulously presenting and weighing both sides
                    of controversial topics, and perhaps disappointing him by failing to draw definite conclusions, has
                    the solid merit of leading him to goals that are sound and tenable.
            Bell Irvin Wiley 
                  
                            Louisiana
                         State University
            
         
         
            
               Northwest Harvest, A Regional Stock-Taking. Edited by V. L. O. Chittick. (
                        New York
                    , The Macmillan Company, 1948, pp. xvi, 226. $4.00.)
            The sixteen essays in this compact volume were originally presented at the Writers'
                    Conference on the Northwest held in 
                  Portland,
                            Oregon
               , during the autumn of 1946 under
                    the joint sponsorship of Reed College and the Library Association of 
                        Portland
                    . Although written by men and women whose interests range from literature to social
                    work, and embracing subjects that run the gamut of human interests from folklore to race relations,
                    the essays have one thing in common. Their purpose is to explore the extent to which the Northwest
                    has developed a distinctive regional culture.
            
            That there should be little agreement on this point is scarcely surprising. One author holds that the
                    area's intellectual patterns parallel those of the rest of the nation, another that the
                    Northwest has slavishly imitated the East, another that rebellion against the region's
                    economic colonial status helps explain its unique thought processes. Nor have the conference
                    participants settled upon—or even defined— the terms
                    "regionalism" and "Northwest." Indeed the one concept finding
                    unanimous support is that any culture worthy of the name must be universal in appeal, even though
                    using regional symbols toward this end. "My concern," writes Joseph B. Harrison,
                    "is not that a writer who works most happily among symbols drawn… from what he
                    knows best and likes most should abandon them; rather it is that he and we should recognize such
                    symbols as the language rather than the fundamental substance of his art."
            Indecisive as the findings of the conference were, they cannot be ignored by historians. Particularly
                    notable in this respect are the portions of the book that deal with the concept of regionalism. One
                    of the most searching essays, that by Joseph K. Howard, holds that "the true concept of
                    regionalism encompasses study of one's neighbors, the physical features of one's
                    environment, and the area's historical tradition, with intent to make a worth-while
                    intellectual contribution to the welfare of the nation or the world." This definition, as
                    R. F. Arragon points out in the best of the discussion papers, means that "regionalism
                    would be valid as a social and cultural concept… only insofar as the regional environment
                    had common meaning for its residents." Intellectual historians should be benefited by this
                    penetrating discussion of cultural (as distinguished from economic or political) regionalism.
            Scarcely less revealing are the portions of the book that reflect the attitude of today's
                    authors toward their native section. Nowhere do the literary great who have contributed to this
                    volume (all of whom sincerely love the Northwest) suggest that anyone writing about any other region
                    becomes a traitor to his homeland, or that a novel about the Northwest is necessarily a good novel,
                    or that authors should be patronized just because they are northwestern writers. The shallow
                    sectional patriotism of the past has apparently been relegated to a well-earned grave. The writer of
                    today, more universal in viewpoint than his ancestors, is willing to recognize  merit without concern for sectional bias. This enlightened viewpoint
                    portends well for the "one world" of the future.
            
               Northwest Harvest is ably edited by V. L. O. Chittick, who has skillfully
                    interwoven the comments of critics with the papers presented at the conference. The result is not
                    only an important contribution to the literature of the Northwest but to the nation's
                    cultural history.
            Ray Allen Billington Northwestern University
            
         
         
            
               The Conquest of the West. By Walter F. McCaleb. (
                        New York
                    , Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1947, pp. xiv, 336. Maps and index. $3.75.)
            This book is a concise history of the American acquisition or conquest of the Floridas and the Trans-
                        Mississippi
                     West. The first two chapters pertain to the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase and the Floridas, respectively. The ensuing fifteen chapters are devoted
                    almost exclusively to 
                        Texas
                    . With the exception of one single chapter entitled the "
                        Oregon
                     Fiasco," the remaining eleven chapters relate to Spanish 
                        California
                     and the Mexican War. The Gadsden and Alaskan purchases are omitted.
            In his prologue, McCaleb states (and erroneously) that "no historian has essayed to deal
                    with the western movement as a whole." If by this statement, the author means to imply that
                    he has here sought to achieve this goal, then an important omission is the West of the Atlantic
                    seaboard. Moreover, it would appear that his treatment of the Trans-
                        Mississippi
                     West is rather overweighted on the side of the Lone Star State.
            Within the uneven framework of the book, McCaleb has dealt courageously and clearly, but not always
                    impartially, with the subjects under discussion. In the case of the Southwest, he has gone to great
                    pains to show that expansionists believed, as he says, "in enlarging the national domain in
                    the interest of the state," not, as has so often been charged, "in behalf of
                    slavery." Moreover, the author believes that might makes right; that it was as fitting and
                    proper, as it was inevitable, for the Americans to conquer the Southwest at the expense of Mexico;
                    that only through bungling did the 
                        United States
                     fail to acquire what was rightfully ours—  the whole of 
                        Oregon
                    . "And unhappily," he muses (p. 152), "there is no hint in
                    our jumbled world that anything other than might or force will be brought into play to settle the
                    affairs of a tortured world."
            The book is rich in character portrayals, but the narrative—although very interesting and
                    refreshing—is not free from misstatements. For examples, in the chapter on 
                        Oregon
                    , he uses the term "Hudson Bay" when referring to the important
                    Hudson's Bay Company. He is in error when he states that the data concerning George
                    Vancouver and Alexander McKenzie are "hazy in recital and to some extent lack
                    verification." In referring to the exploits on the Columbia River of
                    the Americans, Robert Gray, Meriwether Lewis, and William Clark, he completely ignores the equally
                    significant activities of the Britishers, William Broughton and David Thompson. He credits the
                    Spanish with a better title to 
                        Oregon
                     than that of the British, and without qualification credits the Spanish with being the
                    first to "settle 
                        Oregon
                    ." And in view of extensive British operations in 
                        Oregon
                     by 1824, notably those of the North West Company, it is far fetched to say (p. 224) :
                    "Even accepting the British formula of occupation as the ultimate test,
                    we [the 
                        United States
                    ] were in possession of 
                        Oregon
                    ."
            Oscar Osburn Winther Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               Scientists Starred, 1903-1943, in "American Men of Science." A
                        Study of Collegiate and Doctoral Training, Birthplace, Distribution, Backgrounds, and
                        Developmental Influences. By Stephen S. Visher. (
                  Baltimore, Maryland
               , The
                    Johns Hopkins Press, 1947, pp. xxiii, 556. Maps, illustrations, and index. $4.50.)
            Almost encyclopedic in form and contents is this study of starred scientists. As a hobby of the
                    author, who is a widely known geographer, it fits into his work as social geography. The twenty-six
                    hundred scientists who have been designated by their fellow scientists as outstanding were studied
                    by the author in an effort to learn what forces went into the making of a scientist. The work
                    contains preliminary explanations, conclusions, and detailed presentation of the data, in the order
                    named. Numerous tables, charts, and maps present the material visually. A formal bibliography is not
                    included.
            
            The work must be read in order to secure an adequate idea of its contents. Since the conclusions
                    require one hundred pages and since much of the material is already reduced to charts and tables a
                    review can be only cursory.
            A number of conclusions are presented that will have special interest beyond the scientists who are
                    more particularly concerned. Large classes and student bodies in higher education are considered
                    unfavorable to the production of scientists. Disparity between the recognition and rewards received
                    by scholars, businessmen, administrators, and entertainers is held to be a cause for a decline in
                    scholarship. Young vigorous university presidents and teachers are more effective in recruiting
                    scientists from the student body. New 
                        England
                    , in proportion to population, led in the production of starred men in each of the
                    twelve sciences, but in the number of all starred scientists the East North Central states excelled.
                    The South has not produced so many. Neither topography nor wealth explain the rate of appearance.
                    Cities offer more encouragement than the little towns and the open country, although the difference
                    may be due to isolation and the lack of contacts which lead to opportunities for scientific
                    advancement.
            There are some limitations to the study. There is little consideration given to the idea that
                    scientists like artists may be born not produced. Some men have to sing or paint in order to be
                    happy. Do some others have to live lives of scientific endeavor? How desirable is recruiting of
                    scholars particularly if intrusted to the very young? Two items are emphasized until they suggest a
                    point of view rather than scientific conclusions. They are the lack of adequate rewards and the
                    necessity of young teachers for purposes of attracting promising students. Could we conclude that
                    these professions are sufficiently unremunerative that new scientists must be recruited when they
                    are immature and that the recruiting agents should be only slightly more mature?
            These limitations concern only a few details. Many others are stimulating and original. If the book
                    points the way to the production of more able scholars, it will be widely welcome as a significant
                    book.
            John D. Barnhart Indiana University
            
         
         
         
            
               Meet the Amish, A Pictorial Study of the Amish People. By Charles S. Rice and
                    John B. Shenk. (
                  New Brunswick, New Jersey
               , Rutgers University Press, 1947, pp.
                    21, 96 unnumbered. Illustration. $5.00.)
            The Amish, like the American Indians, have had their history and life written largely by those
                    outside their own fold. The result has been much unsympathetic, sensational, and inaccurate writing
                    on the Amish, whether in the form of books, magazine articles, or press releases. The volume under
                    review is a pleasant exception to the general run. In the preface, the authors state that they are
                    natives of 
                  Lancaster County, Pennsylvania
               , that they have lived in or near Amish sections
                    most of their lives, and have genuinely liked their Amish neighbors. This attitude seems evident in
                    the volume. Rice is a printer and photographer and Shenk is a teacher in the Millersburg State
                    Teachers College.
            A mark of accuracy is the correctly understood distinction between the Amish and the Mennonites. The
                    authors point out how the Amish split off from the Mennonites in 
                        Switzerland
                     in the latter part of the seventeenth century. One particular question in dispute was
                    the observance of what is called the "ban" or
                    "shunning"—the practice of having no dealings with a brother who is
                    under church discipline. Jacob Ammon, after whom the Amish are named, thought the Swiss Brethren or
                    Mennonites were not strict enough on this point and led his followers out of the parent group.
            The Amish are an extremely conservative people and manifest this in their dress (without buttons) and
                    in restrictions against automobiles, tractors, telephones, and many other modern inventions. Higher
                    education, of course, likewise has no place in their way of life.
            The textual part of the book is brief and free from improtant errors. It is not quite correct to say,
                    however, that the Amish are not allowed "to smoke cigarettes or drink intoxicating
                    liquors." Some, at least, are known to engage in these, especially in smoking. The Amish
                    one "meets" in this book are those in 
                  Lancaster
                            County, Pennsylvania
               . Failure
                    to point out that there are thousands of Amish in other sections of the country, including a few
                    thousand in Indiana, might be misleading to some readers. The textual part of the book deals with
                    the appearance and apparel of the Amish, their religious development, group characteristics, church
                         districts (in 
                        Lancaster County
                    ), weddings, diversions, education, birth and death, occasional happenings, occupations,
                    and the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Dutch (from Deutsch) language. Familiar examples of the latter are
                    given, and the influence of these expressions on the English used in these quarters is also shown.
            Most of the book is taken up with excellent photographs of almost every phase of Amish
                    life—their dress, buildings, farms, farm machinery and operations, homes and furnishings,
                    carriages, farm sales, amusements, weddings, schools, barn raisings, etc. Taking these pictures must
                    have required much patience for the Amish are hard to photograph.
            This work is a good corrective to the misleading picture in such works as Ruth Lininger
                    Dobson's Straw in the Wind, and it is a good pictorial supplement to
                    Joseph W. Yoder's accurate account in Rosanna of the Amish.
            
            Willard H. Smith 
                  
                            Goshen
                         College
            
         
         
            
               The Holcombes. Nation Builders. By Lewin D. McPherson and Elizabeth Weir
                    McPherson. (
                        Washington
                    , D.C., 1947, pp. lxxviii, 1,346. Index and illustrations. $10.00.)
            In a volume of 1,346 pages, Mrs. Lewin D. McPherson and her husband have published a most
                    comprehensive account of the Holcombe family in America, a family having as great a part as any in
                    the making of all North American civilization.
            She gives a background of English and Welsh ancestry of the several immigrant ancestors;
                    A—Thomas, of Devonshire, who came to 
                        Massachusetts
                     and 
                        Connecticut
                    ; B—John, of Devonshire, to 
                        New Jersey
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ; C—Dr. William Harcum or Holcombe, of 
                        Wales
                    , to 
                        Virginia
                    ; D—William, of 
                        Wales
                    , to 
                        Virginia
                    ; E—Richard, of 
                        England
                    , to 
                        Virginia
                    ; F—Zachariah L.; and G—Richard to 
                  Southhampton County, Virginia
               .
            In the introduction, the authors acknowledge indebtedness to many who contributed to this book and
                    list them in alphabetical order. There is an index of persons, of places, and sources of
                    information. Some ninety per cent are indexed in another manner, a "pedigree chain or
                    symbol." For example, Lincoln Ellsworth, the noted explorer, is listed as the son of James
                    W. Ellsworth, whose pedigree number is 
                    "A-1-5-6-2-1-1-3-4." The A means the immigrant ancestor, Thomas Holcombe; each
                    hyhpen represents a generation; the figure 1, underlined, means another name than Holcombe (marriage
                    of a daughter); each figure represents an individual ancestor and shows order of birth of that
                    person; so James W. is eight generations removed from Thomas Holcombe and is descended from the
                    eldest daughter. By shortening from the right one figure at a time, one gets parents, grandparents,
                    etc.
            To find a person, one needs to consult the last index in the book. Several numbers may follow and
                    should be looked up for a complete family record. Names shown in the Contents in the front of the
                    book are people having a large descent or persons of unusual distinction.
                    "In-laws" play an important part in the book, many family histories being
                    included. Also there are pictures of some descendants and views of Holcombe Court in Devonshire, 
                        England
                    .
            Mary Hill 
                  
                            Madison
                        , Indiana
            
         
         
         
            Genealogy: Abstracts of 
                        Warrick County
                    , Indiana, Wills, 1814-1839
            Thomas J. Dillingham∗
            
            
                    James, Ellenor. Will dated Feb. 17, 1816; no record of probate. Heirs: sons, Samuel, Lewis,
                        Henry; daughters, Ruth, Ellenor Hay; granddaughter, Ellenor James. Executors: Lewis James,
                        George W. Tevault. Witnesses: Benjamin W. Knox, Britain West. 
                            Warrick County
                        , Indiana, Deed Records, 1813-1817, p. 128.
                    Arnold, Joseph. Will dated June 23, 1814; probated Nov. 11, 1814. Heirs: wife, Hannah; children,
                        John, Rachel, William, Sarah. Executor not given. Witnesses: James Cross, Thomas Lee. Owned land
                        in 
                     Muhlenberg County, Kentucky
                  . Ibid., 1817-1819, p. 2.
                    Winkler, David, Sr. Will dated Dec. 21, 1821; probated Mar. 5, 1822. Heirs: wife, Sarah; sons,
                        Edmond F., Young U., Thomas, John P.; other heirs, Polly Jones, Vashti Wallis, Elizabeth
                        Allison, Joseph, Henry, David and Andrew Winkler. Executors: Joseph and Henry Winkler.
                        Witnesses: John and Thomas Jones, William Smith. Ibid., 9.
                    Rhodes, Daniel. Will dated Nov. 22, 1818; probated Mar. 1819. Heirs: wife, Mary; children,
                        Daniel, Andrew, Isaac, Sally, William (son by a former marriage). Executors: Joseph Arnold, Mary
                        Rhodes. Witnesses: Henry Rhodes, Jacob Matthews, William G. Buckler. Ibid.,
                        9-10.
                    Lawrence, David. Will dated Jan. 25, 1818; probated May 31, 1819. Heirs: wife, Sally, and
                        children (names not given). Executor: wife. Witnesses: G. W. Tevault, William Hancock, James
                        Lenn. Wished wife to remove to 
                            Tennessee
                         as it would be more convenient to give children schooling. Ibid.,
                        11-12.
                    Thomas, Westly. Will dated June 28, 1815; recorded Apr. 19, 1823. Heirs: wife, Sarah; daughters,
                        Polly and Cloey Thomas, and an unborn child. Executors: Thomas Downs, David Cazebier, Sarah
                        Thomas. Witnesses: Robert Simmons, Jonathan Chinoweth, Frederick Cazebier. Ibid., 79.
                    Penrod, John. Will dated Jan. 14, 1823; probated Mar. 12, 1823. Heirs: wife, Sarah; son-in-law,
                        George Mease; children, Elijah, Sarah, Peely (?), Polly, Anny, Lydia, Jacob; other heirs, James
                        Bell and wife Massa, Jonathan Penrod, Hannah Lout. Executor: Isaac Husband, of 
                            Pennsylvania
                        , and in case of his death, Alexander Ogle. Witnesses: Thomas Fitzgerald, Aha
                        Parker, Mary D. Tarlton. Ibid., 88-90. An earlier will, dated July 11, 1822,
                        is recorded in ibid., 49.
                    Stone, Calvin. Will dated Aug. 13, 1823; probated Nov. 19, 1823. Heirs: wife, Polly; four sons
                        (names not given); daughter, Sally. Executors: Polly Stone, 
                            Chester
                         Elliott. Witnesses: R. S. Ellis, Rowland Ellis. Ibid., 92-93.
                    
                  
                     ∗ Thomas J. Dillingham is a resident of Boonville,
                        Indiana.
               
                    
                    Pasko, Alva.1 Will dated May 13, 1824; probated Aug. 5, 1824. Heirs: wife,
                        Lucy; son, Otis Bramin. Executors: 
                            Chester
                         Elliott, Lucy Pasko. Witnesses: Joseph Baldwin, Alfred Baldwin, Timothy Judd. Ibid., 93-94.
                    Hargrove, Hezekiah, Sr. Will dated Oct. 14, 1827; probated Oct. 19, 1827. Heirs: sons, Seth,
                        Eldred G. C., Miles B., Hezekiah Harvey, James, John, William; other heirs, William Gray, Isham
                        Kelley. Executors: sons, James, John, and William. Witnesses: Tubby Bloyd, William Day. Ibid., 123.
                    Karr, John. Will dated Aug. 27, 1827; probated Feb., 1846. Heirs: brothers-in-law, Solomon
                        Vanada, William Briscoe. Executors: same as heirs. Witnesses: Joseph Arnold, Karr Briscoe. Owned
                        land in 
                     Livingston County, Kentucky
                  . Ibid., 124; 
                            Warrick County
                        , Indiana, Will Records, I (1831-1859), 50.
                    Lawrence, John. Will dated Jan. 30, 1828; date of probate not given. Heirs: sisters, Susan
                        Alexander, Rebecca Cox, and Mary Loy; brother, David; others, George and Evaline Merret,
                        Elizabeth Loony. No executor named. Witnesses: M. Leeright, Stephen Merret. 
                            Warrick County
                        , Indiana, Deed Records, 1827-1829, p. 125.
                    Smith, Harvey. Will dated Nov. 20, 1828; probated Jan. 5, 1829. Heirs: wife, Anner. Executors:
                        wife and Alpha Frisbie. Witnesses: Thomas Day, Robert McClary, James E. Lowell. Ibid., 125.
                    Tevault, George W., of 
                            Ohio
                         Twp. Will dated Jan. 11, 1829; probated Jan. 29, 1829. Heirs: daughter, Naomi
                        Bullet; son, William G. H. Tevault. Executor: Moses P. Condict. Witnesses: James Phillips,
                        Lyndon Hines, John Cox, Ross B. Duncan, Ira H. Bostwick. Ibid., 126.
                    
                  
                            Van
                         Kirk, Richard and Rhoda. Joint will dated July 10, 1829. Date of probate not given.
                        Heir: son, Joseph. Witnesses: Morgan and Fielden G. Glenn. Owned property in 
                     Daviess County, Kentucky
                  . Ibid., 128.
                    Roberts, William H. Will dated Aug. 9, 1828; probated Mar. 6, 1831. Heirs: children, Leanna
                        Young, William, Jane Clem, Elizabeth Miller, Solomon, Thomas; Anna Brant (relationship not
                        given). Executors: William Roberts, Brittain Glenn. Witnesses: Samuel Horton, Nathaniel
                        Woodruff. 
                            Warrick County
                        , Indiana, Will Records, I, 1.
                    Adams, Joseph. Will dated Mar. 31, 1831; probated May 5, 1831. Heirs: wife, Nancy. Executor:
                        wife. Witnesses: Thomas Hudspeth, Edward Baker, Jacob Harpole, Jacob Hargrove. Ibid., I, 2.
                    Bostwick, Ira. Will dated Aug. 10, 1831; probated Aug. 13, 1831. Heirs: wife, Calista. Executor:
                        Olney Hines. Witnesses: B. W. Love. William H. Tevault, L. Bostwick. Ibid., I,
                        3.
                    Baldwin, Joseph. Will dated Jan. 11, 1832; probated Feb. 26, 1832. Heirs: wife, Sarah; children,
                        Alanson, Alfred, Polly Fitzgerald, Eliza Smith, Mariah Graham, Lorinda Matthewson, Minerva
                        Minor, Emeline Baldwin. Executor: wife. Witnesses: George Whitman, Joseph W. Camp. Ibid., I, 3.
                    Scott, James C. Will dated June 30, 1832; probated July 11, 1832. 
                     
                        1 Pasko, Boonville's first physician, died August 2,
                                1824, age 37. The sale bill of his estate, including medical equipment and supplies, is
                                recorded in 
                                    Warrick County
                                , Indiana, Record Book, IIa, in the Recorder's Office, Boonville,
                                Indiana.
                  
                         Heirs: wife, Anna; sons, James and Joseph. Executor: wife.
                        Witnesses: David Hall, Tubby Bloyd, Ibid., I, 4.
                    Harned, Jonathan. Will dated Aug. 13, 1831; probated Oct. 17, 1831. Heirs: wife, Elizabeth.
                        Executor: John A. Graham. Witnesses: John B. King, W. Barker, N. A. Hanks. Ibid., I, 5.
                    Gentry, Shelton. Will dated Oct. 30, 1833; probated Nov. 10, 1833. Heirs: wife, Sarah; children,
                        Jesse, David, Nancy, Jane, Susannah, Polly, Elizabeth. Executors: John Phillips, Thomas
                        Stephenson. Witnesses: George Gentry, Z. Skelton. Ibid., I, 6.
                    Drake, James. Will dated Mar. 30, 1834; probated Apr. 4, 1834. Heirs: father and mother, sister,
                        Atis Drake, E. T. Coe. Executor: Elias T. Coe. Witnesses: Zabina Lovejoy, Edward Baker, James
                        Arnold. Ibid., I, 7.
                    Hudson, Isaac. Will dated Feb. 14, 1834; probated June 25, 1834. Heirs: wife, Nancy; grandson,
                        William McMurtry; children, Isaac, Daniel, Enoch, Sally Hinman, Matilda Patterson, Polly Hinman,
                        Betsey Wilder. Executors: Isaac Hudson, James Hinman. Witnesses: J. A. Brackenridge, Mark
                        Taylor. Ibid., I, 8.
                    Miller, Phillip Henry. Will dated Oct. 10, 1834; probated Nov. 8, 1834. Heirs: wife, Anna; sons,
                        John, Benjamin H., Isaac, Hiram, William M.; Sally Sheets (relationship not given). Executors:
                        William Luce, John G. Jukes. Witnesses: Larken Bristow, John G. Jukes. Property in
                                
                     Muhlenberg County, Kentucky
                  . Ibid., I, 10-12.
                    Johnson, Jacob. Will dated July 31, 1833; probated Nov. 22, 1834. Heirs: wife, Fariby; children,
                        Warren, Jeremiah, Albert L., Nancy, Kelley, Jacob, Minas, Zachariah, Polly. Executors: Jacob and
                        Kelley Johnson. Witnesses: J. C. Graham, Abraham Hougland, J. A. Graham, James McCulla. Ibid., I, 13-15.
                    Frame, Daniel. Will dated Aug. 29, 1835; probated Sep. 17, 1835. Heirs: wife, name not given.
                        Executor: Edward Baker. Witnesses: G. H. Roberts, Thomas J. Williams. Ibid.,
                        I, 16-17.
                    Frame, James H., of 
                            Ohio
                         Township. Will dated Nov. 10, 1835; probated Dec. 7, 1835. Heirs: wife, Elizabeth;
                        daughter, Martha Caroline Frame. Executors: John B. and William H. Frame. Witnesses: John B. and
                        William H. Frame, Timothy 
                            Butler
                        . Ibid., I, 18.
                    Hargrave, Seth. Will dated Apr. 24, 1836; probated May 28, 1836. Heirs: 3 children, names not
                        given. To be buried in burying ground at Bakers near his wife's grave. Executors:
                        Francis M. Ashley and William Gray. Witnesses: H. H. Hargrave, Polly C. Day. Ibid., I, 19.
                    
                  
                            Campbell
                        , William. Will dated Jan. 30, 1837; probated May 6, 1837. Wife, Elizabeth;
                        children, William Webb, William Hargrave, Cutbird Williams, Thomas 
                            Campbell
                        ; grandchildren, William C., Hugh, and Lettice Ward. Executors: William Webb and
                        William Hargrave. Witnesses: J. A. Graham, James H. Condict. Ibid., I, 20.
                    Taylor, George, of Taylorsville (now Selvin). Will dated Aug. 25, 1837; probated Oct. 27, 1837.
                        Heirs: wife, Edney, and 6 youngest children; older children married and have received their
                        share. Names of children not given. Executor: wife, Witnesses: William Jones, of
                                
                     Jonesboro, Spencer
                                County; Norman
                   Roberts, 
                            Warrick County
                        . Ibid., I, 21.
                    
                    Bryant, William, of 
                            Ohio
                         Township. Will dated Jan. 24, 1837; probated Feb. 20, 1838. Heirs: wife and
                        children, names not given. Money owing to him from Horatio T. Bryant. Executor: William Perry.
                        Witnesses: M. P. Condict, Moses Smith, James Foshee (?). Ibid., I, 22.
                    Condict, Philip L. Will dated Apr. 11, 1839; probated Apr. 27, 1839. Heirs: brother, E. B. L.
                        Condict, sister, Emeline Igleheart and her 2 children, Moses C. and John D. Igleheart, nephew,
                        Philip M. Condict, other brothers and sisters, names not given. Executor: Moses P. Condict.
                        Witnesses: E. B. L. Condict, Christopher Lockyear. Ibid., I, 23, 50.
                    Ellis, Roland. Will dated Nov. 4, 1838; probated July 27, 1839. Heirs: wife; son, Roland S,
                        Ellis; granddaughter, Malinda Ellis; daughters, Polly Stone, Abigail Elliott, Zelpha Fuquay.
                        Executor: son, R. S. Ellis. Owned land in section 6, T 6 S, R 8 W. Witnesses: J. C. Graham,
                        Elizabeth B. Smith, J. A. Graham. Ibid., I, 24-25.
                    Dorsey, —.2 Unwritten will dated July 16, 1839; probated July 23,
                        1839. Heirs: wife and children, names not given. Sworn to by John McCord and Austin Kelley. Ibid., I, 25.
                    Baker, John McCord. Will dated Sep. 15, 1839; probated Oct. 3, 1839. Heirs not named. Executors:
                        Edward Baker and John D. Little-page, to dispose of estate as they see fit after debts are paid.
                        Witnesses: Simon Lewis, Stephen Ravenscraft, J. A. Lamb. Ibid., I, 26.
                
         
         
            The Thiebaud Genealogy
            Julie LeClerc 
                        Knox
                    
               ∗
            
            The Thiebauds are among the finest old French-Swiss families in 
                        Switzerland County
                    . The first member of that family to come to America was Frederick Louis. He was born in
                    the Swiss Canton of Neuchatel on October 4, 1767, where he later married Harriet Prater. To this
                    union eight children were born in 
                        Switzerland
                    —Emily, Julia, Charles, Justine, Phillipine, Augustine, and Justi.
            In 1812, they attempted to emigrate to America but after three months on the water their provisions
                    gave out and they had to return. While at sea, Justi died and was buried in the ocean. Shortly after
                    their return, another son was born and also named Justi. In 1817, they again embarked for America,
                    presumably, from Havre de Grace on the "Maria Theresa," arriving in 
                        New York
                     six months later. They traveled by land from 
                        New York
                     to the Ohio River. An open keel barge transported them down the 
                        Ohio
                    . During 
                  
                     2 Probably Greenberry Dorsey.
                  
                     ∗ Julie LeClerc 
                                Knox
                             is a resident of 
                                Vevay
                            , Indiana.
               
                     this journey down the river, Justine is said to have fallen
                    overboard several times. After encountering many dangers and hardships, they landed about three
                    miles west of 
                        Vevay
                    , where they built a home. The first home was replaced about 1860 by what is still a
                    fine old house, known as the Thiebaud homestead and now occupied by Mr. and Mrs. Robert Gaudin. The
                    latter being a descendant of the Thiebauds. 
                        
                     I Frederick Louis b. October 4, 1767, d. December 24, 1846, m. Harriet Prater b. April
                                15, 1777, d. June 7, 1844.
                     A Emily d. m. Alois Backman d.; B Julia d. m. David Emanuel Pernet d., who built the
                                Black Horse Tavern at Mt. Sterling, Indiana; C Charles m. Elizabeth
                                Weaver d., m. Caroline Bersot d.; m. Mary Anne Hood d.; m. Zelie Bersot d.; Charles d.
                                1872. Children of his various wives: Julius, Alfred, John Louis, James, and 
                                    Bedford
                                .
                     1 Julius d. m. Kate Long d. Children: Ella, Josephine, and Jennie. (After death of
                                Julius, Kate m. James Anderson and had one son, Ed, b. about 1877 and was drowned while
                                yet young.)
                     a Ella d. unm. January 31, 1886; b Josephine d. m. Mr. Weaver d. No issue; c Jennie m.
                                J. P. Carter 1887. She died about 1941, some years after her husband. Their only child,
                                Scott m. Belle Raglan about 1937. No issue.
                     2 Alfred m. Eleanor Dufour, December 26, 1862. She was born July 27, 1836, and died
                                December 7, 1900, many years after her husband. Children: Clarence, William, Eleanor,
                                Thomas, Callie, and Belle.
                     a Clarence b. November 19, 1863, m. Mary Hill. No issue. He d. February 16, 1908; b
                                Wm. b. February 20, 1865, m. June 28, 1888, Julia Eldred. He d. November 21, 1907. One
                                child, Bird, b. March, 1899, m. Joseph King. N.f.r.
                     c Eleanor b. October 1, 1866, d. September 30, 1911, m. John Porter. No issue. d Thos.
                                b. March 30, 1868, d. January 26, 1926, m. May Dillman. Children: Dillman and Mildred.
                     I1 Dillman b. December 20, 1893, m. Grace 
                                    Brown
                                , 1914. N.f.r. I2 Mildred b. July 22, 1897, m. Dr. John
                                Keeling, December 16, 1917. Children: A1 John D. b. May 2, 1919;
                                    A2 James D. b. October 1, 1922; A3 Carol Lu
                                b. November 10, 1924; A4 Mary Anne b. January 24, 1929.
                                Thos.' Second wife was Margaret Cook. Nf.r.
                     e Callie b. September 27, 1869, m. Chas. Cowell, May 10, 1888. She d. January 13,
                                1899. Children: Edwin B., Alfred B., and Lucille.
                     I1 Edwin B. b. March 15, 1889, d. July 27, 1889; I2 Alfred B. b. February 24, 1891, d. August 2, 1911; I3
                                Lucille b. October 23, 1892, m. W. Clinton Duval. Children, adopted: John Robert and
                                Katherine. N.f.r.
                     f Belle b. November 6, 1871, m. Carter Fowler, November 6, 1894, d. 1943. No issue.
                     
                     3 John Louis b. 1826, m. Margaret J. McCallum, 1849. She d. 1861. Children: Chas. O.,
                                Orlena, and Hugh M.
                     a Chas. O. b. 1852, m. Emma Harrington, 1873, both d. One child, Henry d. in infancy
                                and Gertrude Harrington b. February 1, 1878, m. Mr. McDuff and d. 1944. No issue. b
                                Orlena d. unm. yrs. ago. c Dr. Hugh M. d. 1935, m. 1910 Lura Tilley, b. May 13, 1874, d.
                                October 11, 1937. No issue. John Louis m. second wife, Rizpah Bowers, October, 1863. She
                                died 1870. Children: Minnie Elizabeth.
                     a Minnie Elizabeth b. 1864, m. Andrew J. Porter, June 8, 1887. He d. 1946. Children:
                                Clair, Lela May, and Elizabeth. I1 Clair d. 1906 at high school age;
                                    I2 Lela May m. Claude Jacquart. No issue. I3
                                Elizabeth m. George Stewart, 1931. One child, George Jr. about 17.
                     John Louis m. third wife, Mary J. Johnston. No issue. Both d. for years.
                     4 James d. m. Carrie Oliver d. Children: Zellie, Oliver, and Earl.
                     a Zellie m. Mr. Day; b Oliver m. about 1897 N.f.r.; c Earl m. N. f. r.
                     5 Bedford m. Nan Harris. Both dead. Two sons. N.f.r.
                     D Justine b. May 29, 1809, d. 1888, m. Ulysses P. Schenck September 30, 1830. He was
                                b. May 16, 1811, and d. November 16, 1884. Children: Emily, Harriet, Benjamin 
                                    Franklin
                                , Andrew Jackson, Ulysses P. Jr., Julia d. at 14, George d. of yellow fever,
                                "down the river," unm., and several d. in infancy.
                     1 Emily, first wife of Dudley P. Craig, died soon after m. One child, Uly.
                     a Uly m. Mollie Davis about 1889. Children: Chester, D. P., Paul, and Richard.
                     I1
                                
                                    Chester
                                 m. — d. 1946, several children, N.f.r.
                     I2 D. P. m. — d. 1940. Children — Gordon
                                unm, Bettie m. John Graham, John N.f.r I3 Paul m. No issue N.f.r.
                                    I4 Richard m. — His daughter, Louise m. and a son
                                unm. N.f.r.
                     Uly has been d. some years and also his father.
                     2 Harriet d. m. J. B. Tandy 1855. Children: Carroll Schenck and Justine.
                     a Carroll Schenck b. May 30, 1856, m. Jeannette Carpenter, January, 1889. He d.
                                October 20, 1926. Children: Jeannette, Harriet, Elizabeth, Julia, Mary, Justine
                                — all born within eight years.
                     I1 Jeannette unm.; I2 Harriet m. Chas. Meng.
                                Children: Chas. Jr., Harriet, and Caroline.
                     A1 Chas. Jr.; A2 Harriet m. Marshall Tharp
                                about 1940.
                     Children: John Carroll, Julia Caroline, and Harriet Ellen. I3
                                Elizabeth unm.; I4 Mary m. George Sutton. Three sons in college: H.
                                H. Carroll Tandy, and John Lind. I5 Julia unm.; I6 Justine m. John Campbell. No issue.
                     
                     b Justine b. 1858, m. Chas. Cook October 19, 1882. Children: Geo., Justine, and
                                Miriam.
                     I1 Geo. d. m. Grace Erway. Children: Geo. Jr. (d. in infancy),
                                James, Justine Anne.
                     A1 James. unm.; A2 Justine Anne m. Sam Milan.
                                Three children: Geo., Wm., and Tandy.
                     I2 Justine m. Morris Miller. Children: Justine and Caroline. A1 Justine m. Jas. Shaub; A2 Caroline m. Jas.
                                Figley. Two children. N.f.r.
                     I3 Miriam m. Clair Reed. Children: Carroll Schenck and Corinne.
                                Justine d. m. a second husband, J.S.T. Walker, d. No issue.
                     3 Benjamin 
                                    Franklin
                                 m. Celestine McCullough b. March 14, 1840, d. December 23, 1885. He d. in
                                the seventies. Children: Eugenia, Justine, and Corinne.
                     a Eugenia m. 1887, Horace Eddy. Both d. Children: Ben. d. from effects of World War I,
                                Josephine, and Corinne unm.;
                     b Justine m. Maurice Zook. Both d. One son, Henry m. Had a son, John and a dau. N.f.r.
                     c Corinne b. about 1872, d. December 18, 1936, m. Theodore Dahlmann b. in 
                                    Germany
                                . He d. 1916. One child, Celestine m. Mr. Elliott.
                     4 Andrew Jackson b. 1842, d. 1899, m. Lutitia Craig about 1891. She died July, 1928,
                                after her second husband, Wm. Fry, had been d. several years. No issue by either
                                husband.
                     5 Ulysses P. Jr., b. October 21, 1851, d. April 30, 1892, m. May 29, 1872, Flora Hall.
                                She d. 1938. One child, Pearl d. 1930. She m. Dr. Oscar Wainscott about 1895. He d. a
                                few years ago. One son, Schenck d. about 1944, leaving a wife and three young daughters.
                     E Phillipine d. m. Thomas Allen Haskell d. Children: Lucy Harriet, Caroline Julia,
                                Henry Alfred, Phoebe, Charles Allen, David Emanuel, George W., Elizabeth, and John Louis
                                who died at two, and Thomae J. Henry Alfred died at six.
                     1 Lucy Harriet d. m. Henry Peters d. One child, Julia.
                     a Julia b. July 5, 1848, d. April 18, 1914, m. John P. Porter
                     b. September 27, 1845, d. September 28, 1923. Children: Sara b. February 17, 1869, m.
                                Kit Phillips. She is still living. John b. April 2, 1870, d. May 26, 1935, m. March 18,
                                1894, Celia Long b. January 31, 1870. She is still living. Child, Woodson b. September
                                3, 1895, m. October 16, 1923, Mrs. Leona Scudder. No issue.
                     Lucy Harriet's second husband was Benjamin Sebastian d. Children: Benj.,
                                Chas., Lucy, and Harry d. in infancy.
                     b Benj. m. children: Ethel who m. Mr. Stokes, and Alma, Irene, and Dorothy unm.; c
                                Chas. n Kate — one son, Howard; d Lucy m. John Kelley. Children: Mabel m.  Mr. Hodson; Ruth m. H. B. Nier, one child, H.B.
                                Jr., and Nina unm.
                     2 Caroline Julia d. m. Larkin 
                                    Lanham
                                 d. Children: Lucy m.; Harriet, Walter, Opha, Jane, Irene. N.f.r.
                     3 Phoebe d. m. Jonas McKay d. Children: Stella, Emma, Grant.
                     a Stella b. August 5, 1859, d. August 4, 1910 unm. b Emma b. September 5, 1868, m.
                                Noah Oliver d. She d. October 5, 1943. Children: Bazil d. at 21 December 6, 1918; Phoebe
                                m. Frank Wilson. No issue. c Grant b. March 30, 1864, m. Stella Danner, October 23,
                                1888. He d. July 21, 1938. Children: Wilbur, George, Mary, and Josephine.
                     I1 Wilbur m. Lillie Moreillon, October 20, 1913. Children: George
                                and Don.
                     A1 George m. Bettie — a baby, Don. A2 Don d. in plane crash in World War II.
                     I2 George unm.; I3 Mary m. Orin Lockwood, May
                                5, 1931. Children: Joan 17 and Mary Inis 7; I4 Josephine m. Robert
                                Gaudin May 30, 1938. Children: Grant about 9 and Robert 7.
                     4 Chas. Allen d. m. Melissa Peters d. N.f.r.
                     5 David Emanuel d. 1936, m, about 1870 Josephine Grey d. Children: Maude and Edward.
                     a Maude m. Chas. Pate about 1891. Children: Chas. And Sybil, unm.
                     I1 Chas. m. —. Children: a boy and a girl. N.f.r.
                     b Edward d. m. Mrs. Harriet Wilson d. March, 1948. No issue. She had several children
                                by a previous marriage. David Emanuel m. second wife, Indiana Henry, January 1, 1885,
                                who was born February 21, 1848, and who d. about 1937. One child, Caroline Henry who m.
                                Harry Wilson Haskell, stepson of her half brother, Edward, who took his
                                stepfather's name. No issue.
                     6 George W. d. 1925, m. Susan McKay d. Children: Harley, Hosea, Afra, and Fred.
                     a Harley m. —. Several children. He is d. N.f.r.
                     b Hosea d. 1928, m. Lizzie Hukill d. No issue. Hosea m. second wife, Mrs. Lorraine
                                Coates, 1924. No issue. c Afra b. about 1875, m. about 1893, Rev. Geo. Anderson, native
                                of 
                                    Australia
                                . Both d. Children: Mona and Eva.
                     I1 Mona m. —- Anita — 1923. One daughter,
                                Helen b. 1927; I2 Eva m. Mr. McCallum. Have three sons, about
                                college age. The McCallums were missionaries in 
                                    China
                                 for some time but now in U.S.
                     d Frederick b. August 16, 1877, m. Nell Coghill, March, 1902, d. December 29, 1935.
                                Children: Nelson Wayne and Lucille.
                     I1 Nelson Wayne b. May 14, 1904, m. Jean Sullivan July, 1930. One
                                child, Kay about 16; 12 Lucille b. March, 1906, m.  Harry Lamson, August 16, 1925. Children: Robert b. 1931,
                                and John Michael about 1938.
                     George's second wife was Mrs. Ollie Oakley d. No issue.
                     7 Thomas J. d. m. Emma Banta d. Children: Hattie, Will, 
                                    Mitchell
                                , and Henry. N.f.r.
                     8 Elizabeth Haskell b. 1845, d. Thanksgiving Day, 1931, m. Wilk P. Hall, 1863. He was
                                b. January 1, 1841, d. 1892. Children: Mary E., Sara W. and Adah.
                     a Mary E. d. April 17, 1943, unm.; b Sara W. unm., c Adah m. Fritz Rabb and d. a widow
                                1937.
                     F Augustine d. m. Benoit Courvoisieur d. Their son, Frederick was Treas. of 
                                    Switzerland County
                                 from 1866 to 1869, and P.M. from 1861 to 1862. N.f.r. Augustine's
                                second husband was Joseph Dow d. N.f.r.
                     G Justi m. Mary Banta, June 6, 1839. (She was the dau. of Rev. Henry D. and Eleanor 
                                    Van
                                 as Dol Banta, one of thirteen children.) Children: Harriet Eleanor, Emily
                                Jane, Frederick Louis, Henry D., Mary Anne, Charles, Benjamin 
                                    Franklin
                                , Rudolph Lamson, Morton Dow, Alice Augustine.
                     1 Harriet Eleanor b. April 16, 1840, m. Frederick Detraz, May 30, 1860. Children:
                                Alice (lived only a day), Mary J., Marie An-tionette, Henry B., Edgar A., Florence
                                Lilian, Harriet Emily, Bertha Enola.
                     a Mary J. b. December 20, 1862, m. Robt Scott, January 27, 1897. No issue; m. Eli
                                Haskell, August 24, 1926, No issue. Now a widow second time. b Marie Antionette b. April
                                25, 1865, m. Walter S. Conley, November 15, 1909. No issue; c Henry B. b. February 15,
                                1868, m. Mrs. Margaret Shaffer, September 6, 1932. No issue, d. February 15, 1946. d
                                Edgar A. b. April 17, 1871, m. Mrs. Margaret Mains, July 22, 1922. No issue, d. April 3,
                                1945. e Florence L. b. December 4, 1874, m. Edgar V. McKay, March 1, 1900. Children:
                                Mildred, Harriet, Detraz, 
                                    Geneva
                                 Edwards, Edgar D., Lois Florence.
                     I1 Mildred b. April 13, 1901, m. Leonard Wilson. No issue.
                     I2 Harriet Detraz b. May 7, 1904, m. Samuel Toll. Children: Samuel
                                Jr., Gwen, and Phyllis. I3
                                
                                    Geneva
                                 Edwards b. October 13, 1908, m. Frank Heacock. Children: Fred and James.
                                    I4 Edgar D. b. April 26, 1913, m. Ruby Moss-berger. Children:
                                Linda and Kay. I5 Lois Florence b. July 24, 1918, m. Rolland Rivard.
                                Children: Edgar and baby son.
                     f Harriet Emily b. February 19, 1878, m. Cyrenius G. Haskell, April 2, 1902. Children:
                                Fred B.; Harriet Emily's second husband was Chas. W. Hollingsworth, son,
                                Sanford D. She d. March 28, 1945.
                     I1 Fred B. m. Pauline Crane, August 4, 1926.
                     g Bertha Enola b. July 28, 1883, m. Geo. W. Reed, March 1, 1911. Children: Ruth L.,
                                Roger Henry, and Harriet Elizabeth.
                     
                     I1 Ruth L. b. April 8, 1912, m. Clifford King July 18, 1931.
                                Children: Clifford 
                                    Randolph
                                 b. February 9, 1933, Clair Edward b. September 29, 1936, Frederick Lloyd b.
                                July 31, 1944. I2 Roger Henry b. January 14, 1915, m. Edith McKay
                                June 5, 1937. Children: Paul Roger b. July 23, 1939, and Robert 
                                    Wayne
                                , January 9, 1941. I3 Harriet Elizabeth b. October 21,
                                1919, m. Ralph Miller, November 8, 1947.
                     2 Emily Jane b. May 10, 1842, d. June 11, 1919, m. September 28, 1864, John S.
                                Malcolmson b. December 29, 1842, d. April 24, 1914. Children: Perle, Della, Wm., Justi,
                                Mary E., Francis B., and Edna G.
                     a Perle b. November 11, 1865, d. July 8, 1940, m. March 25, 1896, Stephen McKay b.
                                October 13, 1867. No issue. b Della b. January 3, 1868, d. July 9, 1902, m. Arthur
                                Smith, November 28, 1896. Arthur Smith b. September 6, 1868, d. September 30, 1945. A
                                son, Stanley. c Wm. J. b. June 3, 1871, m. June 12, 1900, Cora Hart b. November 13,
                                1871, d. January 7, 1912. Children: Clair, Dale, John Hart.
                     I1 Clair, Baptist minister m. Irene Lacy about 1931. One child,
                                Wm. about 16. I2 Dale m. Mildred Henderson. Adopted son, Don. I3 John Hart m. Thelma Roehm, baby son, John about two years old.
                     d Justi T. b. February 24, 1876, d. September 3, 1924, m. March 4, 1908, Beryl
                                Anderson b. June 25, 1882. No issue, e Mary E. b. March 28, 1878, d. September 3, 1897,
                                unm. f Francis B. b. November 11, 1881, d. March 14, 1921, m. October 19, 1910, Hattie
                                Means b. May 3, 1888, d. January 10, 1938. No issue. g Edna G. b. August 24, 1885, unm.
                     3 Frederick Louis b. August 14, 1844, d. May 14, 1919, m. April 24, 1867, Sarah
                                Malcolmson b. March 16, 1846, d. August 13, 1907. Children: Cora, Janette, Emory, Mary
                                G., Louis C., William, Clifford.
                     a Cora b. March 14, 1868, d. August, 1920, unm. b Janette b. December 9, 1871, unm. c
                                Emory b. March, 1855, d. November, 1928, m. Louise Protsman. One child, Frederick m.
                                — a son, Freedrick Louis b. 1946. d Mary G. b. August 6, 1878, d. December
                                25, 1944, m. April 7, 1903, Myrna Griffith b. August 28, 1876, d. September 10, 1945.
                                Children: Helen, Frederick, Vernon, and Mary.
                     I1 Helen Josephine b. March 14, 1904, m. B. F. Darnall, December
                                21, 1929. No issue. I2 Frederick b. December 17, 1906, m. Mrs.
                                Bernice Drake Brandon, 1943. No issue. I3 Vernon b. September 11,
                                1912, m. Sarah Swab, May 31, 1942. A child. Wm. Michael, about four years old. I4 Mary b. July 24, 1913, m. F. F. Havey, October 26, 1935. Children:
                                Judith about 13 and Timothy about 7.
                     e Louis b. November 14, 1882, m. Golda Andrews, March 12, 1921. Golda b. 1888. No
                                issue. f Wm. b. January,  1887, d. September, 1902,
                                a school boy. g Clifford b. March. 1889, d. 1936, m. Amie Plank. Several children N.f.r.
                     4 Mary Anne m. Jas. Anderson. Children: Ora, Carl, Hazel, N.f.r.
                     5 Henry D. was drowned.
                     6 Charles V. b. July 5, 1851, d. August 5, 1905, m. September 26, 1877, Margaret
                                Malcolmson, d. January 28, 1930, sister of Sarah and John who also m. Thiebauds.
                                Children: Jessie and Lela.
                     a Jessie m. Wm. Clapp, 1908. He d. 1913. No issue.
                     b Lela m. Mr. Austin, 1920. A dau. Peggy, m. 1946. N.f.r.
                     7 Benjamin 
                                    Franklin
                                 b. 1855, m. September 16, 1885, Alice A. Lamberson, d. Children: Lois and
                                Thornton, twins and Marguerite and Lester N.f.r. Benjamin 
                                    Franklin
                                 m. a second wife, Mrs. Clara Brindley, November 9, 1921. He d. April, 1925,
                                and she d. July 15, 1940. No issue.
                     8 Rudolph Lamson d. about 1942, m. Angie Welch, d. November 25, 1880. Children: Curtis
                                and Ledgreed. Rudolph Lamson's second wife was Rebecca L. Welch. One child,
                                Morton Dow, d. 1948.
                     9 Alice Augustine m. Albert J. Shaw, April 1879. Both d. some years. Children: Grace,
                                Earl, Justi, Hazel, and Gladys.
                     a Grace m. October 30, 1901, John W. Knox, b. February 24 1871, d. May 1, 1936.
                                Children: Albert and Henry Kern.
                     I1 Albert b. 1902, m. Reba Cullum. No issue.
                     I2 Henry Kern b. 1906, m. Venita 
                                    Montgomery
                                . No issue.
                     b Earl d. 1932. m. Dora Twineham 1911. Children: Chas. and Lucien.
                     I1 Chas. m. 1940 Wanda —. Two little boys. I2
                     
                     Lucien unm. Seriously wounded in World War IT. c Justi m. 1920, Carrie Craig d. One
                                child, Elizabeth m. September 5, 1947, Ray T. McCord. Justi m. 1928, a second wife,
                                Grace Golay. No issue. d Hazel m. 1914, Rodney Danner d. December, 1939. Children:
                                Chas., Helen, Mary, and Robert.
                     I1 Chas. m. Doris Hardin, 1942. Child, Rodney about two.
                     I2 Helen m. December 23, 1939, Dr. John David Stepleton. A boy b.
                                November 17, 1946. Is Mary unm. Robert d. March, 1948, about 1.1.
                     e Gladys m. Ethol 
                                    Brown
                                , 1919. Children: Norman b. 1921, and Lucy Alice b. 1933.
                     10 Morton Dow b. April 7, 1861, m. September 16, 1884, Lillie M. DeBarth d. Morton
                                DOW'S second wife was Mrs. Bessie Kaiser. No issue. An adopted dau., Mrs.
                                Gertrude Gardner and a step son, R. S. Kaiser. Morton Dow d. 1946.
                  
                        Information is gratefully acknowledged for information given to Mesdames Mollie Haskell,
                            Bertha Reed, Stella McKay, Beryl Malcolmson, Rodney Danner, John Knox, Ethol 
                                Brown
                            , Carroll Tandy  and daughter Julia, Misses
                            Sara W. Hall, Edna Malcolmson, Grace Griffith, Robert Coates, Mrs. Ray Morrison, Mrs. Nelson
                            Haskell, and Mrs. Woodson Porter.
                    
                
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
      
   
