
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 93, Issue 1, pages 1-103. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:93+issue:1+year:1997&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            "Devoted to the Past for the Sake of the Present": George S. Cottman and the Indiana Magazine of History
            
            
                    Ray Boomhower
                    *
                
            In the spring of 1905 in his 
                        Irvington
                    , Indiana, home, a smalltime printer and writer of numerous articles on Hoosier history
                    for area newspapers set type for a new publication. This job was different from tasks the printer
                    had performed in the past for paying customers because the periodical he printed on a Gordon press
                    featured his name on the masthead as editor. Although he later told an 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star reporter that it had been "folly to undertake such a thing"
                    as he had insufficient capital to embark on such a financially risky venture, the periodical George
                    S. Cottman started more than ninety years ago-the Indiana Magazine of
                    History-survives today as a quarterly magazine devoted to informing and instructing those
                    interested in the nineteenth state's past.1
            
            The printer, who vowed that his creation would contain matter of real value to students of history
                    and no "cheap padding," seems, at first glance, to be poorly fitted for
                    administering such an enterprise. Cottman's education went no further than that provided by
                    the 
                        Beech Grove
                     district schools. He had no formal training as an historian or editor. Cottman learned
                    about the printing trade as an apprentice with the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel; and he admitted, "I am at best but part historian, for there
                    are in that field areas many and extensive that are to me drearily arid; for example, that
                    hypothetical unraveling of long-buried questions, that must always remain hypothetical, and which,
                    if once accepted really interest nobody." The part of history that interested Cottman was
                    the "picturesque element 
                  
                     * Ray Boomhower is public relations coordinator for the
                            Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , and is a contributing editor for the IHS's illustrated history
                            magazine, Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History. An earlier version of
                            this article, entitled "Showing an Accommodating Spirit to Authors: The Publishing
                            Careers of David Laurance Chambers and George Cottman," was presented as a session
                            at the society's Local History/Family History Summer Symposium on July 21, 1995.
                  
                     1 Kate Milner Rabb, "George S. Cottman, Living in Retirement
                            at 
                                Madison
                            , Keeps On as Historical Writer," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, April 10, 1932. The name carried on the title page of
                            Cottman's publication from March, 1905, through March, 1913, was Indiana Quarterly Magazine of History. Beginning with the June, 1913, issue and
                            continuing to the present, the official title has been simply Indiana Magazine
                                of History, and Cottman himself frequently used the shorter name even between 1905
                            and 1913. William O. Lynch, "A History of the Indiana Magazine of
                                History," Indiana Magazine of History, LI (March, 1955), 2.
               
                     —the resurrection of the archaic and quaint and novel
                    that casts a grace over existence." He possessed an insatiable appetite for unearthing
                    information about these aspects of Indiana's past, as well as a talent for imparting that
                    information to readers through his writing of history-related features for a number of 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers. These elements, too, he labored to bring alive in the pages of his
                        magazine.2
            
            Cottman, as he further described himself, "happened to be one of those human freaks
                    occasionally perpetrated by nature who elect to do what they like to do regardless of emoluments. To
                    the man built this way, who can waive such an inconsequential matter as the problem of living, all
                    things are possible."3 This character trait was, perhaps, of greater
                    importance for the young, struggling IMH, with its handful of subscribers, than
                    the editor's passion for history. Even before he started his historical publication,
                    Cottman had realized there existed "slim chance for a money compensation commensurate with
                    the historian's slow, onerous toil as he burrows mole-like through documentary
                        darkness."4 Instead of depending upon the magazine to provide his
                    living, Cottman had to rely upon his income as a printer to provide for his wife, Vida, and his son,
                    Evans. In 1919 Cottman abandoned the printing trade to become director of the 
                        Jefferson County
                     Historical Society and curator at the James F. D. Lanier Mansion in 
                        Madison
                    . He and his family lived in the mansion for their first few years in the southern
                    Indiana community. After accepting a job as a science teacher at 
                        Madison
                     High School in 1925, Evans Cottman eventually brought his mother and father, along with
                    his Aunt Mabel Tibbott, his mother's sister, to live with him in a home overlooking the
                        Ohio River. The elder Cottman lived in that house until his death on May
                    18, 1941.5
            
            Although never gaining riches through his work as a printer, writer, and editor, Cottman retained his
                    wry sense of humor throughout his life. Passionate about Indiana's history, he took himself
                    far less seriously. Asked to provide some information about his life for an article in The Teacher's Journal, Cottman replied by observing that he could be described as
                    "something of an Apollo in appearance, only more developed in the roof garden where I
                    cultivate my flowers of thought." He went on to say that he was known for being a
                    "swell dresser with a pronounced weakness for overalls of some fashionable stripe, and cut
                    full to carefully conceal the figure." Turning to 
                  
                     2 George S. Cottman, "An Autobiography," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXI (June, 1935), 131–36,
                            quotations 133–34.
                  
                     3 George S. Cottman, "The Indiana Magazine of History: A
                            Retrospect," Indiana Magazine of History, XXV (December, 1929),
                            281.
                  
                     4 George S. Cottman, "History to Order," Indiana Magazine of History, VII (March, 1911), 16.
                  
                     5 Evans W. Cottman, Out-Island Doctor (
                                New York
                            , 1963), 8–9. See also "George S. Cottman Dead," 
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, May 19, 1941; "George S. Cottman, 84, Hoosier Historian
                            Is Dead Downstate," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 19, 1941.
               
                     his career as a writer, Cottman confidently claimed that he could
                    have achieved success in the fields of poetry, drama, fiction, history, and philosophy had he
                    permitted himself "to cut loose, but it is not best to turn one's self inside
                    out-best to keep things in reserve, and so I have practiced the virtue of self-restraint."
                    As an example he noted that for many years he had "cunningly concealed the fact that I am a
                    humorist, and to the present day even the wife of my bosom does not suspect it." Cottman
                    concluded his life's story by stating that he possessed, in the "farther reaches
                    of philosophy, a few things up my sleeve that, if I choose to cheapen them by exploitation, would
                    make some of the so-called philosophers look like 30 cts."6
            
            During Cottman's early days in the field, history was, as Richard Hofstadter noted,
                    "the prerogative either of leisure-class gentlemen of commanding means or of a few hardy
                    spirits … who had the energy for other enterprises as well as history."7 In pursuing a dual interest in history and journalism, Cottman followed a path
                    first blazed in the Hoosier state by the "Father of Indiana History," John B.
                    Dillon, who wrote the respected History of Indiana (1843), worked as editor of the 
                        Logansport
                    
                    Canal Telegraph, and served as state librarian. It was a trail also followed by
                    Cottman's contemporaries, Jacob Piatt Dunn, Jr., Indiana historian, state librarian, and
                    reporter for a number of 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers (who called Cottman "a pleasing writer"8); Claude G. Bowers, 
                        Indianapolis
                     journalist, orator, and diplomat; and Albert J. Beveridge, Republican 
                        United States
                     senator.
            Cottman was one of those amateur historians who wrote history "for his own satisfaction or
                    for a public that would accept him on his own terms."9 He was unique in
                    that he relied on his own means in establishing a history journal, without the promise of financial
                    or staff support from a state historical agency.10 For example, the State
                    Historical Society of 
                        Iowa
                    , organized in 
                        Iowa City
                     in 1857, published between 1863 and 1874 twelve volumes of the historical quarterly
                        
                  
                     6 Alonzo Rice, "Some Indiana Writers," The Teacher's Journal, September 7, 1939, p. 158. A copy of this article
                            is located in the George S. Cottman Indiana Scrapbook Collection, vol. I, p. 103 (Indiana
                            Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     7 Richard Hofstadter, The Progressive Historians: Turner,
                                Beard, Parrington (
                                New York
                            , 1968), 11.
                  
                     8 Jacob Piatt Dunn, Jr., Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                : The History, the Industries, the Institutions, and the People of a City of
                                Homes (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1910), I, 399.
                  
                     9 John Higham, History: Professional Scholarship in
                                America (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1989), 7.
                  
                     10 The first notable commitment of funds to history in Indiana did not
                            come until 1915 when the Indiana General Assembly agreed to appropriate $25,000
                            and create a nine-member Indiana Historical Association for the promotion of the state
                            cencreate celebration. Of that $25,000 supplied by state government,
                            $20,000 went for the promotion of centennial activities with the remaining
                            $5,000 for collecting, editing, and publishing Indiana's history. See
                            Lana Ruegamer, A History of the Indiana Historical Society,
                            1830–1980 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1980), 102–105; Justin E. Walsh, The Centennial
                                History of the Indiana General Assembly, 1816–1978 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1987), 301–303; and Ray Boomhower, "Celebrating Statehood:
                            Indiana's 1916 Centennial," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                                History, III (Summer, 1991), 28–39.
               
                    
                    Annals of 
                            Iowa
                        . In 1893 a separate organization, the state-sponsored Historical Department of 
                        Iowa
                     in Des Moines, revived the periodical. Another state offering a historical magazine to
                    its citizens was the 
                        Ohio State
                     Archaeological and Historical Society that, in 1887, began the 
                  
                            Ohio
                         Archaeological and Historical Publications (later known as the 
                  
                            Ohio
                         Historical Quarterly).
               11 Cottman also was bucking a rising
                    national trend toward the professionalization of the study and writing of history. The late
                    nineteenth and early twentieth centuries saw the formation of such national organizations as the
                    American Historical Association (1884) and the Mississippi Valley Historical
                    Association (1907) and publications like the American Historical Review (1895).12
            
            Cottman accomplished the often hazardous venture of bringing a publication to life because he was
                    intensely committed to his task-preserving Indiana's history for the future. A matter as
                    simple as the kind of paper on which a book or pamphlet was printed could arouse his preservation
                    instincts. In praising Dunn's monograph The Word Hoosier, reviewed by
                    Cottman in the IMHs June, 1907, issue, he called attention to the cheap wood-pulp
                    stock on which it was printed. "The printing of matter of this sort on paper that will fall
                    to pieces inside of a generation seems to us a grave mistake, to say the least," he
                        proclaimed.13 Cottman could also, because of his various writings for 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers and the time and energy he put into such endeavors as the creation of the
                    Western Association of Writers, draw upon the talents of some of the leading figures of the
                    state's literary and artistic community.
            Lauded upon his death as a "true scholar,"14 Cottman was born
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on May 10, 1857, in a house at Market and 
                        Mississippi
                     streets, just a short distance from the Indiana statehouse. His father, John, was a
                    tailor by trade. In 1859, suffering an attack of gold fever, the senior Cottman went west to 
                        Colorado
                     accompanied by some 
                        Indianapolis
                     friends. Traveling part of the way by ox team, the Hoosier prospectors were nourished
                    by hardtack made by 
                        Indianapolis
                     baker Hugh Thompson. John Cottman returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                     a short time later with only enough gold to make three rings, one of which his son
                    George still had in his possession when he died. Other souvenirs from that Western trip, George
                    recalled, included a 
                  
                     11 Walter Muir Whitehill, Independent Historical
                                Societies: An Enquiry into their Research and Publication Functions and their Financial
                                Future (
                                Boston
                            , 1962), 275–76, 286. Other midwestern societies lagged behind
                            Cottman in beginning history magazines. The 
                                Minnesota
                             Historical Society began its 
                        
                                    Minnesota
                                 History Bulletin in 1915, and two years later the State Historical
                            Society of 
                                Wisconsin
                             launched the 
                        
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Magazine of History. Ibid., 263–64, 271.
                  
                     12 Higham, History, 8–21; Peter Novick,
                                That Noble Dream: The "Objectivity Question" and the
                                American Historical Profession (
                        Cambridge, England
                     , 1988), 4748.
                  
                     13 George S. Cottman, Notice on publication of The Word
                                Hoosier, Indiana Magazine of History, III (June, 1907), 95.
                  
                     14 "George S. Cottman," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 20, 1941.
               
                     Colt six-shooter and a buffalo-skin cap. Shortly after returning
                    from service as a quartermaster with the Nineteenth Regiment of Indiana Volunteers during the Civil
                    War, John Cottman moved his family, including ten-year-old George, to a farm near present-day 
                        Beech Grove
                    .15
            
            From 1873 until the early part of 1877, George Cottman learned the printing trade as an apprentice
                    with the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel. "I found," he said of those days, "that a
                    post-graduate course in a printing office, especially when supplemented by a good free public
                    library, played no small part in widening my mental horizon." Instead of a particular
                    college or university, Cottman considered himself an alumnus of the Sentinel, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Public Library, and the Indiana State Library.16 For Cottman, his
                    involvement in the printing trade was always a source of pride. Speaking before the Old-Time
                    Printers Association in 1927, he noted that no other profession could claim more honor than that of
                    the printer, whom he termed "the busy and boundless multiplier of intellectual light, the
                    disseminator of culture, rescuer and reflector of all the activities of the world." Every
                    library in the world, he added, stood as a monument to the printer's work.17
            
            Forced to return to the family farm in 
                        Beech Grove
                     because of his poor health (what ailment he suffered from is unclear, but print shops
                    were notorious for the noxious odors emanating from chemicals used in the printing process), Cottman
                    turned to a trade he found more conducive to his self-described "inborn
                    wanderlust"-writing. At an early age he discovered that he possessed a knack for creating
                    engaging compositions. Becoming a writer, he joked, offered to him "a pleasant substitute
                    for work."18 Later in life, however, Cottman admitted to a friend that
                    writing was "almost as essential to me as the bread of life."19 Putting pen to paper for a living also allowed Cottman to give free rein to a mania for
                    wandering that he shared with his father. Cottman's son, Evans, observed that his father
                    was "cursed with a dash of gypsy in his blood."20
            
            
               
                  15 George S. Cottman, "An Autobiography,"
                        131–36; Ruegamer, A History of the Indiana Historical Society,
                        98–100; William D. Dalton, "George S. Cottman," The
                            Encyclopedia of 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                   (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1994), 477–78; "George S. Cottman," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, May 19, 1941; "George S. Cottman Dead," 
                            Madison
                        
                        Courier, May 19, 1941; Rabb, "George S. Cottman," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, April 10, 1932.
               
                  16 Cottman, "An Autobiography," 131.
               
                  17 George S. Cottman, "The Art Preservative," paper read
                        before the Old-Time Printers Association, November 13, 1927 (Indiana State Library).
               
                  18 Cottman, "An Autobiography," 131–32.
               
                  19 George S. Cottman to Meredith Nicholson, August 29,1934, George S.
                        Cottman Papers (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library).
               
                  20 Evans W. Cottman, Out-Island Doctor, 8. Evans Cottman shared his
                        father's and grandfather's wanderlust. In the late 1930s the teacher had begun
                        to look for a way to escape the "hated Indiana winters." He found what he was
                        looking for in the out islands of the 
                            Bahamas
                         and purchased ten acres on Crooked Island. After retiring from teaching in 1945,
                        Cottman permanently located there with his wife, whom he had met while on a summer trip to the 
                            Bahamas
                        . Through the years the people on
            
            
            Unfortunately, Cottman experienced great difficulty in finding anyone willing to publish his early
                    manuscripts. One of his souvenirs from his time as a struggling writer, he later related to IMH readers, consisted of a scrapbook he kept filled with rejection slips
                    reflecting editors' various styles. Cottman even went so far as to journey to 
                        New York City
                    , reasoning that the direct application of his selfdescribed "magnetic
                    personality" would thaw the hearts of cold-hearted editors. The attempt failed; the
                    would-be writer had to find employment in a small print shop in order to earn enough money for the
                    trip back home to Indiana.21
            
            Cottman described the establishment in which he found work as a "delightful den, given over
                    entirely to cockroaches and to a class of printers more or less disreputable" and marked by
                    the smell of benzine mixed with the odor of tobacco plugs scattered about the shop floor. This shop
                    printed cheap novels and a weekly publication featuring romance stories aimed at working women in
                    the city. Cottman earned just twenty-five cents per thousand words for his work as a typesetter, but
                    his greatest reward came in discovering a character he used as the basis for an article published in
                        The Lotus. The piece focused on Cottman's dealings with a female
                    employee in the shop. Nicknamed "Rose Marie" by her male compatriots, she set type
                    and produced a potboiler, entitled "The Spirit Lover; or, Viola's Grief and
                    Joy," for the print office's romance periodical. Described by Cottman as
                    "fragile, of a nervous temperament, with a face full of sensibility, and the abstract air
                    of one whose thoughts were perpetually elsewhere," the woman based her heroine's
                    tale of woe on her own tragic life, which Cottman skillfully and sensitively portrayed in his
                        story.22
            
            Returning to Indiana in 1888, Cottman, his mother, and father moved to 
                        Irvington
                    , where father and son together built a home for the family, one which later sheltered
                    George Cottman's wife and son. The move to 
                        Irvington
                    , a planned community located on the far east side of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and named for the writer 
                        Washington
                     Irving, might have been precipitated by Cottman's sometimes poor health.
                    Modeled after 
                  Glendale, Ohio
               , a 
                        Cincinnati
                     suburb, the community was relatively free of factories, Evans Cottman recalled, and
                    therefore had little health-risking smoke and pollution.23 Perhaps as a way
                        
                  surrounding islands, far from a doctor's care, turned to the former science
                            teacher for medical assistance. Cottman, who died on February 15, 1976, at Marsh Harbor in
                            the 
                                Bahamas
                            , detailed his experiences in the Atlantic islands southeast of 
                                Florida
                             in the book Out-Island Doctor. See also John Dorschner,
                            "Second Life on a Tropic Isle," 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Star Magazine, September 12, 1971.
                  
                     21 Cottman, "An Autobiography," 132.
                  
                     22 George S. Cottman, "Rose Marie," The
                                Lotus, II (October, 1896), 189–91.
                  
                     23 From the Notes of Evans Cottman, compiled and edited by Larry
                            Muncie and published under the title Oh Little Town of 
                                    Irvington
                                : Early Twentieth Century 
                                    Irvington
                                 as Seen Through the Eyes of a Small Boy (
                                Irvington
                            , Ind., 1990), 8–9. See also Robert M. Taylor, Jr., et
                                al., eds., Indiana: A New Historical Guide (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1989), 421.
               
                     to improve his often unsteady health, Cottman frequently made
                    forays into the woods near his home, a practice he recommended to others. On these "common
                    country strolls," as Cottman called them, he advised those wishing to escape the hubbub of
                    city life to discover the "countless things of interest that dwell in
                    'commonplace' surroundings." Finding these commonplace items of
                    nature-spider webs clinging to blades of grass, the sound of songbirds, or brightly colored fruit
                    growing on bushes-stood as the "great secret of the love of outdoors-a love that grows by
                    what it feeds upon," said Cottman. "It has been happily spoken of as 'The
                    harvest of a quiet eye.'"24
            
            Canoe trips up and down Indiana's waterways, especially the Tippecanoe
                    River, also revitalized Cottman's spirits. On these journeys down a fast-flowing
                    waterway, Cottman could put aside his cares and experience the sensation of having all his faculties
                    sharply focused. He realized that there existed the possibility of an "ignominious
                    wreck" somewhere along the way, but his mastery of the craft converted
                    "apprehension into a feeling of perpetual delight" as he overcame obstacles in his
                    path. "To feel the little craft beneath you gather speed like a thing of life as you ride
                    into the jaws of a building rapid," he rhapsodized, "to go driving like an arrow
                    down the bosom of a deep, narrow torrent with Scylla and Charybdis raging on either hand, to be
                    borne in triumph into the smooth stretches beyond-this is a thing to live over in memory and talk
                    about in after days."25
            
            In order to share his outdoor experiences with the reading public and to circumvent what he perceived
                    as the "autocracy of the editors,"26 Cottman invested in a
                    one-man print shop, which he installed in his family's 
                        Irvington
                     home. While making his living as a job printer, Cottman also published his own nature
                    writings. In 1890 he printed and distributed a collection of sketches called Hours with
                        Nature, which he sold for twenty-five cents a copy. Three years later he produced another
                    collection of outdoor writings, Vacation Gleanings, which detailed his travels to
                    such rustic settings as the Hudson Highlands, the Catskill Mountains, and
                        Lake Oneida in 
                        New York
                    . Cottman printed other pamphlets and even a play, "Love the
                    Sovereign," a drama released in 1900 that drew upon his adventures with nature. Fellow
                    Hoosier writer Booth Tarkington commended the effort as "full of surprises and poetry
                    … gayety and good thinking."27 Also impressed by
                    Cottman's talent as a writer was Albert J. Beveridge, author of such noted historical works
                    as the four-volume Life of John Marshall (1916–1919). Commenting on a
                    collection of nature articles that Cottman had sent him, the Hoosier politician lavishly praised
                        
                  
                     24 "A Little Journey through Wood and Field," 
                                Indianapolis
                             News, November 15, 1902.
                  
                     25 George S. Cottman, Vacation Gleanings (
                                Irvington
                            , Ind., 1893), 12–14.
                  
                     26 Cottman, "An Autobiography," 132.
                  
                     27 Rabb, "George S. Cottman," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, April 10, 1932.
               
                     it as "full of a delicate sensitiveness as fascinating
                    as it is rare. Why in the world do you not do more like this? America-the world-is waiting for
                    somebody who can interpret Nature to us." Beveridge went on to note that more than any
                    person he had read, Cottman was "fitted to be the interpreter of the spirit of Nature to
                    this age of iron and clay."28 Despite these positive reviews, Cottman
                    discovered that the monetary rewards for his self-published works "were so disproportionate
                    to the time and labor involved that I found it best to forego further efforts."29
            
            Fortunately for Cottman, it was also during this time that he began to have better luck with 
                        Indianapolis
                     editors than he had ever had with what he called the "haughty publishers of
                    the effete East." As a freelance writer, he contributed articles to the Indiana Farmer, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal (a publication Cottman called "one of the best journalistic
                    friends Indiana writers ever had"), the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News, and the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Press. In writing for local newspapers, he found that there was always a ready market
                    for historical articles. "As a newspaper space filler ever in search of good
                    copy," he said, "I found that few special topics offered a richer mine than does
                    history with its veins of romance, adventure, human interest stories, or what you will."
                    But because newspapers, according to Cottman, often cared only for the story in writing of this kind
                    and seldom bothered with its truth, he, as a writer who respected his own honesty, had to be careful
                    to resist the temptation to "substitute loose statements or downright fiction for
                    fact." If history is robbed of its truth, Cottman added, "Clio no longer has a
                        message."30
            
            Traveling around the state in pursuit of material for his newspaper articles on Indiana history,
                    Cottman used a popular means of transportation at the turn of the century-a bicycle. The
                    printercum-writer soon became a familiar site to many Hoosiers. The 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier recalled a time in 1888 when Cottman journeyed to 
                        Jefferson County
                     and in this instance not having his bicycle handy instead rode horseback all over the
                    county interviewing longtime residents in search of interesting tidbits for his work.31 His statewide travels produced such articles as "Historical Documents the
                    State Should Own and Preserve," "Facts Generally Not Known About the
                    State," "Stories of Pioneer Boys," "The Haunted Farm,"
                    and countless others.
            As his writing became better known, Cottman took a more lively interest in the state's
                    literary and artistic affairs. He was a leading figure in the development of the Western Association
                    of Writers (WAW), an organization that had its start in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1886 
                  
                     28 Albert J. Beveridge to Cottman, March 1, 1898, Cottman Papers.
                  
                     29 Cottman, "An Autobiography," 133.
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., 133–34.
                  
                     31 "George S. Cottman Dead," 
                                Madison
                            
                            Courier, May 19, 1941.
               
                     and devoted itself to promoting "acquaintance and
                    friendship among the literary fraternity." The group, which was dominated throughout its
                    approximately twenty-year existence by Hoosier authors, also worked to protect writers against
                    so-called "piratical publishers."32 Cottman became close
                    friends with some of the giants of the Golden Age of Indiana Literature, including James Whitcomb
                    Riley. It was from a Riley verse that Cottman took as a slogan for his life's work
                    "And it's the man that does the best; That gets more kicks than all the
                    rest." Cottman also associated with such "Hoosier Group" painters as T.
                    C. Steele, William Forsyth, and Otto Stark. Forsyth was also a fellow member of an 
                        Irvington
                     group known as the Parhesian Club, composed of couples who met in each other's
                    homes to discuss and debate various issues.33 Cottman drew upon the friendships
                    that he had made through the WAW and other cultural organizations when he started the IMH. Scattered throughout the state, his friends served as contacts for possible
                    subscription sales and as writers and illustrators for articles in his magazine.
            Through his work on behalf of the WAW, and his own success as a writer, Cottman became a mentor of
                    sorts to other would-be Hoosier authors. In 1896 a struggling columnist for the 
                        Rockville
                    
                    Tribune, Juliet Strauss, who during the early 1900s became famous for her
                    detailing of the joys and sorrows of domestic life in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News and Ladies' Home Journal, wrote Cottman asking for
                    his opinion on a few stories she had written. In the correspondence that ensued, the 
                        Irvington
                     printer grasped the opportunity to expound on the state's literary standing.
                    To Cottman, Indiana literature had, through the works of successful vernacular writers like Riley
                    and Edward Eggleston, depicted the Hoosier state as a "commonwealth of mud-sills."
                    Although the two writers had no doubt accurately portrayed 
                  
                     32 Harriet Adams Sawyer, "The Western Association of Writers:
                            Some Impressions Received at its Recent Convention held at 
                        Dayton, Ohio
                     ," The Chaperone, VIII (August, 1892),
                            434. See also George S. Cottman, "The Western Association of Writers: A Literary
                            Reminiscence," Indiana Magazine of History, XXLX (September,
                            1933), 187–97. A regular attendee at the WAW's annual gatherings,
                            Cottman also joined a subset of the group called "Ye Owl Club," the
                            function of which was to "recuperate its members after the severe celebrations of
                            the day" with sessions beginning late at night. Led by the Most Grand Hoo! Hoo!,
                            the members of the club, which set dues at one cent a year, had to be ready, whenever the
                            Most Grand Hoo! Hoo! commanded, to contribute "an impromptu song, story,
                            recitation, hoot or other recuperative diversion." Cottman, "The Western
                            Association of Writers," 196–97.
                  
                     33 Evans Cottman, Oh Little Town of 
                                    Irvington
                                , 32. Year after year, Evans Cottman noted, his father, in spite of his
                            efforts to pass on the job to someone else, was unanimously elected president of the
                            Parhesian Club. One year, when the club's meeting was held at the Cottman
                            residence, George Cottman nominated Dr. Harry Hill to serve as president. When Forsyth
                            renominated Cottman, the rest of the club members booed lustily and called for
                            Cottman's removal. When the votes were counted, Evans Cottman recalled, Dr. Hill
                            received one vote (that of his father), and George Cottman garnered all the rest.
                            "The whole thing had been planned in advance, that is, everything except my
                            father's nomination of Dr. Hill," said Evans Cottman. "He really
                            meant that and didn't realize what had been going on until the ballot box was
                            opened." Ibid., 32–33.
               
                     trayed certain types indigenous to Indiana, Cottman wrote
                    Strauss, those characters "do not adequately stand for the state at large, either now nor
                    at any past time. Our writers have, so far, failed to point out that there have been and are other
                    equally interesting phases of life." He longed for a writer who could capture the
                    "world of romance" that had existed in the Ohio and
                        Wabash valleys and the picturesque character of the state's early
                    population, "made up, as they were, not only of pioneers of the ax and rifle, but
                    'jurists and statesmen, and ladies and gentlemen, of the old school.'"34
            
            According to Cottman, to produce a successful piece of writing an author had to learn the
                    "art of discarding whatever is irrelevant." He observed, "Art-or, to be
                    more specific, the story-is realismthe objective facts plus the imagination of the artist who, out
                    of a sense of harmony, proportion, fitness, beauty, combines those facts to serve his own purpose,
                    and impressing into them meanings of his own."35
            
            Cottman had learned about the "picturesque character" of the state's early
                    population by traveling the back roads of Indiana and discovering hidden away in private collections
                    historical treasures that should have been preserved in public archives. For years Cottman had
                    badgered Indiana's governmental leaders to take an interest in these materials before time
                    and circumstance destroyed them. He constantly derided the state's laxness in preserving
                    its past, noting that before 1873 the Indiana State Library "was about as poor an apology
                    for a state institution as we have ever had." He termed the office of librarian
                    "partly a joke, partly a political plum."36 To
                    Cottman's way of thinking the Indiana Historical Society, an independent organization that
                    had been in existence since 1830, offered no solution to the problem. Although he noted that the
                    society had "a tenacity of life equal to that of the Democratic party," it was
                    nevertheless "a homeless nomad unprepared to do more than hold occasional meetings and
                    publish monographs when there chanced to be a little money in the treasury."37
            
            Cottman considered the collection and preservation of the state's historic documents a
                    serious business. It exhibited, he claimed, a "mark of low intelligence when a people takes
                    no interest in its antecedents, and a sign of ingratitude when the services of the fathers are
                    consigned to oblivion." On countless occasions, according to Cottman, Indiana officials had
                    thoughtlessly lost or misplaced state papers. Early records of the state and Indiana Territory, for
                    example, 
                  
                     34 Cottman to Juliet Strauss, September 23, 1896, Cottman Papers.
                  
                            35
                            lbid.
                        
                  
                     36 "Women and the State Library," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, November 20, 1916.
                  
                     37 Cottman, "The Indiana Magazine of History," 282.
                            These were the days, of course, when the society was a small, elite institution with members
                            elected by secret ballot. By 1906 there were only eighty-seven regular members and ten
                            honorary ones-a far cry from today's approximately 11,000-member
                        organization.
               
                     had been destroyed as rubbish by those, as one Corydon resident
                    described them, who "were not more fit for their business than hogs for a parlor."
                    Cottman also noted that when the old Governor's Mansion on the Circle in 
                        Indianapolis
                     had been demolished, papers stored there "were strewn about the yard like
                    autumn leaves."38
            
            Faced with these facts, Cottman determined that a periodical devoted to Indiana history might aid in
                    preserving historical material and serve to spark in Hoosiers a genuine interest in their past.
                    Something of that sort had been attempted once before. In December, 1897, there appeared the first
                    issue of The Indianian, an 
                        Indianapolis
                    -based, semimonthly magazine devoted to matters of interest to township trustees. In the
                    fall of 1898, William H. Smith, later the author of The History of the State of
                    Indiana… (1903), began editing a historical department in the publication. By the
                    summer of 1899 Smith had taken over as editor and had turned The Indianian into an
                    illustrated magazine intended to provide historical material for school administrators, teachers,
                    and students. Although the magazine was "got out in good style, with excellent
                    illustrations and descriptive articles of various counties and other interesting historical
                    matter," said Dunn in his history of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the publication failed because of a lack of subscribers. Smith was ousted as editor in
                    October, 1900, and the magazine ceased publication two months later.39
            
            Undaunted by The Indianian's failure or the fact that the state government
                    was unlikely to provide funding for his venture, Cottman was determined to publish his own magazine.
                    He noted that The Indianian had to pay for staff-an editor, business manager, and
                    printer-and for articles. Cottman eliminated these expenses by writing most of the material that
                    appeared in the magazine and printing it himself. He did, however, have some help in launching his
                    history periodical. William E. Henry, head of the Indiana State Library, offered to encourage his
                    friends to subscribe to the publication, and Forsyth volunteered to produce a decorative border
                    design for the magazine's cover. Also, Hilton Brown of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News offered to reproduce, either in half-tones or zinc etchings, any
                    illustrations Cottman might want to use. Each potential subscriber received a
                    "Prospectus," which had been prepared by Cottman and which included the
                    editor's code for his new historic venture: 
                        The publication will be strictly what it purports to be at the start-a magazine devoted to
                            the preservation and collating of matter that is of real value to the historical student.
                            There will be no space given to advertising "write-ups," and no cheap
                            padding. Of matter within its legitimate field there is an abundance, and outside of this
                            field it will make no bid for popular favor.40
                  
                    
                
            
               
                  38 George S. Cottman letter to editor, "Preservation of Indiana
                        History," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, January 7, 1898.
               
                  39 Dunn, Greater 
                                Indianapolis
                            , I, 199.
               
                  40 George S. Cottman, "Our Reasons for Being," Indiana Magazine of History, I (First Quarter, 1905), 2.
            
            
            Cottman went on to outline six objectives that, for the most part, continue to guide the IMH: the seeking out and publication of documents with a historical value; the reprinting
                    of valuable and interesting matter previously buried away and practically lost in old newspaper
                    files; the creation of a department of bibliography that would include historical material scattered
                    throughout periodicals and local histories, along with any new articles published on Indiana
                    history; the binding together of the state's various local historical societies as well as
                    the encouragement and promotion of other such societies; the publication of original studies in
                    Indiana history by "careful and trustworthy" students; and the promotion of
                    history work among school teachers.41
            
            In addition to providing a vehicle for preserving Indiana's history, Cottman's
                    venture offered a more ego-enhancing opportunity for its creator. For an article he wrote on the IMH's twenty-fifth anniversary, Cottman admitted that part of what lured
                    him into starting the magazine was not only that it might "edify all who partook of its
                    quarterly doses" but also that it "would perpetuate the memory of myself, who
                    otherwise was in danger of getting lost in time's shuffle." Most folks used
                    tombstones for continuing their name after they had died, he went on, but to him.a tombstone seemed
                    an "unprofitable investment owing to the brevity of the reading matter and the few who read
                    even that." A history magazine, however, was placed in archives and examined repeatedly.
                    "Generations of students can not help seeing one's name on the title page, or
                    wherever it may chance to be printed, and what more could be desired by a ghostly
                    'has-been' after he has ceased to function?" asked Cottman.42
            
            Encouraged by the response to his Prospectus, Cottman launched his creation in the spring of 1905 as
                        The Indiana Quarterly Magazine of History. He printed one thousand copies of
                    this first number and charged one dollar a year for a subscription or thirty cents for a single
                    copy. The first issue featured articles, most written by Cottman, on the "Father of Indiana
                    History," John Brown Dillon; the teaching of history in Hoosier elementary schools; and
                    Indian towns in 
                        Marion County
                    . Included also were a list of Indiana newspapers that were located in the state library
                    and the journal, presumably edited by Cottman, of John Tipton, one of the commissioners appointed to
                    select the site of the state capital. There was one article mentioned in the table of contents that
                    was missing from most issues of the magazine-a piece entitled "A Word from the
                    Factotum." This short article-termed a "facetious effusion" by
                    Cottman-humorously relayed the trials and tribulations faced by the editor in readying the magazine
                    for publication. He apologized for any errors, noting: "To pump off something more than
                    thirty thousand impressions on 
                  
                     41
                            bid., 2–3.
                  
                     42 Cottman, "The Indiana Magazine of History,"
                        283.
               
                    
                    
                     a foot-power job press, applying ink with a hand brayer; to edit
                    in the midst of mechanical perplexities; to make up copy, while standing at the case in order to
                    spare the time necessary for writing itthese things, are not conducive to perfect
                        results."43 Cottman's wife, Vida, who had folded and
                    collated countless printed sheets for the IMH, was not amused by her
                    husband's stab at humor. She pointed out, as her husband later noted, that "this
                    magazine was nothing if not dignified, and that such levity was not dignified."44 Bowing to his wife's wishes, Cottman cut the piece from all but a
                    few issues of the magazine. He later reprinted it in full for the IMH's
                    twenty-fifth anniversary.
            After the first issue Cottman realized that serving as both editor and printer for the magazine was
                    more than he had bargained for; for example, to avoid the red tape involved with securing a
                    secondclass mailing permit, he went so far as to deliver most of the magazines to 
                        Indianapolis
                     subscribers by hand. To ease his heavy burdens somewhat, Cottman farmed out the
                    magazine's printing to Edward Heckler of 
                        Irvington
                    .45
            
            In order to raise desperately needed funds to continue publication, the editor inaugurated what is a
                    common practice for many historical journals; that is, he sold advertising space. Advertisers in
                    these early issues included rare book dealers, the Bobbs-Merrill Company, Indiana University, and 
                        Butler
                     College. A few, however, seemed out of place in a history periodical. Making an
                    appearance in the IMH's pages was an advertisement for the Blickensderfer
                    Manufacturing Company of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , which proclaimed that "You Can Make Big Money Selling Typewriters."
                    Also, Florien C. Fry, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     insurance agent, issued to the magazine's readers the following warning:
                    "Do you know what proportion of people who travel or go on vacation get hurt or catch
                    disease? Investigate and be surprised. A policy covering all diseases and accidents may be purchased
                    at a very small cost."46
            
            At the end of the first year, the subscriber list for the IMH stood at
                    approximately three hundred. The small circulation "barely paid expenses," said
                    Cottman. The editor noted that the magazine would have ceased publication if not for "the
                    friendly aid of several wellwishers who added to their personal subscriptions a number of extra
                        ones."47 Even authors of articles in the magazine acted as sales
                    agents. Benjamin Parker, a 
                        New Castle
                     poet, fellow WAW member, and frequent 
                  
                     43
                            bid., 285.
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., 284,285–86.
                  
                     45
                            Ibid., 286. See also Lynch, "A History of the Indiana Magazine of History," 5.
                  
                     46 Back Cover, Indiana Magazine of History, II
                            (March, 1906).
                  
                     47 "Editorial and Miscellaneous," ibid., II (June, 1906), 100. Among those who supported Cottman were Henry, state
                            librarian; J. Frank Hanly, Indiana governor; John H. Holliday, 
                                Indianapolis
                             News founder; and James A. Woodburn, Indiana University professor of history.
                                Ibid.
                  
               
                     contributor to the IMH, wrote Cottman in 1907
                    that he had shown a recent issue of the magazine to a friend who had stopped by to visit. When she
                    rose to leave, she asked Parker for some change so that she could subscribe to the magazine for a
                    year. "I think that I may be able to send you some [more] subscribers," Parker
                    told Cottman, "if I can ever strike a time when the necessary strength and opportunity
                    coincide, as I certainly hope to do."48 In spite of these efforts on
                    his behalf, the hard work involved in managing the IMH took its toll on
                    Cottman's health. It may have even contributed to his decision at the end of 1907 to move
                    his family from Indiana to the Pacific Northwest. Cottman settled in the small town of Vaughn, 
                        Washington
                    , in search, he said, of a "more congenial climate."49
            
            During the two years that Cottman was in 
                        Washington
                    , Christopher B. Coleman, then a member of the history department at 
                        Butler
                     University and later director of the Indiana Historical Bureau and secretary of the
                    Indiana Historical Society, took over as IMH editor. Demarchus Brown, state
                    librarian, served as business manager. Before Cottman left, the magazine had received a shot in the
                    arm from the society, which had pledged an amount not to exceed $150 to ensure the
                    publication's continued existence.50 That cooperation between the
                    society and the IMH still exists today as every IHS member is entitled to receive
                    a subscription to the magazine.
            By the summer of 1910 Cottman had returned to his native state. When Coleman left Indiana in 1911 to
                    pursue graduate work at 
                        Columbia
                     University, Cottman once again took over as IMH editor. He continued
                    in that post until 1913, when the responsibility for publishing the magazine was turned over to
                    Indiana University's history department. It was an amicable change. Cottman admitted to
                    James A. Woodburn, chairman of the department, that he could not keep up with the rigors of
                    publishing the magazine. Woodburn agreed to take over the IMH "for a year
                    or two to see what we can do with it." He wrote Cottman that he envisioned enlarging the
                    magazine and bringing it "more in touch with the High Schools of the State." The
                    I.U. professor did express some worry that Cottman might feel usurped by the change, but the printer
                    pointed out that the "proposed change will, beyond doubt, much improve the magazine, and
                    that is the first consideration."51 The March, 1913, IMH was the last issue under Cottman's guiding hand. Logan Esarey, a new member of
                    the I.U. history faculty, began his tenure as editor with the June, 1913, issue.
            Although Cottman had given up his editorship of the IMH, he did not give up his
                    interest in the Hoosier state's past. He wrote historical 
                  
                     48 Benjamin Parker to Cottman, March 22, 1907, Cottman Papers.
                  
                     49 Rice, "Some Indiana Writers," 158.
                  
                     50 Ruegamer, A History of the Indiana Historical Society, 100.
                  
                     51 Woodburn to Cottman, February 22,1913, Cottman Papers; Cottman to
                            Woodburn, February 24, 1913, ibid.
                  
               
                    
                    
                  GEORGE S. COTTMAN IN HIS MADISON, INDIANA, HOME
                  
                  PHOTOGRAPH TAKEN BY CHARLES M. LOWRY OF MADISON FOR AN INDIANAPOLIS
                            STAR
                      ARTICLE BY KATE MILNER RABB THAT APPEARED ON APRIL 10, 1932
                  Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                pageants for the 1916 Indiana centennial celebration, produced a history of the state that
                    was widely used in schools, and wrote brochures outlining the history of the Corydon Capitol and the
                    Dunes, Clifty Falls, and Pokagan state parks. In 1919 he became director of the 
                        Jefferson County
                     Historical Society and also served as curator at the James F. D. Lanier Mansion in 
                        Madison
                    . Cottman formally retired" in 1931, and he and his wife lived with their son
                    in a home on a hilltop overlooking the Ohio River in 
                        Madison
                    . That same year he donated to the Indiana State Library historical material, today
                    known as the Cottman Scrapbook Collection, that he had assembled throughout his life. Reflecting on
                    his twilight years, the former editor displayed the same rueful humor that had lifted his spirits in
                    earlier days: "How do I pass the time?" he asked. "Making light as I can
                    of my disabling ailments, dreaming of past days when I could at least make a stagger at doing
                    things, and watching the ebbing tide of time while solving the problems of the Cosmos-for several of
                         which I have not yet evolved answers."52 Cottman died, at the age of eighty-four, on May 18, 1941.
            Eulogizing his fellow editor in the pages of the IMH, Coleman noted that although
                    Cottman lacked formal training he possessed a historian's most essential
                    qualities-"appreciation of what has been done in the past, passion for accuracy, and
                    willingness to go through tedious research."53 Cottman would
                    undoubtedly have appreciated such high praise had he been around to read it. Years earlier, however,
                    Cottman had confessed to possibly greater satisfaction when he contemplated the shelves in his
                    library devoted to the IMH's many volumes. On those occasions the editor
                    felt "a little glow of pride," realizing that numerous students and scholars of
                    Indiana history had been stimulated to write, research, and publish because of his creation. The
                    magazine had done "better than I had dared to hope for," Cottman said. "I
                    am satisfied."54
            
            
               
                  52 Cottman, "An Autobiography," 135–36.
               
                  53 Christopher B. Coleman, "George S. Cottman," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXVII (June, 1941), 159.
               
                  54 Cottman, "The Indiana Magazine of History,"
                    287.
            
         
         
         
            Editor's Note
            The two articles that follow both deal with the murder of Indians that occurred in 1824 on Deer Lick
                    Creek in 
                        Madison County
                    . The first by Brian M. Doerr presents the fullest description thus far of that
                    unfortunate incident in early Indiana history. Doerr's treatment is notable for his
                    meticulous recounting of the slaughter itself and for his examination of the events that followed.
                    Though the murders on their face seem entirely consistent with the lamentable history of
                    Indian-white relations generally, the pursuit, prosecution, and trial of the murderers add a measure
                    of complexity to an otherwise conventional story. And it is a good story, well told and important
                    for a fuller picture of life in the Indiana backcountry as the frontiersmen made the transition to
                    more settled conditions. In the second piece R. David Edmunds comments more broadly on the events by
                    tracing the Indian hunters from their 
                        Ohio
                     homes and describing the historical background of the episode.
         
         
         
            The Massacre at Deer Lick Creek, 
                        Madison County
                    , Indiana, 1824*
            
            
                    Brian M. Doerr
                    **
                
            The land drained by Fall Creek and Deer Lick Creek in central Indiana had begun to see considerable
                    change by the spring of 1824. White settlers, no longer fearful of Indian conflict, penetrated this
                    wild country ever more frequently in search of land to farm. Their cabins, "rude and
                    unfinished, with a slab for a door, split puncheons for floors, and sticks daubed with mud for
                    chimneys," became a more common sight in these deep Indiana woods.1
                    Although there were no roads or bridges for miles, enough men and women had come to this part of the
                    state to warrant the establishment of a county government. Therefore, in November of 1823, in a
                    small settlement called "the falls on 
                        Fall Creek
                    ," a group of men gathered to organize 
                        Madison County
                     in accordance with an act passed by the Indiana General Assembly in May. The population
                    of this young county in 1824 could scarcely have been more than two hundred families; that is, if
                    you did not count the Indians.2
            
            Although there remained a substantial population of Indians in the state, the Indian wars in Indiana
                    had come to an end by 1824. The American pioneer and the retreating Indian coexisted somewhat
                    peacefully following the War of 1812. Even in the village at the falls, a county merchant stocked a
                    number of items such as beads, brooches, tinware, and other trinkets that were used in the fur and
                    hide trade with the local Indians. In addition, a number of early pioneers and Indians enjoyed a
                    considerable friendship.3
            
            In the fall of 1823 three Seneca Indian men, known to white settlers as Logan, Ludlow, and
                    M'Doal, brought their families (three women, two ten-year-old boys, and two younger girls)
                    to the "Big 
                  
                     * The murders that occurred at Deer Lick Creek in 
                                Madison County
                            , Indiana, in 1824 have often been mistakenly referred to as the 
                                Fall Creek
                             massacre. Jessamyn West's best-selling fictional account, The 
                                    Fall Creek
                                 Massacre (1974), is one of the most recent works to employ this title.
                  
                     ** Brian M. Doerr, a native of 
                                Madison County
                            , Indiana, formerly served on the staff of the Indiana House of Representatives
                            in 
                                Indianapolis
                             and on that of Senator Richard G. Lugar in 
                                Washington
                            , D.C. He is currently a seminarian at the Pontifical College Josephinum,
                                    
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     .
                  
                     1 Thomas B. Helm, History of 
                                    Madison County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1880), 96.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, June 5, 1824; Indiana, Laws (1823),
                            94–97.
                  
                     3 Helm, History of 
                                    Madison County
                                , 100; Anderson Democrat, May 1, 1874.
               
                    
                    
                  THE FALLS ON FALL CREEK
                  
                  FORMERLY EIGIT FEET IN HEIGHT, THE FALLS ARE PICTURED HERE SOMETIME AFTER 1864 WHEN A MILL DAM WAS MADE ON THE ROCK LEDGE
                                IMMEDIATELY ABOVE THE FALLS. BEFORE
                                1909 THE DAM WAS REMOVED AND
                                THE LEDGE PARTIALLY CUT
                                BACK, LEAVING THE FALLS LESS SPECTACULAR IN APPEARANCE.
                  Reproduced from Jacob Piatt Dunn, True Indian
                            Stories… (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1909), 207.
                Lick," about nine miles east of the falls on 
                        Fall Creek
                    , to pass the winter hunting and trapping. The camp was situated within a
                    stone's throw of the south bank of Deer Lick Creek, a small gently flowing stream that was
                    formed by a series of mineral springs and meandered through the southern region of the newly formed 
                        Madison County
                    . The land called the Big Lick by both Indians and settlers encompassed most of the
                    swamps and forests that were drained by the headwaters of this creek. Because the rocks in Deer Lick
                    Creek were constantly washed by the mineral-rich water, animals frequented the site, and the
                    resultant abundance of game in the area was undoubtedly the reason these three Indian men and their
                    families decided to make camp there.
            Not much is known about the Seneca people who came to the Big Lick in November, 1823, although
                    wintering in that location was apparently an accepted family tradition. Every fall these Indians
                    left their home village of Lewis Town in the northwest region of 
                        Ohio
                     and established their base camp at the Big Lick. Here, the families spent the winter
                    while the men hunted and trapped in the surrounding 
                    
                  MADISON COUNTY, INDIANA, 1824–1827
                  Map prepared by Graphics Services, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , based on map in George Pence and Nellie C. Armstrong, Indiana
                                Boundaries: Territory, State, and County (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XIX; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1933), 573.
               
                     area. With the close of winter the Senecas returned to the 
                        Ohio country
                     and spent the spring and summer months supplementing their existence by farming as they
                    had done since the middle of the eighteenth century.4
            
            Logan, a subordinate chief of the Seneca Indians, and his clan were friendly, worked hard, and, since
                    encamping at the Big Lick the previous fall, had enjoyed good relations with their white neighbors,
                    who were sensible of the Indians' amiable disposition and orderly conduct. The men had had
                    a productive winter running their traps, and as soon as the women finished making their maple sugar,
                    they planned quietly to depart from this area.5 Little did they expect that
                    death would intervene.
            Not far from Logan's camp recent settlers from the state of 
                        Ohio
                     set about clearing their newly claimed farmland. Most notable among them was John T.
                    Bridge who was born in 
                  Boston, Massachusetts
               , around 1778 and was the son of a distinguished
                    Revolutionary War soldier. When old enough to seek his fortune, Bridge emigrated to 
                        Hamilton County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , and soon thereafter married Mary Harper. Their marriage produced nine children.
                    Stability, however, did not seem to be a part of their lives, and the Bridge family moved several
                    times to and from 
                  Ohio, Kentucky
               , and Indiana. In the fall of 1819 Bridge took his
                    family to the wilderness of Indiana where two years later his wife suddenly died. The possibility
                    exists that John T. Bridge then married Andrew Sawyer's sister, but that fact, to date,
                    cannot be proven. Bridge was a tall, slender man, his age made somewhat apparent by his balding head
                    and bending posture. He usually wore a brown coat and tow linen pantaloons. He lived as a decent
                    citizen and even contributed to the organization of the county.6
            
            Bridge's neighbors included his brother-in-law, Andrew Sawyer, and James Hudson. Little is
                    known about Sawyer and his family. Sawyer himself was said to have had a "rather dark
                    complexion," to have spoken Dutch, and to have been somewhat hard of hearing. He was
                    usually seen in his blue linsey coat, blue linsey hunting shirt, and linen pantaloons.7 James Hudson was born in 
                        Baltimore County
                    , 
                  
                     4
                            Handbook of North American Indians; Vol. XV, Northeast (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1978), 537, 539; John Johnston to Lewis Cass, May 13,1824, Records of
                            the 
                                Michigan
                             Superintendency, 1814–1851, Records of the Bureau of Indian Affairs,
                            Record Group 75, National Archives Microfilm Publication Ml, roll 14 (hereafter cited as 
                                Michigan
                             Superintendency, Ml, roll 14); 
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Indiana Gazette, November 13,1824.
                  
                     5 John Johnston, "Recollections of Sixty Years," in
                                John Johnston and the Indians in the Land of the Three Miamis, ed.
                            Leonard U. Hill (
                        Piqua, Ohio
                     , 1957), 162.
                  
                     6 Family records in the possession of Marilyn Bridge Brown; History of 
                                    Carroll County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1882), 247; John L. Forkner and Byron H. Dyson, Historical
                                Sketches and Reminiscences of 
                                    Madison County
                                , Indiana … (Anderson, Ind., 1897), 27; 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, July 10, 1824; Sandford C. Cox, Recollections
                                of the Early Settlement of the Wabash Valley
                      … (
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind., 1860), 9; Oliver H. Smith, Early Indiana Trials and
                                Sketches: Reminiscences (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1858), 51.
                  
                     7
                            
                                Richmond
                             Public Leger, July 10, 1824; Cox, Recollections of the Early
                                Settlement of the Wabash Valley, 9; Helen Thurman,
                            "The 
                                Fall Creek
                             Tragedy," Indiana Magazine of History, XXVII
                            (September, 1931), 231–32.
               
                    
                    
                        Maryland
                    , in April of 1796. Shortly thereafter, his father and mother moved their family to 
                        Kentucky
                    . When Hudson reached the age of fifteen, he migrated to 
                        Champaign County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . He was married at the age of twenty-four to Phebe Croom, began a family, and moved
                    them to Indiana sometime after 1820. He was of average height for a man of his era and had a full
                    red face, crooked nose, blue eyes, and bushy hair. As was true of many of the settlers in the area,
                    Hudson's constant companion was his rifle.8
            
            There is very little to indicate how these pioneer men felt about the Indian population in general or
                    how they felt about the proximity of the Seneca camp on Deer Lick Creek. There are indications that
                    the two groups were aquainted with each other. Hudson seemed to harbor reservations about Ludlow and
                    would later accuse him of threatening his wife. He also insisted that Ludlow had angrily complained
                    that the whites in the vicinity had been disturbing his traps. These accusations, however, remain
                        unsubstantiated.9
            
            The scene is set, then, during the rainy month of March, 1824, for the untimely visit of a man named
                    Thomas Harper. No one in the 
                        Madison County
                     area had much good to say about Harper. He was described as a roving character who had
                    spent much of his life on the frontier. Some claimed that he once boasted "it was no worse
                    to kill an Indian than to kill a deer."10 Whether he said it or not is
                    unknown. Harper did seem to hate his Indian neighbor. Many suggestions have been offered as
                    explanations for this anger, but none can be adequately proven. Even the most likely, that
                    Harper's brother had been tortured and killed by Indians in the War of 1812, has not as yet
                    been confirmed.11 Harper was John T. Bridge's brother-inlaw and had
                    come to 
                        Madison County
                     to visit his deceased sister's family.
            On Friday, March 19, 1824, Harper, Bridge, Sawyer, Hudson, and other neighborhood men gathered for a
                    house raising at the farm of their neighbor, Peter Jones. During a break in their labor, some of the
                    men who were engaged in a friendly conversation began discussing the Indians encamped at the Big
                    Lick. Hudson made his report that Ludlow had threatened his wife. This statement seemed to trigger
                    the resentment of the company. Harper quickly replied that "all the Indians ought to be
                    killed." Then Sawyer allegedly added that "if an Indian would steal a horse from
                    him, he would shoot him if possible."12 The conversation, unfavorable
                    toward their Indian 
                  
                     8 Samuel Woodworth, The Life and Confession of James
                                Hudson (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1825), 3–4; Smith, Early Indiana Trials and
                            Sketches, 52.
                  
                     9 Woodworth, Life and Confession of James Hudson,
                            4–6.
                  
                     10 J. J. Netterville, ed., Centennial History of 
                                    Madison County
                                , Indiana: An Account of One Hundred Years of Progress (2 vols.,
                            Anderson, Ind., 1925), I, 70; Jacob Piatt Dunn, True Indian Stories
                            … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1908), 199.
                  
                     11 Thurman, "The 
                                Fall Creek
                             Tragedy," 230–39; Woodworth, Life and
                                Confession of James Hudson, 9.
                  
                  
                     12 Woodworth, Life and Confession of James Hudson,
                            6.
               
                     neighbors, continued until the party eventually separated. The
                    seed had been planted.
            The following Sunday, late in the morning, Sawyer appeared at the Hudson farm. He had, it seemed,
                    lost some horses and was recruiting a number of his neighbors to assist him in their recapture.
                    Sawyer even indicated that he believed the Indians might have stolen them. By late that afternoon
                    Sawyer's party included his son Stephen, Harper, John Bridge, Jr., and James Bridge (John
                    T. Bridge's sons), and a local boy named Andrew Jones. Thus organized, their search was
                    soon underway. The men had not gone far before two conspicuous piles of corn were found in the woods
                    near Sawyer's farm. Sawyer insisted that the Indians must have used the corn to catch his
                    horses. Hudson would later assert that someone had planted the corn in order to make him believe the
                    Indians had, in fact, stolen the horses. The search continued until darkness settled, when it was
                    agreed that all would take up the hunt in the morning. During the night considerable rain fell in
                    the area.13
            
            The next morning, March 22, as the company began to reassemble at Sawyer's farm to share
                    their breakfast, Harper told his companions the moving story of his brother who had been killed by
                    the Indians during the War of 1812. Sawyer reiterated that if the Indians had his horses he would
                    surely kill them. Continuing their charade, the party decided to investigate the Indian camp first.
                    If the sight were vacated, they reasoned, it could be assumed that the horses had, indeed, been
                    stolen. Harper, accompanied by Andrew Sawyer and his son Stephen; the brothers John Bridge, Jr., and
                    James Bridge; Hudson; and Andrew Jones, set off in the direction of the Indian encampment. The
                    elderly Peter Jones and John T. Bridge remained behind because of the rain. As the men approached
                    the swamps near the creek, they "found" several horse tracks in the mud. Again,
                    Hudson would later maintain that Harper had planted the evidence and that Sawyer himself had hidden
                    his horses.14 The search continued as they drew closer to the unsuspecting
                    Indians.
            Following a trail through the woods, the men eventually came to Logan's camp. As the group
                    approached, the Indians became visibly alarmed at the sight of so many armed white men. Hudson noted
                    M'Doal's absence and assumed that he had already departed with Sawyer's
                    horses. The men dried their clothes around the camp's fire and talked freely with the
                    Indians. Eventually, for fifty cents apiece, Harper was able to enlist Logan and Ludlow, the latter
                    of whom at least harbored reservations, in the search for Sawyer's
                    "missing" horses.15 The party then headed deeper into the
                    territory of the Big Lick.
            
               
                  13
                        ibid., 8.
               
                  14
                        ibid., 9–10.
               
                  15
                        Ibid., 10–11.
            
            
            While making their way through the woods, Hudson and John Bridge, Jr., fell back from the group and
                    urgently whispered to one another. Bridge revealed that his uncle (Harper) had insisted that the
                    "Indians must be killed." The search led to an old abandoned cabin; and when
                    everyone but John Bridge, Jr., Hudson, Logan, and Ludlow entered, Hudson assumed they were plotting
                    the murders of Logan and Ludlow. The conference concluded, and the men, with the exception of Logan,
                    casually drank whiskey and tested their skill shooting their rifles at some ducks and other targets.
                    Harper then divided the party. He led Sawyer and his son, Stephen, James Bridge, and Ludlow in one
                    direction and sent the second party, Jones, John Bridge, Jr., Hudson, and Logan, in another.
                    Everyone in the party, with the exception of the unsuspecting Indians, was well aware of
                    Harper's insidious plans.16
            
            When Hudson's party had walked about a half mile, John Bridge, Jr., is said to have repeated
                    his uncle's order. After a quick consultation, Hudson, John Bridge, Jr., and Jones all
                    expressed their determination to follow Harper's plan. Hudson would later confess: 
                        
                     Logan was about thirty steps ahead of us-being then in his rear, each of us
                            manifested a desire to have the first shot-I raised up my rifle-John Bridge stepped up by my
                            side-the guns of Jones and Bridge missed fire-mine went off and shot Logan
                            through the body! He screamed frightfully, and the blood spouted out from both sides, to a
                            considerable distance.-He turned and cried, "You kill
                            me." As he did not fall, Bridge ran up immediately, put his gun against him
                            and pushed him over. Logan was now on the ground in a sitting
                            posture-Jones raised his rifle-Logan covered his face with his hands, and
                            said "if you shoot me, shoot me through the head." Jones
                            held his gun within a foot of Logan-it flashed-John Bridge then struck him across the head
                            with his gun-he fell backwards-I ran twenty or thirty yards back and commenced
                            reloading-Bridge done the same-Jones in the mean time was endeavoring to discharge his
                            rifle. I then told Bridge to put him out of his misery-he ran up to Logan
                            and stuck him twice [in the chest] with his [nine-inch-long] butcher
                                knife.17
                  
                    
                
            Logan was dead, his body sprawled on the forest floor. The murderers wasted little time. They dragged
                    Logan's blood-soaked frame to a nearby depression, which was created by the toppling of an
                    old tree, and rolled it into the hole. Next, they shook the roots of the dead tree and gathered duff
                    from the forest floor to cover the body. Making their way home, Hudson, John Bridge, Jr., and Jones
                    began to realize the gravity of the crime they had just committed. They feared the members of the
                    other party might not have done their part by killing Ludlow. They feared that they might have been
                    noticed by other Indians in the area. Most of all, they feared that they would be punished for the
                    "enormity" of their offense.18
            
            
               
                  16
                        Ibid., 11.
               
                  17 Trial transcript of State of Indiana v. John Bridge and
                            James Hudson in the Fifth Judicial Circuit, October Session, 1824, enclosed in Appeal
                        of Attorneys Martin M. Ray and Calvin Fletcher to Indiana Supreme Court, November Term, 1824
                        (Archives Division, Indiana Commission on Public Records, Indiana State Library and Historical
                        Building, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ); Woodworth, Life and Confession of James Hudson,
                        12–13.
               
                  18 Woodworth, Life and Confession of James Hudson,
                    13.
            
            
            Hudson, John Bridge, Jr., and Jones did not learn of Ludlow's fate until the entire group
                    reconvened a short distance from Sawyer's farm. James Bridge was now absent. Either the
                    seventeen-year-old boy did not have the stomach for killing and had retreated to his home, or Sawyer
                    had appointed him to watch the "missing" horses. At any rate, his father, John T.
                    Bridge, had taken his son's place in the party. Ludlow had, indeed, been killed.
                    Harper's party, too, had apparently traveled a short distance from the camp when Harper and
                    Sawyer fell back, took aim, and shot Ludlow through the back. The Indian was dead before his body
                    hit the forest floor.19
            
            Their thirst for blood not quenched, the company once again moved toward Logan's camp. With
                    the exception of John Bridge, Jr., who had evidently begun to listen to his conscience, the men
                    showed no regret and had no misgivings about what they had just done-or what they were prepared to
                    do. The tall, boyish, eighteen-year-old, however, stopped in the path, turned back, and expressed
                    his desire not to accompany the others any farther. His reluctance drew sharp rebukes from his
                    father who called him a coward and reminded him that "God commanded them to kill their
                    enemies, and that the Holy Scriptures required it." Harper again reminded the boy of his
                    "brave uncle" who had been killed by the "damned Indians." With
                    a little more encouragement, John Bridge, Jr., once more consented to go along. Hudson then began to
                    have reservations about the deed they were about to commit. He refused to have any part in killing
                    women and children. Sitting on a log, he put his head in his hands and began to think, but the
                    others would wait no longer.20
            
            When the white men calmly walked into the Indian camp, the women knew something was wrong. They
                    approached the white strangers nervously. One of the women, who was herself half white and could
                    speak some English, apprehensively asked the men about her husband. They told her that he would
                    return shortly and that she should go back into her house. As the woman turned to obey, one of the
                    men, probably John T. Bridge, raised his rifle and shot her in the back. She sank to her knees,
                    pleading for her life, imploring the name of Jesus, and recalling to the killers that she was half
                    white. They did not listen, and while she knelt on the ground, one of the men crushed her skull with
                    a blow from a hominy pounder. Sawyer quickly turned and fired his rifle, hitting a second woman in
                    the head and killing her instantly. A third woman simultaneously fell to the ground with a gunshot
                    wound. The children, watching in horror, were unable to escape. The men immediately turned to them
                    and continued their savage work until all four were dead. Observing what they had done, Sawyer
                    noticed that one of the boys was still alive. He 
                  
                     19
                            Ibid.; Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches, 51.
                  
                     20
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, May 17,1825; Woodworth, Life and Confession
                                of James Hudson, 13–14.
               
                     moved toward him, quickly seized his legs, and cruelly smashed
                    his head against the end of a log.21
            
            Off in the distance, the third Seneca man, M'Doal, upon hearing the gunshots, bolted toward
                    the Indian camp, fearing the worst. Breaking through the underbrush and charging onto the scene, he
                    was met with an explosion of gunfire. A bullet pierced his body but did not prevent him from
                    wheeling around and escaping into the woods.22
            
            Using tomahawks, knives, and clubs, Harper's party mutilated the bodies of the victims in
                    order to give the appearance that, perhaps, the Indian men had gotten drunk and murdered their own
                    families. The ground was soaked in blood, littered with pieces of human brain, and strewn with human
                    flesh. The white men's final act was to strip the bodies of the women and children and
                    throw them into a nearby muddy pond. Their gruesome work finished, they plundered the camp of
                    anything of value, met up with Hudson, and started for home.23
            
            Fifteen-year-old John Adams awoke when John T. Bridge and his sons entered the Bridge cabin. The boy
                    feigned sleep as he listened to the men shuffling about. Earlier in the day, Abraham Adams,
                    John's father, had sent young John to the Bridge farm to purchase a sack of corn. John
                    Adams and two of Bridge's children had sat inside the cabin and shelled the corn by the
                    warmth of the fire. When their chore was finished, John had reclined in front of the fire and, using
                    his sack of corn as a pillow, had soon fallen asleep. That night, having heard enough of the
                    men's muffled conversation, he was convinced that they had been killing Indians. Stretched
                    out in front of the fire, he did not stir; and after watching John T. Bridge bar the door of the
                    cabin, he quietly fell back to sleep.24
            
            The next morning John Bridge, Sr., woke John Adams and sent him home with an urgent message. Bridge
                    told the boy to tell his father that the Indians had probably stolen Andrew Sawyer's
                    horses. Adams should therefore bring his rifle and come to the Sawyer farm right away. John
                    immediately ran home and relayed the message to his father but added his own opinion that the
                    Bridges had been out the previous day and might have killed a number of Indians. When Abraham Adams
                    and his son arrived at Sawyer's farm with Harper, John T. Bridge and his two sons, and
                    Hudson, Sawyer reported that his horses had "come home the previous evening" and
                    that his boys had heard some "heavy firing in the direction of the Big Lick."
                    Sawyer 
                  
                     21 Johnston, "Recollections of Sixty Years," 163;
                            Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches, 52.
                  
                     22 John Gamerry to Johnston, undated, 
                                Michigan
                             Superintendency, Ml, roll 14; Woodworth, Life and Confession of
                                James Hudson, 14.
                  
                     23 Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches, 52;
                            Woodworth, Life and Confession of James Hudson, 15; Anderson Democrat, May 1, 1874.
                  
                     24 Anderson Democrat, May 1, 1874.
               
                     indicated that he had reason to believe the Indians had been
                    killing one another. Everyone set out for the encampment.25
            
            As the party approached the area, young John Adams was once again suspicious. On many occasions in
                    the past he and his father had come to Logan's camp to visit with the Indians. John
                    recalled that when this close to the camp on previous visits he could hear children playing and dogs
                    barking and smell smoke from the fires. This time all was silent.26 The evidence
                    would soon speak for itself. Blood and other signs left the clear impression that the Indians might
                    indeed have killed each other, a not unprecedented occurrence on the frontier.
            Following a trail through the brush, the party soon discovered the small pond in which they found the
                    bodies of the women and children. To the horror of the murderers, one of the women, wounded and
                    exposed, was yet alive. She had dragged herself out of the water and collapsed on the ground. Seeing
                    the men, she struggled to speak in her native tongue but also mumbled a few words in English which
                    nobody could understand. An alarmed John T. Bridge, trying to prevent her from revealing the
                    identity of the murderers, suggested that she be "killed out of her misery." This
                    heartless comment did not go unnoticed by Abraham Adams who was beginning to reach some frightening
                    conclusions about his neighbors. Many in the party turned away, not wanting to view the blood,
                    mangled bodies, and horror of death.27
            
            What happened next is baffling. The men departed the camp for their homes, and Abraham Adams and his
                    son immediately spread the news of the murders throughout the county. Yet, according to James
                    Hudson, nobody bothered to assist the dying Indian woman. She would lay exposed and helpless until
                    the following day when she was found by Charles Tharp, the county coroner, and the local militia.
                    The men took the poor woman to the home of Peter Jones who coldly refused to allow her to be brought
                    into his house. Leaving Jones's farm, they took her next to the home of John T. Bridge. In
                    the late afternoon she lay muttering indistinguishable words in both the English and Seneca
                    languages until she died in the evening of the same day. Hudson admitted that he suspected those
                    "who had murdered the women and children, also put a period to her existence, fearing that
                    if she did recover, that she might become informer."28
            
            On this gloomy March day of 1824 then-ten years after the close of the War of 1812-Harper finally
                    savored the taste of his longawaited revenge; however, what Harper did not know about his murdered
                    victims is disturbing. Logan and his companions belonged 
                  
                     25 Anderson Democrat, May 1, 1874; Woodworth, Life and Confession of James Hudson, 15.
                  
                     26 Anderson Democrat, May 1, 1874.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid.; Woodworth, Life and Confession of James Hudson,
                            16.
                  
                     28 Woodworth, Life and Confession of James Hudson, 16; 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Gazette, March 30, 1824.
               
                     to a branch of the Indian nation that had settled in the 
                        Ohio country
                     in the mid-eighteenth century. Although these Indians did fight with the British during
                    the War for Independence, the same Indians either fought with the 
                        United States
                     or, in the face of great pressure from their fellow Indians, did not fight against the 
                        United States
                     during the War of 1812.29 Logan was known to whites as "a
                    person of great distinction and [one] greatly esteemed among the Senecas";30 as a "venerable old chief, whose name ought to have been his passport and
                    protection from 
                        Maine
                     to 
                        Georgia
                    , and from the 
                        Mississippi
                     to the Atlantic"; and finally as a "friend of the white
                        men."31 Harper had wreaked his vengeance on the wrong man, and
                    Logan, along with his family and friends, became victims in a cruel twist of fate.
            Needless to say, as the news of the massacre spread, the residents of central Indiana panicked.
                    Indiana newspapers labeled the incident "Outrageous!" One called the massacre
                    "a murder scarcely excelled in atrocity"; yet another called it "one of
                    the most outrageous transactions that has occurred since the settlement of the state." In
                    fact, the massacre grabbed national attention, the story even appearing in the
                            
                  Hillsborough, North Carolina
               , Recorder.
               32
            
            Everyone in central Indiana feared retaliation from the Indians, especially from the Senecas. Whether
                    or not M'Doal had been able to report the massacre to his fellows could not be determined;
                    nevertheless, emergency measures were taken. Sheriff Samuel Corey sought assistance from the local
                    militia, and Major John Montgomery called out the twenty-two men under his command. 
                        Montgomery
                     also sent a detail to bury the dead Indians and to collect their possessions so that
                    they might be handed over to their relatives. The men of the settlement moved their own families to
                    the village at the falls on 
                        Fall Creek
                     for safety, using the mill as a makeshift fortress.33 Others,
                    wanting to take no risks, sent their loved ones entirely out of the state.34
            
            Suspicion rested on the Bridges, the Sawyers, Hudson, Andrew Jones, and Harper; and by the morning of
                    Thursday, March 23,1824, a growing number of men were watching Bridge's house. Harper,
                    wasting no time, had his horse saddled with the goods that he had stolen from the Indians. When the
                    men watching the farm began to close in and it looked as if it might be too late for escape, Harper
                    and John T. Bridge lost their composure, abandoned their stolen goods and 
                  
                     29 Trigger, Handbook of North American Indians, XV,
                            537.
                  
                     30 Johnston to Cass, April 28, 1824, 
                                Piqua
                             Agency, Letters Received, 1824–1830, Records of the Bureau of Indian
                            Affairs, Record Group 75, National Archives Microfilm Publication M234, roll 669 (hereafter
                            cited as 
                                Piqua
                            
                            Agency, M234, roll 669).
                  
                     31
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Indiana Gazette, November 13, 1824.
                  
                     32
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, April 17,1824; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, March 30,1824; 
                        Hillsborough, North
                            Carolina
                     , Recorder, April 28, 1824.
                  
                     33
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, March 30, 1824.
                  
                     34 Ruth K. Dane, interview with author, Markleville, Indiana, August
                            11, 1988.
               
                     horses, and attempted to escape on foot. The older Bridge,
                    falling to the ground, was easily captured. Harper, better adapted to life in the woods, had more
                    success. Using the momentum gained from running down a hill, he escaped despite the gunfire of Moses
                    Cox, who was, incidentally, the clerk of the county court.35 A posse tracked
                    Harper to 
                        Butler County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , before the men gave up the chase.36
            
            Harper was next seen in the area of Rossville, 
                        Ohio
                    , and later in 
                  Hamilton, Ohio
               . When the circumstances of the murders were
                    relayed to the residents of 
                        Hamilton
                    , the outraged men of that town continued pursuit of the fugitive. They chased him for
                    "some distance" before giving up and returning to their homes.37 From 
                        Ohio
                    , it was surmised that Harper went to 
                  Virginia, Kentucky
               , or even 
                        Texas
                    . He was never apprehended.
            Harper's companions did not fare as well. They were quickly taken into custody, a fact that,
                    ironically, presented the settlement's next problem. Since the county was newly
                    established, it lacked a county jail and a courthouse. As a matter of fact, 
                        Madison County
                     did not even have a magistrate, and the prisoners had to be taken to neighboring 
                        Hamilton County
                     to appear before Andrew W. Ingraham. In this initial hearing Andrew Jones and Stephen
                    Sawyer asserted their innocence and, along with John Adams, became state's witnesses.38
            
            In the meantime someone had the good sense to contact the Office of Indian Affairs, then a division
                    of the War Department of the 
                        United States
                    . Captain John Berry volunteered to ride express and carry the message of the
                    unfortunate event to Colonel John Johnston, the Indian agent at 
                  Piqua, Ohio
               , in whose
                    jurisdiction the Seneca Indians fell. Johnston, realizing the urgency of the situation, wasted no
                    time in getting to Indiana. He went directly to the small village at the falls on 
                        Fall Creek
                    , which was about nine miles west of the scene of the Indian massacre.39
            
            Known to many as an agent who ensured fair treatment for the Indian while also loyally guarding the
                    interests of the 
                        United States
                     government, Johnston had begun his extensive involvement in Indian affairs on the
                    Indiana frontier in 1802.40 In the aftermath of the Deer Lick massacre in 
                        Madison County
                    , his experience was to prove invaluable. Upon his arrival in Indiana,
                    Johnston's first concern was to secure the prisoners for trial, a difficult feat in a
                    village that had 
                  
                     35 Cox, Recollections of the Early Settlement of the
                                    Wabash Valley, 10; Woodworth, Life and
                                Confession of James Hudson, 17.
                  
                     36
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, April 17, 1824.
                  
                     37
                            
                        Hamilton, Ohio
                     , Intelligencer and Advertiser, April
                            13, 1824.
                  
                     38
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, April 17,1824; Woodworth, Life and Confession
                                of James Hudson, 17.
                  
                     39 Johnston, "Recollections of Sixty Years," 163.
                  
                     40 Kenneth W. Duckett, "John Johnston,"Museum Echoes, LXXXIII (January, 1960), 3.
               
                     no jail and plenty of residents who sympathized with the
                    killers. Second, Johnston would have to spend considerable time convincing the Indians that
                    retaliation would not be an acceptable response to the tragedy; the 
                        United States
                     government must be given time to effect justice. Finally, the Indian agent wanted
                    cooperation from the state on behalf of the murdered Senecas.
            Johnston immediately authorized the building of a log jail and ordered the prisoners to be bound.
                    Most citizens agreed that it would be best to keep the accused within the boundaries of 
                        Madison County
                    ; otherwise "the Indians might … suppose they had been removed for
                    the purpose of evading or escaping punishment."41 The jail,
                    "built of logs hewed square, so that each timber fitted close to the one upon which it
                    rested," had "but one door and no windows."42 In
                    addition, it was "enclosed with pickets-logs placed on end in the ground, about sixteen
                    feet high, forming an area around the prison of about eight rods square. …"
                    Included, too, was a "guard house, wherein four sentinels [were] stationed."43 Adam Winchell, one of the county's associate judges, was also the
                    only blacksmith in the area, and the prisoners had been taken to his farm to be
                    "ironed" with cuffs and chains.44 The strange-looking jail, as
                    well as its inhabitants, became the object of great curiosity.
            Accompanied by his friend William Conner, a trader, scout, and interpreter who lived in nearby 
                        Hamilton County
                     and enjoyed the esteem of the Indian population, Johnston covered miles visiting many
                    of the Indian villages and camps. He wrote on May 19, 1824: "I have been almost constantly
                    in motion ever since [the massacre] in a season unusually wet, lying out, crossing high waters, my
                    health not good before, I have suffered greatly."45 The message to the
                    Indian population was simple-wait. Although Johnston assured the Indians that justice would be
                    served by the white man's government, he later expressed his anxiety about his message in a
                    letter to his superior, Lewis Cass, the governor of 
                        Michigan
                     Territory: "We who are among the Indians daily are unanimously of the opinion
                    that should the murderers escape [punishment], the Indians will glut their revenge on the exposed
                    settlements on White River." Cass had already charged Johnston with
                    the very difficult task of preventing such retaliation: "The first object is to quiet any
                    alarms of the frontier settlers or of the Indians, which might lead to mutual aggression and
                    depredations. For this purpose I think it important, that 
                  
                     41 William Hendricks to Johnston, June 24, 1824, copy enclosed in
                            Johnston to Thomas L. McKenney, July 14, 1824, 
                                Piqua
                             Agency, M234, roll 669.
                  
                     42 Forkner and Dyson, Historical Sketches of 
                                    Madison County
                                , 28.
                  
                     43 Cox, Recollections of the Early Settlement of the
                                    Wabash Valley, 10.
                  
                     44 Forkner and Dyson, Historical Sketches of 
                                    Madison County
                                , 722.
                  
                     45 Johnston to John C. Calhoun, May 19, 1824, 
                                Piqua
                             Agency, M234, roll 669; Charles N. Thompson, Sons of the
                                Wilderness: John and William Conner (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol.
                            XII, 1937; 2nd ed., 
                                Noblesville
                            , Ind., 1988), 144.
               
                    
                    
                  JOHN JOHNSTON AT AGE
                                FORTY-FIVE 1820
                  Reproduced from Leonard U. Hill, John Johnston and the Indians in
                                the Land of the Three Miamis (
                        Piqua, Ohio
                     , 1957),
                            following p. 37. Original in 
                                Ohio
                             Historical Society, 
                                Columbus
                            .
               
                     you should … explain to both parties how groundless
                    would be any apprehensions. … I trust confidence can be easily restored."46
            
            Johnston also contacted the governor of Indiana, William Hendricks, to ask for his assistance in the
                    prosecution of the prisoners. Hendricks did not reply for four months, leaving Johnston to conclude
                    that he was not interested in the matter.47
            
            Meanwhile, on April 8, the circuit court for 
                        Madison County
                     commenced its spring session in the home of Thomas McCartney. A grand jury indicted the
                    four men in custody, John Bridge, Sr., John Bridge, Jr., Sawyer, and Hudson, for the murder of the
                    Indians. In the course of the opening session, William W. Wick, the president judge, fell ill; and
                    it became necessary to postpone the trial until the October, 1824, term of the court.48 Before adjournment, however, Thomas McCartney was allowed "the sum of five
                    dollars for furnishing whiskey and corn for the use of the guards." Curiously, Johnston
                    paid for these supplies with federal funds.49
            
            Returning to 
                        Piqua
                     after the spring session, an irritated Johnston wrote to Secretary of War John C.
                    Calhoun to inform him of the incident. "A most shocking murder was committed on the bodies
                    of nine Indians belonging to this agency on the 22 [of March]," he wrote. "The
                    affairs for cold blooded cruelty baffles all description, and in point of atrocity surpasses
                    anything that has ever disgraced the settlement of this country." He then informed the
                    secretary of his progress and requested the department's guarantee for the expenditures
                    that he had been making. He concluded, "The murdered persons were among our best friends
                    during the late war [and] one was a man of great distinction, they have left many relatives who
                    depend on them for a living."50
            
            Johnston counseled with the relatives of Logan and his family at 
                        Lewis
                     Town. The agent carefully described the incident and explained the way that the white
                    man's system of justice, slow though it was, would work. At the end of his visit he
                    presented gifts to Logan's survivors, a "common practice on such
                    occasions." Cass reassured Johnston that his actions were appropriate. "It is
                    necessary," he wrote, that "the Indians should be fully satisfied." The
                    governor further instructed Johnston to inform the Indians that "this atrocious
                    act" had been committed by "bad men" who were not countenanced 
                  
                     46 Johnston to Cass, May 29,1824, 
                                Michigan
                             Superintendency, Ml, roll 14; Cass to Johnston, May 3, 1824, 
                                Michigan
                             Superintendency, 1824–1827, Records of the Bureau of Indian Affairs,
                            Record Group 75, National Archives Microfilm Publication M234, roll 419 (hereafter cited as 
                                Michigan
                             Superintendency, M234, roll 419).
                  
                     47 Hendricks to Johnston, June 24, 1824, copy enclosed in Johnston to
                            McKenney, July 14, 1824, 
                                Piqua
                             Agency, M234, roll 669.
                  
                     48
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Gazette, April 13, 1824. According to Indiana law, the circuit court was
                            allowed only three days for its session, and this limitation forced the adjournment in the
                            extended absence of the president judge. Indiana, Laws (1823),
                            86–87.
                  
                     49 Forkner and Dyson, Historical Sketches of 
                                    Madison County
                                , 28.
                  
                     50 Johnston to Calhoun, April 28, 1824, 
                                Piqua
                             Agency, M234, roll 669.
               
                     by the government nor by any respectable citizen and that
                    everything proper would be done "to bring them to punishment." As Johnston left
                    Lewis Town, he was confident he had "pacified their [the Indians'] minds and
                    procured their unanimous consent to submit the case to the decision of the County." He was
                    also aware of the great pressure under which he must work. Writing again to Governor Cass he
                    reported: "In all my communications with the persons in Indiana, I have urged the necessity
                    of an example being made of the murderers; thus far it appears that the officers charged with the
                    execution of the Laws are determined to do their duty, the people from their fear of the retaliatory
                    vengeance of the Indians are affording them all the support of their power."51 In another letter to Secretary Calhoun, Johnston gave a frank assessment of the
                    conditions on the Indiana frontier and the government's responsibilities: 
                        The character of the Government is deeply implicated in rendering justice to the Indians on
                            this occasion. The affair has thrown the whole frontier for 200 miles into the greatest
                            confusion. Many of the people have moved away and those who remain are under continual dread
                            [that] nothing will satisfy the Indians but the execution of some or all of the murderers.
                            We are now in hopes that this will take place, and confidence be again restored.52
                  
                    
                
            In a letter dated May 11, 1824, Johnston received the support he had been seeking. Responding to the
                    Indian agent's letters, Calhoun indicated that "the foul murder of the Indians by
                    the white men" had been heard "with deep regret." He further expressed
                    his hope that "proper examples" would be made of such "monsters"
                    in order to deter others from similar horrible deeds.53
            
            Taking advantage of the conceivably short-term peace, Johnston turned his attention to establishing a
                    prosecution team during the summer months before the trial. He had discovered that the
                    "friends of the prisoners had engaged the ablest counsel at and near 
                        Indianapolis
                    ," about "seven Attorneys in all,"54
                    including such highly competent men as James Rariden, Calvin Fletcher, Martin M. Ray, William R.
                    Morris, Lot Bloomfield, Charles H. Test, and Bethuel F. Morris.55 Johnston
                    employed thirty-nine-year-old General James Noble, who was serving his second term as 
                        United States
                     senator from Indiana, to direct the prosecution. Although he later admitted that
                    Noble's experience at the bar and his "weight of character" were primary
                    considerations, Johnston stated that the senator's "connection 
                  
                     51 Cass to Johnston, May 3, 1824, 
                                Michigan
                             Superintendency, M234, roll 419; Johnston to Cass, May 13, 1824, ibid., Ml, roll 14.
                  
                     52 Johnston to Calhoun, May 19, 1824, 
                                Piqua
                             Agency, M234, roll 669.
                  
                     53 McKenney to Johnston, May 11, 1824, Letters Sent,
                            1824–1881, vol. 1, p. 69, Records of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Record Group
                            75, National Archives Microfilm Publication, M21, roll 1 (hereafter Indian Affairs, Letters
                            Sent, M21, roll 1).
                  
                     54 Johnston to McKenney, February 1, 1826, 
                                Piqua
                             Agency, M234, roll 669.
                  
                     55 Woodworth, Life and Confession of James Hudson,
                            19; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, May 17, 1825; Smith, Early Indiana Trials
                                and Sketches, 177.
               
                     with the general government and his long and high standing as a
                    public man in Indiana were the only inducements" for his selection. More importantly,
                    perhaps, Johnston was relying on Noble's "known zeal, industry and talents in
                    working upon the feelings of a jury."56
            
            Meanwhile, on a number of occasions the prisoners had broken out of the newly constructed jail at the
                    falls on 
                        Fall Creek
                    . Their attempted escapes resulted largely from "the negligence of the
                    guard" who were "principally youths and not attending to good order at
                        all."57 Johnston again took the matter upon himself: 
                        I ascertained to my satisfaction that the murderers would effect their escape if a guard was
                            not maintained over them night and day. The county in which they are confined is too poor to
                            bear the expense of one, and the Governor of the State thus far has taken no notice of the
                            transaction nor has he replied to any of the communications made to him on the subject in
                            this state of things. I was compelled [therefore] to authorize the employment of four men as
                            a guard at $12 per month each for pay and subsistence.58
                  
                     These precautions, too, proved to be inadequate, for shortly after Johnston wrote this
                    letter to Cass, all the prisoners escaped once again. Owing to their own folly, they were soon
                    recaptured. Other than these occasional happenings, all was quiet at the falls on 
                        Fall Creek
                    , and everyone awaited the October session of the 
                        Madison County
                     Circuit Court.
            William W. Wick, the president judge at the upcoming trial, was young to be sitting on the bench, but
                    his youthfulness was tempered with "much experience in criminal trials."59 Greatly esteemed by his fellow Hoosiers, Wick later became quite prominent in
                    the state. Sitting to his left and right would be associate judges Adam Winchell and Samuel
                    Holliday. Holliday had come to 
                        Madison County
                     in 1822 and was so respected by his neighbors that he was elected an associate judge
                    soon after his arrival. Winchell, the village blacksmith, was, surprisingly, almost illiterate. In
                    spite of this liability he enjoyed a reputation as a man of honesty and integrity. Winchell had
                    directed the burying of Logan and his family. Both associate judges were considered
                    "pioneers of excellent character."60
            
            Any capital trial would have occasioned much interest among the people in nineteenth-century pioneer
                    America. One pertaining to the murder of Indians by white settlers was especially exciting. Thus it
                    was amid much commotion that the Fifth Judicial Circuit of 
                  
                     56
                            Biographical Directory of the 
                                    United States
                                 Congress, 1774–1989 (Bicentennial edition, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1989), 1572; Johnston to McKenney, February 1,1826, 
                                Piqua
                             Agency, M234, roll 669.
                  
                     57 Woodworth, Life and Confession of James Hudson,
                            17; Henry Sybert to Johnston, July 6,1825, 
                                Piqua
                             Agency, M234, roll 669; 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Public Leger, July 17,1824; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, November 23, 1824.
                  
                     58 Johnston to Cass, May 29, 1824, 
                                Michigan
                             Superintendency, Ml, roll 14.
                  
                     59 Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches, 53.
                  
                     60 Dunn, True Indian Stories, 203; Samuel Harden,
                                History of 
                                    Madison County
                                , Indiana (Markleville, Ind., 1874), 247, 284.
               
                     Indiana opened its fall session on Thursday, October 7,1824. In
                    spite of the vast crowds that had gathered to witness the affair, one observer later recalled that
                    "the greatest order and decorum prevailed during the whole session."61 According to Indiana law, the court would have but three days to transact its business
                    before adjournment, a task which would prove impossible in light of the four accused men awaiting
                    trial. The indictment in the first case read in part: 
                        not having the fear of God before their eyes but being moved and induced by the instigation
                            of the Devil … with force of arms … feloniously willfully and of their
                            malice … [James Hudson and his accomplice, John Bridge, Jr.] did make an assault
                            … and kill and murder contrary to law and against the peace and dignity of the
                            State of Indiana [one Logan an Indian man in the peace of God and the State of Indiana].62
                  
                     After conducting opening business, the court turned its attention to seating a petit jury
                    of "twelve lawful men and householders and freeholders" of 
                        Madison County
                    . This process consumed more valuable time because of what Johnston called,
                    "the usual exceptions in challenging" the jurors.63 The court
                    continued in session late into the night before finally selecting the jury and adjourning.
            Hudson was escorted into the courtroom by the deputy sheriff and two guards at six o'clock
                    Friday morning. After months of confinement in a one-room jail without windows, Hudson appeared
                    "pale, haggard and downcast" and "with a faltering voice, answered upon
                    his arraignment, 'Not guilty.'"64 The state then
                    produced its only witness, Andrew Jones, the young man who had accompanied John Bridge, Jr., and
                    Hudson into the Big Lick to kill Logan. The examination of the witness did not take long, and by
                    late morning the prosecution's arguments, which were restricted, had been presented.65 Then followed the arguments of the defense. "In able, eloquent, and
                    powerful speeches, appealing to the prejudice of the jury against the Indians," the defense
                    counsel recalled the "early massacres of white men, women and children, by the Indians.
                    …" Hudson's attorneys also read accounts of various tragic events that
                    had occurred on the frontier of the Northwest Territory, stressing catastrophes such as
                    Braddock's, St. Clair's, and Harmar's military defeats as well as the
                    struggles of frontier legends like Daniel Boone and Simon Kenton. General Noble then closed the
                    arguments for the state. "In one of his forcible speeches," the general held up
                    the bloody clothes of the Indians for the jury to see as he appealed to their sense of justice,
                    patriotism, and love of the law. He concluded by pointing out that "the safety of the
                    settlers might depend upon the conviction of the prisoners. …" 
                  
                     61 Woodworth, Life and Confession of James Hudson,
                            19.
                  
                     62 Trial transcript of State of Indiana v. John Bridge
                                and James Hudson.
                  
                  
                     63
                            Ibid.; Johnston to McKenney, October 19, 1824, 
                                Piqua
                             Agency, M234, roll 669.
                  
                     64 Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches, 56.
                  
                     65 Woodworth, Life and Confession of James Hudson,
                            18.
               
                     Noble's argument was said to have had "a
                    marked effect upon the crowd, as well as the jury."66
            
            After only one hour of deliberation, the jurors returned a verdict that was read aloud to the
                    prisoner: "guilty in manner and form as he stands charged." The defendant was
                    given until the next morning "to show why judgment of death should not pass against
                    him." The court then quickly moved to the case against John Bridge, Jr. The trial ran well
                    into the night before the suit finally had to be postponed. An angry Johnston, who was carefully
                    observing the proceedings, wrote: "It was all in vain, twelve men could not be found who
                    had not disqualified themselves in having expressed opinions unfavorable to the case of the
                    prisoners." When the court reassembled the next morning, Judge Wick offered to hear reasons
                    for "an arrest of the judgment of the court" in the case against Hudson. The
                    condemned man's attorneys presented various errors that they claimed were made during the
                    trial. Considering each of the objections, Wick methodically overruled every one.67
            
            The court was now prepared to sentence the prisoner. Hudson stood before his peers as Judge Wick, in
                    a solemn and eloquent manner, made keen observations in an impressive obiter
                    dictum. He slowly and clearly reviewed the actions of the court, even praising
                    Hudson's defense team, which he thought exhibited "much ability and
                    ingenuity" during the trial. Nevertheless, Hudson's jury, "having found
                    no grounds of a rational doubt in his favor," was compelled to "assent"
                    to the grand jury's charges. Wick looked into Hudson's face and exclaimed,
                    "O my God, how could you do it? How could you deprive your brother man (for Indian Logan
                    was your brother) of that life which was as dear to him as is yours to you?" The judge
                    continued: 
                        Logan, although an Indian, is a son of Adam, our common father. Then surely he was not the
                            natural enemy of white men. He was bone of your bone, flesh of your flesh. Besides, by what
                            authority do we hauntingly boast of our being white? What principle of philosophy or of
                            religion establishes the doctrine that a white skin is preferable in nature or in the sight
                            of God to a red or black one? Who has ordained that men of the white skin shall be at
                            liberty to shoot and hunt down men of the red skin, or exercise rule and dominion over those
                            of the black? The Indians of America have been more "sinned against than
                            sinning." Our fore fathers came across the broad Atlantic, and taking advantage of
                            their fears and their simplicity obtained a resting place among the Indians, then the
                            "lords of the soil," and since that time by a series of aggressions, have
                            taken from them their homes and firesides-have pressed them westwardly until they are nearly
                            extinct. We have introduced among them diseases and vice; we have done to them wrongs which
                            cry to heaven for vengeance, and which have, in many instances, brought down on us severe
                                retribution.68
                  
                     The judge continued by recalling the outrages, including the crime Hudson had committed
                    against Logan, that both white and Indian 
                  
                     66 Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches,
                            56–57.
                  
                     67 Trial transcript of State of Indiana v. John Bridge
                                and James Hudson; Johnston to McKenney, October 19, 1824, 
                                Piqua
                             Agency, M234, roll 669.
                  
                     68
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Indiana Gazette, November 13, 1824.
               
                     had committed against one another. He then called on Hudson to
                    "humble yourself before … God, whom you must shortly meet either as an angry
                    Judge, or kind Redeemer." Wick, who had stated, "it has, for the first time in my
                    life, become my duty to pronounce upon a fellow mortal the most awful sentence of the law,"
                    leveled his gaze at 
                        Hudson
                    . He lowered his voice and sentenced the murderer to be hanged by the neck until dead.
                    Amid the emotions of the crowded courtroom, the judge uttered his last word, "And a God of
                    mercy have compassion on your soul."69
            
            Johnston was relieved. He had made considerable promises to the Indians and had spent an ever-growing
                    sum of federal money to have the murderers prosecuted. It was the verdict he needed to hear.
                    Although he was "in the woods with little or no accommodations," he quickly penned
                    the news to Calhoun's Indian Office head, Thomas L. McKenney, and included a word about his
                    frustration with the Indiana court system. Johnston had previously made an unanswered appeal to
                    Governor William Hendricks regarding the need for a special session. Because no action had been
                    taken, he contacted John Conner, a newly elected member of the Indiana House of Representatives and
                    a man familiar with the frontier. Johnston hoped that Conner might secure passage of legislation
                    that would grant a two-week spring term for the court. Three weeks later McKenney sent Johnston very
                    welcome news: "The Secretary of War directs me to convey to you his approval of your
                    proceeding in relation to the murderers."70
            
            Nerves must have been raw in the small log jail at the falls by the end of October, 1824. John
                    Bridge, Jr., broke his silence and insisted that his participation in the Indian murders was at the
                    instigation of his own father and his uncle, Andrew Sawyer. Tension obviously high, on October 24
                    John Bridge, Sr., and Sawyer tried to kill young John Bridge by choking him to death. The guards
                    claimed that only their intervention prevented the crime. Sheriff Corey allowed visitors,
                    sightseers, and the curious into the jail from time to time. One young boy, having missed his chance
                    to enter the jail with his father, scaled the pickets and dropped to the ground inside the compound.
                    A sentinel who had watched the "dexterous feat," raised his rifle and barked,
                    "Out with you!" The boy, alarmed and frightened, "obeyed orders"
                    and "as nimbly as a squirrel, mounted to the top of the picket, grinned defiance at the
                    sentinel, and descended outside."71
            
            Meanwhile, Hudson's attorneys had not given up. On November 9, 1824, they appealed the case
                    to the Indiana Supreme Court. Hudson's best hope rested on the third of the five writs of
                    error that 
                  
                            69
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     70 Johnston to McKenney, October 9,1824, 
                                Piqua
                             Agency, M234, roll 669; Johnston to Noble, December 21, 1824, ibid.; Thompson, Sons of the Wilderness, 145; McKenney to
                            Johnston, November 2, 1824, Indian Affairs, Letters Sent, M21, roll 1.
                  
                     71 Cox, Recollections of the Early Settlement of the
                                    Wabash Valley, 10.
               
                     Calvin Fletcher and Martin Ray had filed on his behalf. Ray
                    insisted that he had not been permitted to question a juryman, "Do you not believe that the
                    conviction and punishment of Hudson is necessary to secure yourself, your family, and the country,
                    from the retaliatory vengeance, and depredations of the Indians?" The justices admitted
                    that this aspect of the case presented "a point of some difficulty to decide," and
                    they further admitted that "the belief mentioned was good cause of challenge.
                    …" They concluded, however, that such a belief was "pretty conclusive
                    evidence not only of a prejudiced mind, but of a corrupt heart" and held that if such an
                    inquiry were permitted of a juror, he would be compelled to "testify to his own
                    depravity." Thus, the supreme court upheld the circuit court's decision not to
                    allow the question, considering it "contrary to established law, that he [the juror] should
                    himself be subject to such an inquiry tending so directly to his own infamy." To the
                    attorney's disappointment, the other four writs of error were also systematically upheld in
                    the court's announcement of November 13, 1824.72
            
            After word of the court's decision, Hudson quickly made his escape. By this time he had
                    learned to slip his handcuffs from his wrists at will and had had a friend smuggle him a small
                    portion of dried beef that would "subsist him until he could get beyond the reach of
                    search." He kept his provisions in his hunting shirt tucked under his belt and spent most
                    of his time reading the Bible. The guards admitted that they were aware of Hudson's
                    preparations but assumed that the prisoner had reached the point of insanity and was therefore
                        harmless.73
            
            On the evening of Saturday, November 15, the guard checked the prisoners and found all present. He
                    noticed Hudson reading his Bible. Less than five minutes later, with the assistance of a fellow
                    prisoner, Hudson scaled the pickets that surrounded the jail and headed north toward 
                        Fall Creek
                    . Wading the creek, he found the water colder than he had anticipated, and with the
                    onset of light rain, he began to shiver in the dark. Continuing north, he crawled into a hollow log
                    for shelter. On Monday evening he traveled up the riverbank about six or seven miles until he came
                    to an old abandoned cabin. Cold, hungry, and exhausted, Hudson crept under the floor of the cabin
                    and remained there until Tuesday, November 25.74
            
            In the meantime Sheriff Corey had posted a one hundred dollar reward for Hudson's return
                    "on or before the first day of December," the day Hudson was to be hanged. In
                    addition, Governor Hendricks granted a delay, and the day of execution was moved from 
                  
                     72 Indiana Supreme Court, November term, 1824, Order Book No. 2, May
                            1823-May 1828, copy (Indiana State Archives).
                  
                     73
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, November 23, 1824; Woodworth, Life and Confession of
                                James Hudson, 19.
                  
                     74 Woodworth, Life and Confession of James Hudson,
                            19–20.
               
                     December 1, 1824, to January 12, 1825.75
                    Hudson seemed to have disappeared, and he had many people worried.
            By Tuesday, Hudson had developed a fever and felt "unusually sick." He was
                    compelled to leave his hiding place in search of water. As he came out from beneath the cabin floor,
                    he found that he was unable to walk. Determined, he crawled to a nearby spring and drank deeply; the
                    intake of water induced vomiting. In the course of his sickness, a Mr. Penn, a local man, found him,
                    took him to his home, and cared for him. When Penn unstrapped and removed Hudson's
                    moccasins, he discovered that his feet were frozen. Oddly enough, Hudson was unaware of his
                        condition.76
            
            Once again Hudson was returned to prison to await execution. He would spend his remaining days
                    visiting with relatives, praying, reading his Bible, and relating his "life and
                    confession" to an 
                        Indianapolis
                     editor. A local minister, Benjamin Miller, conversed regularly with him about his
                    "prospects of future happiness." In the meantime, Hudson's friends were
                    making one last effort for clemency by appealing to the governor. Hudson's wife, Phebe, had
                    already returned to 
                        Ohio
                    . On January 7, 1825, she wrote her husband a letter in which she professed her
                    faithfulness: "If we never meet on earth, I trust to meet you in Heaven, where parting will
                    be no more." She closed, "With a broken heart and streaming eyes, I am your
                    unfortunate widow." Hudson's farewell letter to his wife, written the day before
                    his execution, was much the same and expressed his "unutterable grief."77
            
            On the morning of January 12, 1825, large crowds gathered around the falls at 
                        Fall Creek
                     to witness Hudson's execution. Included were several Seneca Indians, relatives
                    of those who had been murdered. Rev. Miller had visited Hudson during the morning, reassuring him,
                    singing to him. Hudson's coffin, which had been stored in the loft of the jail since the
                    postponement of the execution, was brought down and placed in a wagon. Hudson himself, unable to
                    walk, had to be carried to the wagon where he sat, downcast, on his coffin. With military escort,
                    the wagon moved through the crowds toward the gallows.78
            
            When they arrived at the scaffold, Hudson requested Rev. Miller to preach a sermon on "being
                    prepared to meet your Maker," a text based on Matthew 25:3–4. Thomas H.
                    Pendleton then offered a prayer. A penitent Hudson one last time insisted that he had been deceived
                    and led into his murderous act by his associates. His last request 
                  
                     75
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, November 23, 1824.
                  
                     76 Woodworth, Life and Confession of James Hudson,
                            20.
                  
                     77 Woodworth, Life and Confession of James Hudson,
                            20–21, appendix; Johnston to Noble, December 21, 1824, 
                                Piqua
                             Agency, M234, roll 669.
                  
                     78 Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches, 57;
                            Woodworth, Life and Confession of James Hudson, 20.
               
                     was "that Capt. Berry would take care of his body and
                    deliver it over to his friends."79
            
            James Hudson was then hanged by the neck. His body hung motionless for thirty-five minutes when it
                    was taken down and placed in a coffin. The next day he was buried in the village burial ground north
                    of the falls.
            Little of interest happened during the winter of 1825 with regard to the remaining murderers. In his
                    annual message to the Indiana General Assembly a day before Hudson's execution, Governor
                    Hendricks reported the "melancholy occurrence of the murder of some Indians on the frontier
                    settlements of the state," as well as the "arrest and imprisonment … of
                    several persons charged with such crime." He recommended that the expenses incurred by the
                    county be paid from the state treasury and that the assembly give strong consideration to
                    legislation authorizing special sessions of the courts. Before the governor's
                    recommendation Johnston had paid all expenses from federal funds, including compensation for the
                    prosecuting attorneys, the sheriff, the county clerk, and even the associate judges; construction of
                    the jail; boarding the guard; and supplying whiskey, firewood, chains, and locks to secure the
                        prisoners.80
            
            The drama began again on Monday, May 9, 1825, when the Third Judicial Circuit Court opened its
                    session. The judges, including the newly appointed president judge, Miles C. Eggleston, were seated,
                    court personnel were present, and the courtroom was packed with excited spectators. The court no
                    longer worked under a severe time limitation, since the General Assembly had lengthened the number
                    of days circuit courts could remain in session. The first order of business was to call the grand
                    jury and charge the prisoners, a task that required most of the first day. On the second day it was
                    decided to try Andrew Sawyer, first for the murder of an Indian woman and a small child. The trial
                    was swift, and after the jury was charged as to the law by Judge Eggleston, the court adjourned for
                        dinner.81
            
            The jury deliberated for fifteen hours. At ten o'clock Wednesday morning, with all
                    assembled, the foreman read the verdict. "We the jury do find that the defendant, Andrew
                    Sawyer, is guilty of manslaughter in the second count of the indictment." Sawyer was to be
                    confined at hard labor in the state prison for two full years and fined one hundred 
                  
                     79 See note 78.
                  
                     80 Logan Esarey, ed., Governors Messages and
                            Letters; Vol. III, Messages and Papers of Jonathan Jennings, Ratliff Boon,
                                William Hendricks (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1924), 512, 513; Johnston to McKenney, July 16, 1825, 
                                Piqua
                             Agency, M234, roll 669.
                  
                     81 Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches, 177; 
                                Brookville
                            
                            Inquirer and 
                                    Franklin
                                 Republican, May 25, 1825; Indiana, Laws (1825),
                        20.
               
                     dollars. The jury based their decision on the fact that Sawyer
                    had "acted under mental excitement and rage in the horrid tragedy."82
            
            Wednesday morning opened with the trial of John Bridge, Jr. He was arraigned by the grand jury and
                    pleaded not guilty to two indictments. The first charged him with murdering Logan by stabbing him
                    with a nine-inch hunting knife and the second with aiding and abetting Hudson in the murder of the
                    same Indian man. After arguments were heard, the judge charged the jury once again, and they
                    retired. After three short hours of deliberation, the jurors returned their verdict. "We
                    the jury find the defendant guilty of murder in the first degree as he stands indicted. And further
                    that we recommend the said defendant to the Governor of the State as a fit subject of Executive
                    Mercy and seriously urge his pardon." Because of Bridge's youth, his penitent
                    attitude, and the fact that his father and uncle had seduced him into committing the crime, the jury
                    recommended that the governor pardon the boy.83
            
            On the fourth day, Thursday, the court heard the case of John T. Bridge, Sr. He was tried for
                    murdering and assisting to murder the women and children at Logan's camp. The jury,
                    consulting only a short time, found the defendant guilty. Finally, on Friday, Sawyer was brought up
                    on his final charge, the murder of the Indian Ludlow. The court was fighting fatigue as it listened
                    to "laborious investigation" by the counsel and testimony from the witnesses;
                    nevertheless, the jury found Sawyer guilty of murder in the first degree. Unmoved by his fate,
                    Sawyer produced a smile and had even laughed several times during the proceedings. With that, the
                    trials were over.84
            
            When the morning for sentencing arrived, the prisoners, "with downcast eyes and tottering
                    steps," were escorted into the courtroom under heavy guard. The sheriff commanded silence
                    and the prisoners rose. Standing with tears steaming down his face, John Bridge, Jr., nineteen years
                    old, was the only one of the three who showed any emotion. When Judge Eggleston asked the prisoners
                    why the sentence of death should not pass against them, John T. Bridge, Sr., and Sawyer trivialized
                    their crimes and exhibited no hint of remorse. Young John Bridge, however, burst forward, and, in
                    the presence of his father, stated that "he had nothing to say why the sentence of death
                    should not pass against him; that he … [was] led into this present distressed situation
                    by his father and Uncle Harper-that he did not wish to murder the Indians, but that his father told
                    him that 
                  
                     82
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Inquirer and 
                                    Franklin
                                 Republican, May 25, 1825.
                  
                     83
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, May 17,1825; 
                                Brookville
                            
                            Inquirer and 
                                    Franklin
                                 Republican, May 25, 1825; Secretary of State, Petitions,
                            1825–1857, Box 9, Folder 6, LI 562 (Indiana State Archives).
                  
                     84
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, May 17,1825; 
                                Brookville
                            
                            Inquirer and 
                                    Franklin
                                 Republican, May 25, 1825.
               
                     they were his enemies, and that God commanded him to kill them,
                    and the Holy Scriptures required it."85
            
            A father, a son, and a brother-in-law all stood before Judge Eggleston on the day of sentencing.
                    "A more distressing scene could scarcely be presented," declared an Indiana
                    newspaper. In a "solemn, impressive, and dignified manner," the judge announced to
                    each of the three convicted men the sentence of death by hanging on the third day of June, 1825.86
            
            The defense had lost. For Sawyer and John T. Bridge, Sr., there would be no hope. For John Bridge,
                    Jr., there was one final chance. Bridge seemed to have won the hearts of the people with his
                    dramatic monologue in the courtroom, and he had also secured the recommendation of the court to the
                    governor for clemency. Members of the community soon began circulating a petition that would be
                    presented to the Indiana governor, James B. Ray. Ninety-four petitioners requested that John Bridge,
                    Jr., because of "his youth, ignorance, and the manner which he was led into the
                    transaction" receive a complete pardon.87
            
            The document with the ninety-four signatures is a remarkable "who's who"
                    of early central Indiana. Included were the signatures of many of the jurymen who had served during
                    the trials; Thomas H. Pendleton, who would later establish a town at the falls and give the town his
                    name; William Conner, who had assisted Johnston in his discussions with the Indians; Moses Cox,
                    county clerk; Colonel Conrad Crosely, a prison guard; Charles Tharp, county coroner; Samuel
                    Woodworth, 
                        Indianapolis
                     journalist; Dr. Henry Hiday, whom Hudson accused of providing poison to Thomas Harper
                    in an earlier attempt to murder the Senecas; 
                        Nineveh
                     Berry, prison guard; Peter Jones, the scoundrel who would not allow the dying Indian
                    woman into his home; Martin M. Ray and William R. Morris, defense attorneys from 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; the Reverend Benjamin Miller, Methodist minister; and some of the earliest settlers in 
                        Madison County
                    .88
            
            On the day that Sawyer and the two Bridges were to be executed, large crowds, perhaps
                    "thousands," congregated at the falls on 
                        Fall Creek
                    . A Seneca chief could be seen overlooking the affair from a nearby hill with about
                    twenty of his warriors. Johnston had ensured their presence at this event "much against
                    their will."89 The "gallows" had been built about two
                    hundred feet above the falls on the north side of the creek and were anything but conventional. An
                    observer tells that "a wagon was drawn up on the side of the hill with 
                  
                     85 See note 84; Smith, Early Indiana Trials and
                            Sketches, 179.
                  
                     86 See note 85; Secretary of State, Petitions, 1825–1857,
                            Box 9, Folder 6, LI 562.
                  
                     87 Secretary of State, Petitions, 1825–1857, Box 9, Folder
                            6, LI 562.
                  
                            88
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     89 Charlotte Conover, Concerning the Forefathers; Being a
                                Memoir, with Personal Narrative and Letters of Two Pioneers, Col. Robert Patterson and
                                Col. John Johnston (
                                New York
                            , 1902), 9.
               
                     the wheels on planks, so they would move easy and quickly, a
                    post was placed on the side of the hill just above the wagon; to this post the wagon was fastened by
                    a rope, so that when the rope was cut the wagon would run down the hill without aid."90 As the prisoners would be standing in the rear of the wagon with ropes around
                    their necks, this action would leave them hanging in the air.
            Ten o'clock had come and gone, and John Bridge, Jr., had not received word of pardon from
                    the governor. Losing all hope, he prepared to die. The Reverend John Strange delivered a sermon
                    before the crowds. The sheriff then told the men that "they had but a few minutes to live,
                    and if they had any confessions to make they then had an opportunity." Sawyer declined.
                    John T. Bridge, Sr., arose and told those assembled that he had written his confession, which would
                    be soon published, and that he was partly guilty for the crime that he had committed. He closed by
                    admonishing the spectators, "especially the youth," to "take warning from
                    his untimely end."91
            
            Sawyer and John Bridge, Sr., were positioned in the back of the wagon, ropes were affixed around
                    their necks, and white caps were pulled over their heads. John Bridge, Jr., watched with the crowd
                    because Sheriff Corey wanted to allow as much time as possible for the young man to receive his
                    pardon from the governor. At the signal of the sheriff, the rope holding the wagon was cut, and the
                    wagon barreled down the hill, leaving the two men suffocating with the ropes tight around their
                    necks. Sawyer then demonstrated his unwillingness to die. By sheer strength he liberated his arms,
                    which were tied behind his back, "caught the rope by which he was hanging and raised
                    himself about eighteen inches" in order to fill his lungs with air and "utter
                    several heart rendering groans." The sheriff rushed toward Sawyer, "quickly caught
                    him by his ankles, gave a sudden jerk, which brought the body down, and he died without another
                    struggle. The two bodies hung about thirty minutes while the crowd, the Indians, and young John
                    Bridge, Jr., stood visibly moved by the drama. Afterward, the bodies were taken down and placed in
                    open coffins.92
            
            The wagon was repositioned on the hillside, and the sheriff escorted John Bridge, Jr., to the rear of
                    the wagon. He was "feeble" and required assistance as he climbed onto his gallows.
                    The young man "threw his eyes around upon the audience, and then down upon the coffins,
                    where lay exposed the bodies of his father and uncle." It was said by those who were
                    present that the scene was "one of the most solemn scenes they had ever
                    witnessed." The Reverend Strange 
                  
                     90 John H. B. Nowland, Early Reminiscences of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1870), 166.
                  
                     91
                            Ibid.;
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Inquirer and 
                                    Franklin
                                 Republican, June 21, 1825; Smith, Early Indiana Trials
                                and Sketches, 179.
                  
                     92 See note 91.
               
                     preached once again. When he concluded, John Bridge, Jr., was
                    ordered to stand, which, with his "knees tottering," he did with much difficulty.
                    The rope was adjusted around his neck. The silent onlookers braced themselves and awaited the
                    sheriffs signal, which would send the wagon bolting from under the young man, when suddenly a cheer
                    arose from the rear of the crowd. The sheriff hesitated.93
            
            Everyone watched as a man rode toward the gallows on a large "fancy grey" horse.
                    Handing the reins to an onlooker, the stranger addressed the condemned man standing before him and
                    dramatically declared: "Sir, do you know in whose presence you stand?" Bridge
                    shook his head. The man continued, "There are but two powers known to the law that can save
                    you from hanging by the neck until you are dead, dead, dead; one is the great God of the Universe,
                    the other is J. Brown Ray, Governor of the State of Indiana; the latter stands before you.
                    …" Handing the young man his written pardon, the governor graciously announced,
                    "you are pardoned." Bridge could take no more. Falling "in a
                    swoon," he was caught in the arms of twenty-one-year-old Captain Nineveh Berry, who later
                    described the scene as "thrilling and exciting in the extreme!"94
            
            The crowds responded with hearty approbation, and many sang the praises of the governor. There were
                    some, however, who expressed disfavor that the chief executive had waited until the last possible
                    moment, and there were still others, more cynical, who wondered whether this was a sensational
                    campaign maneuver from a man who had his eye on the upcoming fall elections. Lest there be any
                    question regarding the governor's motivation, consider that the same James B. Ray, one
                    month before, had performed the same last minute stunt when pardoning an old Revolutionary War
                    soldier in 
                        Brookville
                    , Indiana. The governor chose to pardon the old soldier from the gallows at the last
                    minute, causing much the same stir.95
            
            Speaking through their interpreter, Martin Lane, it was said that the Senecas in attendance were in
                    perfect agreement with the governor's decision and that they were
                    "satisfied" with the justice done. Johnston, too, believed that John Bridge, Jr.,
                    "was compelled by his father to be a party in the murder, he is very young and his life
                    appears to be necessary for the support of his mother."96
            
            The whole unfortunate affair was over. John Bridge, Jr., who many presumed had later "died
                    of a broken heart," did quite well after enduring this nightmare. Taking the remnant of his
                    family, he and 
                  
                     93 Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches, 179;
                            Nowland, Early Reminiscences of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 166; 
                                Brookville
                            
                            Inquirer and 
                                    Franklin
                                 Republican, June 21, 1825.
                  
                     94
                            Ibid.; Forkner and Dyson, Historical Sketches of 
                                    Madison County
                                , 423; 
                                Brookville
                            
                            Inquirer and 
                                    Franklin
                                 Republican, June 21, 1825; Nowland, Early Reminiscences
                                of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 166.
                  
                     95 Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches, 23.
                  
                     96
                            Ibid., 179; 
                                Brookville
                            
                            Inquirer and 
                                    Franklin
                                 Republican, June 21,1825; Nowland, Early Reminiscences of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 166; Johnston to McKenney, June 10, 1825, 
                                Piqua
                             Agency, M234, roll 669.
               
                     his grandfather, John Harper, headed home to 
                        Butler County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . For a number of years Bridge worked as a laborer on farms that belonged to friends of
                    his deceased father. He married in 1834. He returned to Indiana in 1837, settled in 
                        Carroll County
                    , and made a modest living in the dry goods business. As far as can be determined, his
                    dark sin would remain a secret to his new 
                        Carroll County
                     neighbors.97
            
            The trials at the falls marked one of the rare times that Indians obtained justice in a grievance
                    against white men in the Northwest Territory. Oliver H. Smith, the author of Early
                        Indiana Trials and Sketches, is mistaken, however, in his claim that it was the first time
                    white men were hanged for killing Indians. There were, for example, a number of capital cases
                    recorded in 
                        Puritan
                    
                    
                        New England
                    .98
            
            Johnston was obviously relieved by the outcome of the trials. In a letter to General Noble he
                    indicated the depth of his concern for the Indians: "I have spent almost 27 years of my
                    life in the public service, 23 of that in managing the Indians and so barbarous an outrage on these
                    wretched people never occurred within my knowledge as the one on 
                        Fall Creek
                    , Indiana. I believe for cold blooded treachery and cruelty the history of the country
                    furnishes no parallel to it."99 The final cost of the trial for the
                    federal government totaled almost seven thousand dollars, all of which passed through
                    Johnston's hands. After the executions the Indian agent's work in 
                        Madison County
                     was finished, and he headed home to 
                  Piqua, Ohio
               . Believing that
                    the friends of the murderers would "try to do him some injury" before he reached
                    his home, Johnston made his way east under cover of darkness, an all but impossible journey in a
                    country without roads. He made it to 
                  Greenville,
                            Ohio
               , where a circus consisting of
                    "an elephant, a monkey and two men" had just left town on its way to 
                        Piqua
                    . Dismounting, he followed the elephant's tracks and arrived home "at
                    daylight, perfectly safe."100
            
            Time moved on, and southern 
                        Madison County
                     quickly fell into an easier rhythm. Attracted by the rich farmland, more settlers chose
                    to live in the area, and the village at the falls of 
                        Fall Creek
                     continued to grow. Thomas H. Pendleton surveyed his farm to the southeast of the falls
                    in January of 1830. Dividing his land into plots, he founded the town that he named after himself.
                    The little Hoosier town would never have the national spotlight again. In 1847, for an unknown
                    reason, Dr. Henry Cook exhumed the remains of a body thought to be one of the men executed in
                        1825.101 It is not known what 
                  
                     97 Kingman Bros., pubs., History of 
                                    Carroll County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1882), 247.
                  
                     98 See Yasuhide Kawashima, 
                        
                                    Puritan
                                 Justice and the Indian (
                                Middletown
                            , Conn., 1986).
                  
                     99 Johnston to Noble, December 21, 1824, 
                                Piqua
                             Agency, M234, roll 669.
                  
                     100 Johnston, "Reminiscences of Sixty Years," 164;
                                Conover, Concerning the Forefathers, 56.
                  
                     101 Forkner and Dyson, Historical Sketches of 
                                    Madison County
                                , 778.
               
                     he intended to find. As time passed, however, the details of the
                    story of the famous massacre and trials were forgotten.
            In 1872 an old retired man came to visit the town of Pendleton. Nobody paid much attention to him as
                    he quietly walked the land around the falls and visited the local cemetery. Perhaps the heavily
                    bearded man who was dressed in a black suit and necktie may have even been out looking around the
                    Big Lick. He did not buy anything, talk to anyone, or need anything. He seemed to be on a personal
                    quest. The somber stranger, sixty-six-year-old John Bridge, Jr., did not stay in 
                        Madison County
                     long and departed town as quietly as he had arrived. He would die at his home in 
                        Delphi
                    , Indiana, four years later in April of 1876.102
            
            
               
                  102 Kingman Bros., pubs., History of 
                                Carroll County
                            , Indiana …, ed. Thomas B. Helm (
                            Chicago
                        , 1882), 247; Forkner and Dyson, Historical Sketches of 
                                Madison County
                            , 778.
            
            
               JOHN BRIDGE, JR., IN HIS LATER YEARS
               
               Reproduced from Kingman Bros., pubs., History of 
                                Carroll County
                            , Indiana …, ed. Thomas B. Helm (
                            Chicago
                        , 1882).
            
         
         
         
            Justice on a Changing Frontier: Deer Lick Creek, 1824–1825
            
                    R. David Edmunds
                    *
                
            The massacre of nine Native Americans at Deer Lick Creek in 
                        Madison County
                    , Indiana, in May, 1824, and the subsequent apprehension, trial, and punishment of the
                    perpetrators of these murders is an interesting case study that is both typical yet remarkable in
                    the general pattern of Indian-white relations in nineteenth-century America. Although, tragically,
                    the brutal slaughter of peaceful Indians was not uncommon on the frontier during this period, the
                    successful prosecution of individuals accused of such crimes was extremely unusual; and the trials,
                    convictions, and executions of James Hudson, John Bridge, Sr., and Andrew Sawyer provide a rare
                    example of what appeared to be equitable frontier justice.
            The decades preceding the murders at Deer Lick Creek bore bloody witness to interracial conflict in
                    the region of the Old Northwest. Although whites and Native Americans were supposedly at peace
                    following the Treaty of Greenville in 1795, the boundary line between Indian and white lands, as
                    delineated by the treaty, was violated more than it was honored, and violence continued. Eager to
                    gain access to rich farmlands within the remaining Indian territories, frontier whites repeatedly
                    crossed over to hunt and settle on Indian lands, and Native Americans who dared to venture near
                    these settlements were often considered fair game by white frontiersmen. In 1801 William Henry
                    Harrison complained that most frontiersmen "consider the murdering of Indians in the
                    highest degree meritorious," while other officials admitted that "the number of
                    those unhappy people who have been killed since the peace of Greenville …is great enough
                    to give a very serious alarm for the consequences." Although Native Americans daily were
                    subjected to "injustice and wrongs of the most provoking character," Indian agents
                    lamented that they had "never heard that any person was ever brought to
                        justice."1
            
            
               
                  * R. David Edmunds is professor of history, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        . He is coauthor, with Joseph L. Peyser, of The Fox Wars: The Mesquakie
                            Challenge to New France (1993) and has written extensively on the Indian peoples of the
                            Great Lakes region.
               
                  1 William Henry Harrison to Henry Dearborn, Secretary of War, July
                        15,1801, in Messages and Letters of William Henry Harrison; Vol. I,
                        1800–1811, ed. Logan
            
            
            Embittered by such treatment, many Indians in 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana turned to the pan-tribal movement of Tecumseh and the Shawnee Prophet, and
                    during the War of 1812 they joined with the British in a last futile attempt to force the Americans
                    from their homelands. In the postwar period American officials continued to purchase Indian lands in
                    the Old Northwest, and pressure mounted for the tribes to leave the region and move west beyond the 
                        Mississippi
                    . Ironically, many Shawnees and Senecas from northern 
                        Ohio
                     had remained loyal to the 
                        United States
                     during the War of 1812 and had assisted the Americans during the conflict, yet white
                    settlement also threatened these friendly Indians as frontiersmen from southern 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                     surged northward after the war to occupy the Auglaize River valley
                    in 
                        Ohio
                     and the fertile prairies north of the 
                        Wabash
                     in Indiana.
            It was a new group of settlers who came to the newly opened lands of central Indiana after 1813.
                    Before the war most migrants who had ventured into southern Indiana were hardened veterans of
                    earlier pioneering efforts in western 
                  Pennsylvania, Virginia
               , or 
                        Kentucky
                    . Many had spent most of their adult lives on the move, residing for short periods at or
                    near the western fringe of white settlement. As a region passed into a more settled state, these
                    early frontiersmen often relocated farther west, again following the frontier as it progressed
                    toward the Mississippi Valley. In addition, most of these first pioneers had
                    lived with the threat (or perceived threat) of Indian warfare much of their lives, and they regarded
                    Native Americans as perennial enemies.
            In contrast, many of the settlers who established homes and communities along the 
                        Wabash
                     in the decade following the War of 1812 were of a different stock. They had been
                    attracted to the upper Wabash Valley by the potentially fertile farmland in the
                    region, but unlike their predecessors they planned to reside permanently in their new homes. Less
                    adventurous than the frontiersmen who earlier had moved into the 
                        Kentucky
                     or Indiana "wilderness," the newcomers formed communities along the 
                        Wabash
                     and its tributaries in 
                        Madison County
                     and envisioned a prosperous (if staid) settled life. They hoped that their small
                    frontier communities would develop into villages or towns similar to those in the east and that they
                    eventually could take their place as "substantial citizens" of a
                    "civilized" region. Moreover, most of these newer, post-War of 1812 settlers had
                    had less exposure to frontier violence and less experience in warfare with Indians. They envisioned
                    their remaining Native American neighbors as a necessary, if temporary, nuisance, but they believed
                    that the federal government eventually would force them to remove from Indiana. They 
                  Esarey (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. VII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1922), 25–31, quotation 25; Arthur St. Clair to James Smith, June
                            4, 1800, in The St. Clair Papers …, ed. William Henry Smith
                            (1881; reprint, 2 vols., 
                                Freeport
                            , N. Y., 1970), II, 495–96; Jacob Burnet to St. Clair, August 20,
                            1800, ibid., 525–26; Address of St. Clair to the territorial
                            legislature, November 5, 1800, ibid., 501–10.
               
                most certainly did not wish to participate in any
                    military campaign against the tribes still in Indiana, and they resented any irresponsible actions
                    that might precipitate Indian warfare.2
            
            The Bridge, Harper, Sawyer, and Hudson families who carried out the Deer Lick Creek massacre appear
                    typical of the earlier frontiersmen who had penetrated the Ohio Valley in the
                    late eighteenth or early nineteenth century. Both Bridge and Harper were from 
                        Hamilton County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , a region that had borne the brunt of Indian raiding prior to the Battle of Fallen
                    Timbers in 1794 and where many residents continued to harbor resentment toward Native Americans. In
                    addition, these three families remained transient: they readily moved from one homestead to the
                    next. Although they had settled in 
                        Madison County
                    , and John T. Bridge at least had been elected to an early county office, they seemed to
                    reside on the periphery of the more settled white community. They participated in community
                    activities such as the Jones's "house raising," but they seemed to be
                    viewed with some reservations by more permanent residents. Indeed, John T. Bridge and particularly
                    Thomas Harper are classic representatives of the earlier settlers usually associated with a more
                    primitive frontier, a time and place in which random violence against Indians was more acceptable.
                    The willingness of Bridge, Harper, and their companions to attack and murder the Senecas is
                    indicative of their callous assumption that all Indians, regardless of their obvious peaceful
                    intentions, should be considered as potential enemies. For these frontier transients the Senecas
                    were outside of any social or moral obligations normally extended to other white Americans. They
                    were envisioned as less than human.
            Ironically, the victims of the Deer Lick massacre were Native Americans with close ties to the 
                        United States
                    . They were residents of Lewis Town, a mixed community of Shawnees and Senecas located
                    on the headwaters of the Great Miami River in modern 
                        Logan County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . During the War of 1812 this multitribal community had been led by Captain Lewis, a
                    Shawnee village chief, and by Logan, another Shawnee/Seneca who was undoubtedly the father or uncle
                    of one of the murder victims. Shawnees and Senecas from this village had opposed the rise of
                    Tecumseh and the Shawnee Prophet and were among the most loyal of those tribesmen who supported the
                    Americans against the British during the War of 1812. They had served as scouts for American
                    military expeditions; had fought with the American army at Fort Meigs, where they had been besieged
                    by Tecumseh and the British; and in October, 1813, had assisted William Henry Harrison at the Battle
                    of the Thames, in which Tecumseh had 
                  
                     2 John Mack Faragher's Sugar Creek: Life on the 
                                    Illinois
                                    Prairie
                                
                      (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1986) provides an excellent case study of class and transition in a
                            community on the midwestern frontier. Also see Malcolm J. Rohrbough, The
                                Trans-Appalachian Frontier: People, Societies, and Institutions,
                            1775–1850 (
                                New York
                            , 1978).
               
                     been killed and the British had been routed.3 Indeed, the elder Logan had been killed in November, 1812, while fighting for the Americans,
                    and both 
                        Logan County
                     and 
                  Logansville, Ohio
               , were subsequently named in his honor.4 In the postwar period Native Americans at 
                        Lewis
                     Town continued their friendship with the 
                        United States
                    , cooperated with 
                        Quaker
                     missionaries, and were considered models of acculturation by federal Indian agents.
                    They were hardly hostile Indians.5
            
            In retrospect, the settlers' arrest of the suspects is not too surprising. At least some of
                    the accused were marginal members of the Deer Lick Creek community, and more established settlers
                    feared Native American retaliation. Led by Moses Cox, the clerk of 
                        Madison County
                    , these citizens first kept the suspects under surveillance, then formed a posse that
                    arrested them. John Johnston's role in the proceedings also is predictable. As an Indian
                    agent entrusted to keep the peace, he was eager to support white settlers who seemed to act in the
                    victims' behalf, and the arrest of the perpetrators certainly assuaged the demands for
                    retribution that emerged from the murdered victims' relatives at 
                        Lewis
                     Town. The continued cooperation between federal and local authorities and the federal
                    government's commitment to pay the considerable expenses involved in the
                    criminals' lengthy incarceration seem remarkable, but federal officials may have had
                    ulterior motives. By 1824 they were already negotiating with Native American leaders from the Lewis
                    Town community for their remaining lands in 
                        Ohio
                     and for their removal to the west. Johnston, Lewis Cass, and other federal officials
                    did not wish to see their efforts jeopardized by senseless violence along the 
                        Wabash
                    .6
            
            
               
                  3 "Copy of an Agreement with the Wyandot, Shawnee, and Mingo
                        chiefs made by William Hull, June 8, 1812," Shawnee File, Great
                            Lakes-Ohio Valley Indian Archives (Glenn A. Black Laboratory
                        of Archaeology, 
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana); John Johnston to John Armstrong, June 4,1813, ibid.; Statement by John
                        Johnston, Tecumseh Papers, 11YY20, Lyman C. Draper Collection (The State Historical Society of
                                
                     Wisconsin, Madison
                  ); Benjamin Stickney to Jacob Fowler, May 3,1813, 
                            Michigan
                         Papers (William L. Clements Library, 
                     Ann
                            Arbor, Michigan
                  ); Harrison
                        to John Armstrong, Secretary of War, October 9, 1813, Letters Received by the Secretary of War,
                        Unregistered Series, Record Group 107, National Archives Microfilm Publication M222, roll 8, pp.
                        3007–13 (National Archives).
               
                  4 Johnston to Henry Brown, December 2,1812, John Johnston Papers (
                            Cincinnati
                         Historical Society); Harrison to William Eustis, Secretary of War, December 14,
                        1812, in Messages and Letters of William Henry Harrison, II,
                        246–48; Robert Breckinridge McAfee, History of the Late War in the
                            Western Country … (
                            Lexington
                        , Ky., 1816), 472–76.
               
                  5 Henry Harvey, History of the Shawnee Indians from the
                        Year 1681 to 1854, Inclusive (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1855), 161–314 passim; Josiah Meigs to John C.
                        Calhoun, April 20, 1820, Shawnee File, Great Lakes-Ohio
                        Valley Indian Archives.
               
                  6 Captain Lewis to James Barbour, Secretary of War, March 9, 1825, Records
                        of the 
                            Michigan
                         Superintendency, 1814–1851, Records of the Bureau of Indian Affairs,
                        Record Group 75, National Archives Microfilm Publication Ml, roll 28, pp. 175–76
                        (National Archives); William Clark to Thomas McKenney, January 11, 1825, Letters Received by the
                        Office of Indian Affairs, 
                            St. Louis
                         Superintendency, National Archives Microfilm Publication M234, roll 747, pp.
                        166–69, ibid.; Speeches of the Shawnee and Cherokee chiefs, January
                        7, 1825, ibid.
               
            
            
            In retrospect, however, the conviction of the perpetrators ranks as a relatively rare instance in
                    which white men accused of murdering Native Americans were convicted by a jury of other settlers. In
                    comparison to the acquittal of John M. Chivington following the brutal massacre of Cheyenne women
                    and children at Sand Creek (1864); the acquittal of the mob who slaughtered almost one hundred
                    peaceful Apaches at Camp Grant in 
                        Arizona
                     (1871); and the repeated exculpation of miners accused of murdering Indians in frontier 
                        California
                    , the Deer Lick Creek convictions and subsequent executions stand out as memorable
                    incidents in the American judicial system. Justice was served. The guilty were punished. The Native
                    American community was satisfied. Yet it might be argued that the guilty were not convicted by a
                    jury of their "peers." The community that had emerged along the central 
                        Wabash
                     was composed of a new class of less adventuresome, more settled pioneers than the
                    earlier frontiersmen who came to the area. Their conviction of the murderers served notice of their
                    own respectability. It also underlined the fact that 
                        Madison County
                     had passed beyond its incipient stage. Those residents who still adhered to the values
                    of a former frontier would be forced to change or pay the consequences.
         
         
         
            How a Boy Earned Money Fifty Years Ago
            
                    William C. Smith Edited by Julie Smith Pyle
                    *
                
            "Fifty years ago," wrote William C. Smith around 1915, "I was a boy in a
                    moderately well-to-do home, located at the edge of an average county seat town of the Corn Belt of
                    Indiana. My training was such that … before I had entered my teens, I was hunting jobs by
                    which I could earn money." Smith's account of his early entrepreneurial activities
                    provides not only an engaging picture of a young boy's ingenuity but also a description of
                    life in a small rural community in central Indiana during the late 1860s and 1870s. The beliefs of
                    the midwestern middle-class small-town/farm family pervade the reminiscences: the work ethic, class
                    distinctions, emphasis on education, importance of and dependence on family. Readers will find
                    valuable information on the thriving local markets in which Smith participated, the excitement of
                    the circus coming to town, and the relationship between town and country residents.
            Smith's recollections center on the community in and around the town of 
                        Kokomo
                     in 
                        Howard County
                    , Indiana, approximately fifty miles north of the capital city of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Founded around 1843, 
                        Kokomo
                     had by 1870 become a thriving county seat with a population of 2,177. Although Smith
                    described "civilization" there as "crude"-the town had no
                    waterworks, gas or electricity, or paved streets or sidewalks-it was a typical small Indiana market
                    center of the time. County histories boasted of wide, tree-lined streets and praised citizens for
                    their "earnestness and enterprise."1
            
            Smith's parents, William B. and Sarah Canine Smith, both descendants of French Huguenots,
                    had moved to 
                        Kokomo
                     from 
                        Montgomery County
                    , Indiana, in 1845. William C. was born in the 
                        Howard County
                     community on April 17,1857. He attended elementary school, 
                  
                     * A granddaughter of William C. Smith, Julie Smith Pyle
                            resides in Carmel, Indiana. The manuscript transcribed below and other of her
                            grandfather's papers and his scrapbook are in her possession. Mrs. Pyle wishes to
                            express her thanks to Barbara Steinson, professor of history, DePauw University, 
                                Greencastle
                            , Indiana, for her invaluable assistance and encouragement in the preparation of
                            this article.
                  
                     1 U.S., Ninth Census, 1870; Vol. I, Population, 125; Charles Blanchard, ed., Counties of Howard and 
                                    Tipton
                                , Indiana: Historical and Biographical (
                                Chicago
                            , 1883), 144–48; Kingman Bros., pubs., Combination Atlas
                                Map of 
                                    Howard County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1877), 20.
               
                     high school, and Howard College2 in 
                        Kokomo
                     and began the study of law in 1875 by reading Timothy Walker's American Law.
               3 In 1876, at the end of his junior year in high school,
                    he entered the Indiana University law school and attended one full year until that department was
                    abolished in 1877.4 In 1878 he was hired by the law firm of 
                        Richmond
                    , Kern, and Moore. Six months later he entered the law office of Garrigus and Moore and
                    was there until March, 1879. By November of 1879, however, he was working in the law office of C. N.
                        Pollard.5 In October, 1880, Smith was admitted to the senior class of the
                    University of 
                        Michigan
                     law school and graduated in March, 1881.
            On January 1, 1883, William C. Smith and Julia Ann Gwin were married by the Reverend L. A. Retts at
                    the Methodist parsonage in 
                        Kokomo
                    . That same day they boarded a train for 
                        Delphi
                     in neighboring 
                        Carroll County
                    , Indiana, where William opened a law office and practiced for the next sixty-one years.
                    He died November 12, 1946, leaving reminiscences and memoirs that help to depict life in middle
                    America in the last half of the nineteenth century.
            
               
                  2 Howard College was founded in 
                            Kokomo
                         around 1869 or 1870. According to one county history, the college had six faculty
                        members and sixty-nine students by the end of 1870, but the institution was apparently suspended
                        in 1871 when its president, Milton B. Hopkins, assumed his duties as State Superintendent of
                        Public Instruction. Combination Atlas Map of 
                                Howard County
                            , 20. See also Jackson Morrow, History of 
                                Howard County
                            , Indiana (2 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1909), 1,332; John Hardin Thomas, "The Academies of Indiana,"
                            Indiana Magazine of History, XI (March, 1915), 36. In his scrapbook Smith
                        indicates that Howard College and the public school in 
                            Kokomo
                         occupied the same building, a fact that may help to explain the seeming discrepancy
                        in the dates of Smith's attendance.
               
                  3 Timothy Walker, Introduction to American Law: Designed as a
                            First Book for Students (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1837). Subsequent editions of this work were published well into the twentieth
                        century.
               
                  4 Former Indiana University President David Starr Jordan
                        (1885–1891) recalled in his autobiography that at some point in the 1860s the Indiana
                        legislature had decided it was "no duty of the people [of the state of Indiana] to help
                        men into these easy professions [law and medicine]." From that time on these two
                        departments were only nominally associated with the university. Although faculty salaries were
                        evidently paid from university funds, students enrolled in medicine and law were not counted as
                        part of the student body, and their classes often met in town rather than on campus. During the
                        1870s the Indiana University Board of Trustees apparently decided that appropriations from the
                        legislature were not sufficient to pay the professors of law or medicine; therefore, both
                        disciplines were suspended altogether. David Starr Jordan, The Days of a Man: Being
                            Memories of a Naturalist, Teacher, and Minor Prophet of Democracy (2 vols.,
                        Yonkers-on-Hudson, N.Y., 1922), I, 145; James Albert Woodburn, History of Indiana
                            University, Vol. 1,1820–1902 (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1940), 280–81, 324; Indiana University, Annual
                            Report of Indiana University, Including the Catalogue …,
                        1876–1877 (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1877), 34–35.
               
                  5 Nathaniel P. Richmond, John Worth Kern, John E. Moore, 
                            Milton
                         Garrigus, and Clark N. Pollard were all influential lawyers in 
                            Howard County
                         during the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries.
            
            
            
               BIRTHPLACE OF WILLIAM C. SMITH
               
               LOCATED 3½ MILES WEST OF KOKOMO, HOWARD COUNTY,
                            INDIANA
               
            
            
               WILLIAM C. SMITH
               
            
            
            
               HOWARD COLLEGE KOKOMO,
                            INDIANA
               
               
                  
                            Howard County
                         Museum, 
                            Kokomo
                        , Indiana.
            
            
            
                    How a Boy Earned Money Fifty Years Ago
                    1
                
            I have heard the question asked; "In what respects do the boys of today differ from those of
                    fifty years ago?". Then, as now they were divided into classes. The poor, the rich, and the
                    moderately well-todo. The poor boy then, as now, had to work in order to exist. The rich boy then,
                    as now, idled his time away and acquired habits that proved a terrible handicap when he arrived to
                    man's estate and began his real struggle for existence. And the boy of the moderately
                    well-to-do home, then, as now, had the best chance in life, because he had proper training in work,
                    study and recreation. And many of the boys of fifty years ago wanted to earn money as many of them
                    do now, and it is interesting to know how they did it.
            Fifty years ago I was a boy in a moderately well-to-do home, located at the edge of an average county
                    seat town of the Corn Belt of Indiana. My training was such that I was put to work at an early age,
                    and before I had entered my teens, I was hunting jobs by which I could earn money. And I will never
                    forget the first job I secured, by which I earned, not a large sum to be sure, yet a sum that looked
                    mighty big to a young, ambitious boy. You'll smile when I tell you the nature of that job.
                    I was attending school in the county seat town, and somehow I had ingratiated myself into the favor
                    of the most brilliant young lawyer of the county seat, who was in love with one of the sweetest and
                    prettiest girls of the town. They had reached that stage in their love affair where existence was
                    miserable unless they could daily see or communicate with each other by written notes. And so they
                    were working the note stunt overtime, and I was employed by the young lawyer to carry their notes at
                    ten cents per, which to me seemed a magnificent salary, and I indulged in riotous living upon it at
                    the corner bakery which dealt in viands delightful to the soul and stomach of a boy, until those
                    notes led to an early marriage, and then I lost my job. It might be of interest to the reader to
                    know that that young lawyer afterwards became a senator and a well known leader of the 
                        United States
                     Senate during one of [Woodrow] Wilson's administrations.2
            
            
               
                  1 With a few exceptions the following transcription retains the spelling,
                        punctuation, and paragraphing of the original typewritten manuscript, which was probably
                        prepared by Smith himself. Whether Smith or someone else inserted the few penciled corrections
                        in the document is unknown. Because most of the emendations deal with what were obvious
                        typographical errors or make the manuscript easier to read, they have been included in this
                        transcription. Other typographical errors; e.g., failure to space between
                        sentences, have also been corrected.
               
                  2 John Worth Kern of 
                            Howard County
                         opened a law office in 
                            Kokomo
                         in 1869 and the following year married Anna Hazzard of that town. He later became
                        quite prominent in the Democratic party both in Indiana and in the nation and served in a number
                        of local and state offices including the Indiana Senate. Defeated for the 
                            United States
                         vice-presidency on the ticket with William Jennings Bryan in 1908, Kern was elected
                        United State senator from the Hoosier state in 1911 but failed in his bid for reelection in
                        1916. He died in 1917. Peter J. Sehlinger, "John W. Kern:
            
            
            Finding myself out of a job, by which I could earn spending money, I began to look for another one,
                    and then, as now, if a boy really wanted a job he could find it. It was then the days of the
                    oldfashioned circus, county fairs, political rallies &c. that brought great crowds to the
                    county seat towns, for they were about the only amusements and diversions of the country people.
            Civilization then in my county seat town was in a crude state. We had no paved streets or walks,
                    electric lights or water works. Water for domestic use was procured from wells, and the old town
                    pump was a conspicuous and beloved object, to which the rich and poor all paid devout devotion.3 And as there was but one upon the public square, so upon circus or other big
                    days of entertainment, vast crowds coaxed and cajoled that old town pump to elevate from the cool
                    depths of the well in which it stood, the cooling waters to quench their thirst.
            That well had a habit of going dry by mid-afternoon if drawn upon too hard in the fore part of the
                    day, and no manner of coaxing or working the pump's handle could bring even a glassful of
                    water from its bottom.
            I had learned of this characteristic of the old well, and it gave me an idea, which when carried into
                    execution made me many a dollar during certain summers of my early life. I first tried out the idea
                    on a circus day. It was the days when Dan Rice's circus was the King Bee among circuses,4 and his circus was billed to show at our town one August day that proved to be
                    one of the hottest days of the year, and it being the dry time of the year, the unpaved streets of
                    our town were deep in thirst-making dust.
            The circus grounds were at the south end of town, and the old pump stood at the south east corner of
                    the public square, and the main passage way of the crowds of people going to and from the circus was
                    past the pump.
            
               A Hoosier Progressive," in Gentlemen from Indiana: National Party
                            Candidates, 1836–1940, ed. Ralph D. Gray (Indiana Historical
                            Collections, Vol. L; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1977), 189–217; Biographical Directory of the Indiana
                            General Assembly; Vol. I, 1816–1899 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1980),220; Claude G. Bowers, Life of John Worth Kern (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1918).
               
                  3 The 
                            Kokomo
                         Waterworks was not founded until 1887, and the town's gas lights were not
                        installed until approximately 1886 or 1887. "
                            Kokomo
                         Water Works Company," brochure in 
                            Kokomo
                         Business and Industry Files, Verticle File (
                            Kokomo
                         Public Library); Jackson Morrow, History of 
                                Howard County
                            , Indiana (2 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1909), I, 232–40.
               
                  4 "Uncle" Dan Rice, whose real name was Daniel McLaren,
                        was one of the most famous circus entertainers in the nineteenth century. His performances
                        included singing, dancing, and joking with the audience; feats of strength; trick riding and
                        animal acts; and poetry recitations. He was well acquainted with some of the nation's
                        leading political, literary, and military figures, including Abraham Lincoln, William Cullen
                        Bryant, and Robert E. Lee. Because of his colorful red, white, and blue costume, Rice, who
                        frequently featured in Thomas Nast's cartoons, may have been the inspiration for Uncle
                        Sam. John C. Kunzog, The One Horse Show. The Life and Times of Dan Rice, Circus
                            Jester and Philanthropist: A Chronicle of Early Circus Days (
                            Jamestown
                        , N.Y., 1962); Maria Ward Brown, The Life and Times of Dan Rice
                        (Long Branch, N.J., 1901).
            
            
            My idea was to set up a lemonade stand in close proximity to the pump, with a generous supply of
                    circus lemonade, whose component parts I am under no obligation to disclose, even though fifty years
                    have elapsed since I compounded it. Suffice it to say, however, that those parts were such that if
                    one glass of the compound was drunk, two more were required to remove the additional thirst it
                    created.
            I knew that sitting for two or more hours upon a backless seat under a circus tent, upon which a hot
                    August sun was pouring its rays, would certainly bring on an overpowering thirst, and that there was
                    no way by which that thirst could be quenched until the town pump was reached, and if the well was
                    dry, then my lemonade stand would be an object of great interest.
            Acting upon these ideas, by the time Dan's circus arrived and was putting up tents, and
                    preparing for the great morning parade, I had collected my paraphernalia and supplies for my
                    lemonade stand, and early had secured the consent of the proprietor of the store in front of which
                    the pump stood, to set up my stand and stock in trade. By nine oclock I was ready for business, and
                    even at that time the handle of the old pump was constantly kept in action, to induce it to lift the
                    cooling waters of the well to the thirsty lips of the multitudes that were arriving in the town. By
                    noon the handle had begun to rear and lift itself aloft, as though the inards of the old pump was in
                    some kind of deep distress, and the pump was emitting heart rendering groans, which actions and
                    sounds looked and sounded good to me, for I knew what it meant and that my wares would soon be in
                    great demand.
            Knowing the old well's frailties, I had early in the day made it yield to me a good supply
                    of water for my lemonade, which I had stored in a safe place ready for the main business of the day.
                    The forenoon trade of my stand consisted in the sale of peanuts, candies and a concoction put up in
                    bottles, well corked, called root beer, a then popular soft drink that possessed a feature that made
                    a lot of fun for those who sold it as well as money.
            By giving a bottle of it a vigorous shake, and quickly extracting the cork, it would cause the foam
                    of the contents to squirt out ten or fifteen feet away from the mouth of the bottle which was
                    stopped by putting your thumb over the bottle's mouth and letting the gas escape slowly.
            To attract attention to my stand, and to inject a little fun into the spirit of the day, I began to
                    loudly extol the virtues of root beer as a cooling beverage, and induced a country swain to buy a
                    bottle for himself and his best girl, and getting them close to the stand, I gave the bottle the
                    proper shake and pointing its neck towards them, deftly extracted the cork, when the foamy contents
                    squirted into their faces to their chagrin, and to the amusement of the onlookers. Of course, I
                    apologized and pretended to make amends, and insisted it was purely an accident, and escaped a much
                    needed licking from the irate swain.
            
            By noon the great crowd of people was wending its way, in eager haste, towards the circus grounds, to
                    be on hand early for the free and side shows pulled off before the regular performance began. Most
                    of the crowd was in too big a hurry to reach the circus grounds to stop at the pump to quench their
                    thirst, which by that time, owing to the conditions of the day was becoming acute. And those who did
                    stop, got little relief, for the actions of the old pump handle by that time were most erratic, and
                    the groans the pump emitted were aggravating and distressing to those who were seeking to quench
                    their thirst, but pleasant contemplation and sweetest music to me, for I thought of the good time
                    coming a few hours later.
            The circus let the crowds loose by four oclock, and if they had been in the midst of the great Sahara
                    Desert, I do not believe they would have been more thirsty. As they neared the old town pump they
                    made a savage assault upon it, but it yielded not a drop to quench their thirst, despite their
                    frantic working of the pump's handle. I was shouting at the top of my voice;
                    "Quench your thirst with cooling lemo-lemo-not the circus kind, but the kind your mother
                    makes." The little liar I was. But that thirsty crowd would have drunk anything that
                    promised the slightest relief.
            The several, well filled tubs of lemonade, with small cakes of ice and a few lemon rinds floating in
                    them, disappeared into the throats of that multitude as fast as I could fill glasses and change
                    money. And when the last drop had been drained, I felt like a millionaire, for I had taken in nearly
                    a hundred dollars, and it was about all profit, and I had made the reputation of being a shrewd,
                    young merchant.
            It wasn't long until I had disastrous competition. Other enterprising, and ambitious boys,
                    learning of my success, encroached upon my business of selling lemonade and root beer, and I had to
                    seek other fields of endeavor.
            My home was at the edge of the county seat town upon a small farm my father owned, and he had another
                    farm three miles out of town. I had learned of winter onions, a species of onions that are planted
                    in the fall, and grow large enough to eat as green onions before winter sets in. Winter does not
                    injure them, and the very first warm days of late winter and early spring they make fine eating. In
                    those days we had no green houses, and no vegetables were shipped from the south, so early in the
                    spring people were crazy for anything green in the vegetable line.
            In this I saw an opportunity for making money, so one fall I induced my father to let me plant a bed
                    of winter onions in his garden. I carefully set and tended the onions until winter set in, when they
                    were in fine condition, and early the next spring I pulled, trimmed and tied them in bunches, which
                    I sold at the grocery stores for five cents per bunch. I carried them to the stores in a large
                    basket on my way to school, and got them ready in the evening after school. It did not interfere
                    with my school work, and it was surprising what a nice  bunch of
                    money my onion bed made me, and as I had no competition I sold all I had.
            One winter I worked another scheme for making money, which did not interfere with my school work, and
                    which made me quite a nice sum, and I was yet a boy in my teens. I had learned that the grocery
                    stores, the only purchasers of farmer's eggs, were packing them in barrels with cut straw
                    for shipment to 
                        New York City
                    . They would put a layer of straw in the bottom of a barrel, pack it well, then a layer
                    of eggs, then a layer of straw and continuing until the barrel was full, but being careful that each
                    layer of straw was well packed by a tamper that fit the inside of the barrel. It required an expert
                    to pack a barrel of eggs in this manner so they would not break in shipping and it required a lot of
                    straw for the purpose. And twenty cents a barrel was paid for the straw well packed.
            I bought my father's straw stack, got the job of furnishing a grocerman with cut straw,
                    rigged up one of those old-fashioned hand straw cutters in my father's barn that mutilated
                    more hands than any machine that was ever on the farm unless it was a corn shredder, and went into
                    the straw business.
            The straw cutter was operated with one hand turning the large wheel, and feeding straw into it with
                    the other hand, and it was so easy to grow careless and shove your hand in too far in feeding it
                    straw when the knives would catch your fingers and in an instant you found yourself minus a finger
                    and perhaps a hand. But I ignored the dangerousness of the machine, and amid the constant warnings
                    of my mother to watch my hand and not get it into the machine, I cut straw one whole winter in the
                    evenings and on Saturdays. I took my father's team, went to the grocery, got the empty
                    barrels, took them home and when filled with straw hauled them back again to the grocery. I became
                    such an expert at that straw cutting job that I could cut from twelve to fifteen barrels a day when
                    I worked at it a full day, and though I chiefly worked at it at odd moments I made quite a sum of
                    money, and it did not interfere with my school duties.
            When about fifteen years of age, my brother, six years older than myself, and I, concluded to work
                    out a scheme for making money. As I stated, we lived upon a little farm adjoining our county seat
                    town, and we decided to plant upon it a watermelon patch although its close proximity to town made
                    it a dangerous undertaking. But we planted quite a large patch near the house and concealed it the
                    best we could by planting large growing corn around it, and saying nothing to outsiders about it. I
                    never saw melons grow like they did, and we succeeded in keeping their location a secret and no town
                    boy knew anything about them, for if he had, those melons would have certainly disappeared some
                    night when we were sound asleep.
            No melons were shipped to our town then, and so when a load of melons from the country appeared upon
                    the streets it was immediately surrounded by a hoard of people hungry for watermelons, 
                    
                    
                    
                     and who were willing to pay fancy prices for them. We took from
                    our hid patch of melons many wagon loads, and sold them on the streets as fast as we could hand them
                    out and change money, and at prices ranging from twenty to seventy five cents each.
            When the town boys asked us where we grew them we promptly answered; "Down on the
                    farm." And they supposing we meant the farm far out in the country made no effort to try
                    and find that patch on our farm at the edge of town, and so we escaped the "night
                    raiders" that season. But the next season they had been put next by some tattletale and our
                    melon growing near town became so precarious a business on account of "night
                    raiders" that we had to seek other fields for making money. But that first season of melon
                    growing it was the understanding that I should have the money for all melons sold under twenty five
                    cents each, and my share amounted to three hundred dollars.
            Being constantly on the lookout for a job by which I could earn money, one summer during the school
                    vacation I found out that one of the grocerman of my county seat town was going to make the
                    innovation in his business of delivering his goods to his customers, something that had never been
                    done in the town before. I learned that he had ordered a delivery wagon made, one of those
                    old-fashioned kind without a top and with a high seat in front for the driver, and that he had
                    purchased a gentle driving mare and harness.
            As I knew how to care for and drive horses, I of course, thought there was the job for me and I went
                    after it with a vim and secured it. And I was sure a proud boy seated in that new, yellow and red
                    wagon, driving the pretty little mare all rigged up with a new set of harness trimmed with shining
                    nickel and brass, the envy of all the boys of the town and the other merchants for the outfit was
                    the first of its kind in the town.
            I got along swimmingly at the job until a mishap occurred that caused a sensation. The little mare
                    was the most sensible and gentlest horse I ever saw, and I soon found out that she would stand
                    unhitched until I took the goods I was delivering into the houses and returned. And despite the fact
                    that the proprietor had repeatedly warned me to be careful with the mare and to run no chances by
                    leaving her unhitched, boy like, I did take the chances to my grief and sorrow.
            One day I started out to deliver a bushel of potatoes and a large empty barrel. Stopping at the house
                    where the potatoes were to be delivered, I left the mare unhitched and disappeared around the corner
                    of the house with the potatoes. Coming back to the front of the house the delivery outfit was not in
                    sight. Dropping the empty basket I held, I started on the run up the street and soon came to the
                    empty barrel and of course, knew what had happened. Going on farther I found the whip and the seat
                    pad. Then when I reached the end of the street at the edge of town I saw far, out in the commons,
                    the mare 
                    
                  GROCER'S ADVERTISEMENT OFFERING DELIVERY SERVICE TO KOKOMO RESIDENTS IN 1872
                  [WHETHER THIS IS THE GROCERY TO WHICH SMITH REFERS IS UNKNOWN.]
                  
                     
                                Kokomo
                            
                            Democrat, March 14, 1872. Courtesy Indiana Division, Indiana State
                            Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                held by a man. She was rearing, and plunging and was all mixed up in the harness that was
                    partially disengaged from the wagon, which lay upside down and was almost wrecked. The man was
                    trying to hold the mare with one hand and cut the harness with the other so as to release her from
                    the wagon.
            A half hour later I was solemnly walking towards the public square of the town, leading the mare by
                    one hand and holding the badly cut and broken harness with the other, and was in a deep brown study.
                    I was trying to frame up some satisfactory explanations for the boss as to how the thing occurred.
                    Suffice it to say I didn't think up any, for the next day I was hunting for another job.
            
            Fifty years ago, there were a lot of boys in my county seat town constantly on the lookout for jobs
                    by which they could earn money. We had no daily newspapers then,5 so newsboys
                    were unknown, but there seemed to be plenty of other jobs that a boy could do, and yet there was
                    great rivalry and competition among the boys for these jobs, and the town boys drew the line on the
                    country boys who came to town looking for jobs. And any boy who lived outside the corporation line
                    was put into the country class, although his home may not have been six squares from the public
                    square, and so I was in their eyes a country boy. And it was woe to the country boy who got a job in
                    town, if he wasn't able to fight for his own or was a coward. While I was not a large,
                    strong boy, yet I was full of fight, and wasn't afraid of the biggest boy in town.
            It got to be the constant sport for the town boys to impose upon the country boys, and many of them
                    were actually driven out of town and were afraid to come back, and this was the condition when I
                    sought my first job in town.
            At that time there was always a store where public auctions were held in the afternoons and nights,
                    every week during the winter season. One method of advertising these auctions was to send a boy out
                    upon the streets with a large hand bell, which he vigorously rang, and he hollered at the top of his
                    voice; "Auction: auction: now going on at the square."
            The job appealed to me, as I had a good, strong voice, and wasn't afraid to let people know
                    I had it, so I applied for and got the job. The first time I started out, I was making good, but was
                    soon set upon by the jealous town boys, who began to torment me, and who tried in every way to put
                    me out of business.
            My father had often told me that he despised a coward, and that if he ever caught me showing the
                    white feather of cowardice he would give me a thrashing. So knowing that I was probably in for a
                    thrashing anyhow, I made up my mind that if I got one it would be from those boys and not from my
                    father. And the way I sailed in upon those boys was a delight to onlookers, and my auction bell
                    proved to be a great weapon of defense. Early in the fight, I succeeded in landing a blow with it
                    upon the cheek of the leader and largest boy of the lot, which cut a great gash in his face, and he
                    set off up the street bleeding like a stuck pig and bellowing like a panic stricken calf, and he
                    bears the scar of that blow to this day.
            With their leader knocked out in the first round, the other boys lost their courage, and sneaked off
                    after their leader and I had gained 
                  
                     5 The first daily newspaper in 
                                Howard County
                             was the 
                                Kokomo
                            
                            Herald, which began publication in 1866 but moved to Anderson, Indiana, in
                            1868. No permanent daily appeared in the county until both the 
                                Kokomo
                            
                            Gazette and the 
                                Kokomo
                            
                            Tribune began daily editions in 1883. John W. Miller, Indiana
                                Newspaper Bibliography (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1982), 173–74.
               
                    
                    
                    
                  WILLIAM C. AND JULIA ANN GWIN SMITH
                  
               
                     the reputation of being a fighter and able to take care of
                    myself, and so was never molested by the town boys again.
            Today, as I ponder upon the careers of the men I knew fifty years ago as boys, men who reached the
                    heights in the political, financial, and business world, I recall that every one of them, when boys,
                    were ever on the hunt for jobs by which they could earn money. And they were never particular about
                    the job either. I have known some of them to wade in the water of creeks up to their waists, day
                    after day, gathering up cobblestones out of which street gutters were made fifty years ago. And they
                    never seemed to balk on any job offered them, even though it was a hard task, for it was work they
                    wanted by which they could earn money. And they were better boys because of the hard tasks they
                    sometimes performed, and became better men on account of them.
            But of course, these boys had opportunities for proper recreation and learning, and it requires a
                    true combination of all these to make the boy and the man worthwhile, and who will be of some value
                    to society.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               James P. Goodrich, Indiana's "Governor Strangelove": A
                        Republican's Infatuation with Soviet Russia. By Benjamin D. Rhodes. ([Cranbury,
                    N.J.]: Susquehanna University Press, 1996. Pp. 191. Map, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $32.50.)
            Governor of Indiana for four years during the era of World War I, and for eight years before that the
                    state chairman of the Republican party, James P. Goodrich left public office with a heartfelt desire
                    to get away, to do something else. The latter turned out to be an interest in, indeed an infatuation
                    with, Soviet Russia, to which then remote nation he journeyed three times during 1921 and 1922 and a
                    fourth time in 1925. He took interest in the great Russian famine of the early postwar years-his
                    initial trips were arranged by Secretary of Commerce Herbert Hoover who persuaded Congress to
                    appropriate $20 million for food. Goodrich traveled to the famine areas, by train and
                    sometimes riverboat, under primitive circumstances. These were no excursions but open-eyed trips to
                    measure the suffering, which was intense, and discern what Americans could do. The governor
                    distinguished himself in his investigations, which he made in the company of the 
                        Stanford
                     University historian Frank A. Golder. It was a selfless work and marked the high point
                    of his life.
            Goodrich advocated trade with the USSR at a time when such advocacy was not popular, and in addition
                    he recommended recognition when it too was beyond the pale of Republican politics. His advocacy of
                    the latter was quiet and careful, for he knew it was hardly possible. He did what he could, which
                    was not a great deal, for Secretary of State Charles E. Hughes was dead set against recognition and
                    so was his successor, Frank B. Kellogg. Goodrich sought out the presidents, with some interest by
                    Warren G. Harding who told him in 1923 that he would consider it after he returned from his 
                        Alaska
                     trip and then died in 
                        San Francisco
                    . Goodrich had an interview with Calvin Coolidge who as was his wont listened carefully
                    and then, after the governor sent him a solicited memorandum, replied with a Coolidgean letter of
                    two sentences.
            Rhodes offers some vignettes of Indiana politics that are amusing-as the politics of the state can
                    be. The governor attended high school with the irrepressible James E. Watson, later the Hoosier
                    senator. The two Jims disliked each other. On one occasion Jim Goodrich wrote to a mutual friend,
                    with the advice to pass the information along, that "there has never been a time and I can
                    cite you to numerous occasions where the interest of the party conflicted with Jim's
                    desires, when he didn't sacrifice the party" (p. 157). Four years before Goodrich
                    died in 1940 the other Jim published his autobiography, that compilation of truth and falsehood, and
                    clearly had given some  thought about how to handle his rival,
                    Goodrich. He did it exquisitely, by not mentioning his name.
            Benjamin D. Rhodes has based his book on the Goodrich papers in the Herbert Hoover Library in West
                    Branch, 
                        Iowa
                    , and has done exceedingly well. Goodrich comes alive in this carefully researched and
                    beautifully written account.
            ROBERT H. FERRELL is Distinguished Professor of History
                    emeritus, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    .
         
         
            
               Buckeye Schoolmaster: A Chronicle of Midwestern Rural Life,
                    1853–1865. Edited by J. Merton 
                        England
                    . (
                  Bowling Green, Ohio
               : 
                        Bowling Green
                     State University Popular Press, 1996. Pp. xiv, 308. Map, illustrations, index.
                    Clothbound, $49.95; paperbound, $24.95.)
            A farmer, miller, teacher, school director, and essayist in 
                        Madison County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , John M. Roberts (1833–1914) was committed to the Democratic party, free
                    schools, and a free press. An ordinary citizen, he was a talented observer and recorder of the human
                    condition. From a collection of Roberts's diaries and manuscripts, editor J. Merton 
                        England
                     selected the material for Buckeye Schoolmaster. Beginning on January
                    17,1853, and ending on December 31,1865, Roberts chronicled crucial years in the American
                    experience-those of rising sectionalism and the Civil War, and the editor's well-crafted
                    introductions to each chapter establish the context for the diarist's entries.
            The nineteen-year-old Roberts made his initial diary entry when attending the local one-room school,
                    studying spelling, Ray's Arithmetic, and grammar. Some of his classmates
                    were as young as five. Already a critic, Roberts found Harriet Beecher Stowe's Uncle Tom's Cabin full of "imaginary evil" and his
                    teacher's instruction disconnected. He continually sought knowledge and availed himself of
                    every opportunity for education, attending geography, singing, grammar, and spelling classes in the
                    evening. His plan to attend Farmers College, near 
                        Cincinnati
                    , was thwarted because he was needed to stand in for his ailing father on the farm and
                    at the mill. In 1858 Roberts, then twenty-five, attended a short teachers' institute and
                    began his teaching career in a one-room school in 
                        Ohio
                    's Palestine-Mt. Sterling area. He earned twenty-five dollars a month, plus
                    board.
            A contribution to educational history, Buckeye Schoolmaster also provides useful
                    social and political information. Roberts's journal reveals the nineteenth-century Middle
                    West's nativism, particularly the region's antagonism to European immigrants,
                    Catholics, and blacks. Roberts feared the influx of Irish Catholics who he believed sought to take
                    political power. A determined Americanist, he wanted to replace any lingering monarchical sympathies
                    on the part of the immigrants with genuine republicanism. Wed to Manifest Destiny,  Roberts portrayed the 
                        United States
                     as the world's "great dispenser of knowledge, light &
                    liberty" (p. 77). In America, "the masterpiece of creation," everything
                    reached "its highest extent" (p. 209). Roberts also commented on 
                        Ohio
                    's internal improvements, especially railroad building.
            A homespun philosopher, the somewhat melancholy Roberts pondered the meaning of life, death, and
                    immortality. Frequently attending revivals and camp meetings, he found that the various
                    denominations offered only incomplete answers to life's basic questions. Rather than hell
                    and damnation, religion should unite the believer with the universal higher power, a benevolent
                    "Supreme Architect."
            Writing on the eve of the Civil War in 1859, Roberts revealed strong antiblack and anti-abolitionist
                    prejudices. Believing that blacks should be cleared from the 
                        Ohio country
                    , he attacked abolitionism at Oberlin College and in the Republican party. He supported
                    Stephen A. Douglas's popular sovereignty and wanted the Fugitive Slave Law rigorously
                    enforced. During the Civil War Roberts was exempted from service because of ill health. He supported
                    General George B. McClellan against Abraham Lincoln in the election of 1864; however, he strongly
                    denied accusations of being a Copperhead, a southern sympathizer. During Reconstruction he supported
                    President Andrew Johnson against the Radical Republicans.
            Recording local people's marriages and births, deaths and funerals, affairs and quarrels,
                    successes and failures, Roberts's diary is a prose version of Edgar Lee Masters's
                        
                  Spoon River Anthology. A keen observer of life, Roberts
                    describes the sicknesses that ravaged the frontier-fever, ague, milk sickness, dropsy, consumption,
                    smallpox, and alcoholism. As he records the deaths of relatives, friends, and neighbors, he provides
                    a brief assessment of their character and contributions.
            
               Buckeye Schoolmaster is recommended for readers interested in local, educational,
                    social, and political history.
            GERALD L. GUTEK is professor of Educational Leadership and
                    Policy Studies and History at Loyola University, 
                        Chicago
                    . His most recent book is Philosophical and Ideological Perspectives in
                        Education (1997).
         
         
            
               An Oral History of Abraham Lincoln: John G. Nicolay's Interviews and
                    Essays. Edited by Michael Burlingame. (Carbondale: Southern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 1996. Pp. xix, 167. Notes, index. $29.95.)
            Michael Burlingame has assembled and edited a handful of oral interviews conducted by President
                    Abraham Lincoln's wartime private secretary, John G. Nicolay, in the 1870s and 1880s in the
                    course of collecting materials for his and John Hay's ten-volume biography of 
                        Lincoln
                    . Also included in Burlingame's collection are two essays that  Nicolay prepared for publication but failed to sell to the newspapers, "
                        Lincoln
                     in the Campaign of 1860" and "Some Incidents in 
                        Lincoln
                    's Journey from 
                        Springfield
                     to 
                        Washington
                    ." As the editor notes, Nicolay, wisely questioning the accuracy of memories
                    sometimes forty or more years old, ultimately did not use the interviews in the biography. However,
                    numerous fragments from them appeared in other works, including Personal Traits of
                        Abraham Lincoln (1919) by his wife, Helen Nicolay. These accounts are familiar to scholars
                    conversant with the stories and anecdotes about 
                        Lincoln
                    's life. Indeed, some of Nicolay's interview subjects told the same
                    stories to other biographers who incorporated them into their works. For his volume Burlingame
                    "translated" the interviews from Nicolay's shorthand notes, which seldom
                    if ever have been viewed by Lincoln scholars.
            Nicolay interviewed 
                        Lincoln
                    's longtime friends and colleagues from his years in 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               , and also his tenure as president. Included were 
                        Lincoln
                     intimates Orville H. Browning, John T. Stuart, William Butler, Ward Lamon, and Leonard
                    Swett and political allies such as Lyman Trumbull, John Sherman, Joseph Holt, Hannibal Hamlin, and
                    James Speed. Interviews with two Indianians, John P. Usher of 
                        Terre Haute
                     and Godlove S. Orth of 
                        Lafayette
                    , also appear in this volume. It is evident from the interviews and his notes that
                    Nicolay solicited stories and anecdotes showing 
                        Lincoln
                    's greatness, generosity, compassion, and morality. He chose his interviewees
                    well and was not disappointed. Numerous such stories were recounted. But Orville Browning's
                    1875 interview, the first in the book, provides in Burlingame's view "startling
                    new information" (p. xvi) about 
                        Lincoln
                    's strange bout with depression in 1841 brought about by his engagement to his
                    future wife, his simultaneous infatuation with another woman, and his realization of the marital
                    mess he was about to get into. Browning spoke of 
                        Lincoln
                    's "constitutional melancholy" and
                    "derange[ment]" (pp. 1–2) during that time. He also noted that the
                    president "always had these spells of melancholy. I have frequently found him in 
                        Washington
                     in these very moods" (p. 3). But the senator concluded on a happier note that
                    Lincoln "was born for better things" and knew he was to undertake "some
                    important predestined labor or work" (pp. 6–7). The sentiments expressed in
                    these last quotations characterize the majority of the interviews presented.
            As is lamentably the norm in academic publishing today, endnotes supplant footnotes in this book. The
                    reader is required to flip back and forth frequently between text and notes. The one advantage of
                    endnotes over footnotes is the freedom they allow the author to delve at length into explanations of
                    the text. However, numerous points raised in the texts of the interviews do not receive the notation
                    that is due them, and in a few cases the notes that appear are wrong. For example, Julia
                    Jayne's dates are 1823–1868, not 1830–1877 (p. 140). Likewise,
                    Senator Thomas Hart Benton's dates are 1782–1858,  not 1816–1879 (p. 143). Also, more explanation of the
                    "translation" required to read Nicolay's difficult shorthand is in order;
                    a photograph of one of the shorthand texts would have been helpful. These quibbles aside, 
                        Lincoln
                     scholars and enthusiasts will appreciate and enjoy this brief work.
            STEPHEN E. TOWNE is an archivist on the staff of the
                    Indiana State Archives, Commission on Public Records, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He is a student of the impact of the Civil War on Indiana and is currently preparing
                    articles for publication relating to civil-military conflict in Indiana.
         
         
            
               On Shaky Ground: The New Madrid Earthquakes of 1811–1812. By Norma
                    Hayes Bagnall. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 1996. Pp. xii, 114. Illustrations, maps, appendices, index. Paperbound,
                    $8.95.)
            About two hundred earthquakes occur every year in the central 
                        United States
                    , the vast majority of them not sensed by people. The most powerful earthquake in the
                    region in the last one hundred years occurred in 1968 and centered on the Wabash
                    Valley Fault in southeastern 
                        Illinois
                    . Few earthquakes in the recorded history of North America, however, can compare to the
                    violent earthquakes of 1811–1812 in southeastern 
                        Missouri
                    . They are the subjects of Norma Hayes Bagnall's book.
            The author's first goal-undertaken in the first half of the bookis to tell the story of what
                    happened to people, their communities, and the landscape during and after those winter months of
                    1811–1812. Using eyewitness accounts and contemporary reports, Bagnall reveals the terror
                    of the people and the devastation of their society and land. It is a difficult task to reconstruct
                    environmental disasters, for there is a tendency to emphasize the most spectacular and egregious,
                    which makes for gripping storytelling but is done at the expense of what happened to most people and
                    most of the land. Not much new is presented in this first part of Bagnall's work, but a
                    wealth of information is provided in a truly engaging style. The author refrains from delving into
                    geophysical explanations for the earthquakes.
            A second goal-in the second half of the book-is to comment on what the future might hold for the
                    seismic region. Included are discussions of earthquake predictions and preparations. National
                    attention focused on New Madrid on December 3, 1990, when a scientist predicted an enhanced chance
                    for an earthquake. Even though none occurred, the prediction and its associated media event alerted
                    people to the reality that they live "on shaky ground." Scientists have divided
                    the region into zones of intensity of earthquake damage. The map of damage in 1811–1812
                    (p. 65) shows the zone of "devastating" damage extending up the Ohio
                        valley to 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, and the zone of "destructive" damage extending
                    northeastward up the Wabash valley past 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Virtually all of Indiana falls within the zone  of
                    "serious" damage. It is unfortunate that the map chosen to show the damage zones
                    of a future major earthquake (p. 77) is simply a series of concentric circles on
                    New Madrid and does not consider geographic variation in geologic structure. As a result, Indiana
                    residents could get a false sense of security, because the prong of "serious
                    damage" that in fact does extend into Indiana is not portrayed.
            The book is one of a series intended primarily for "adult new readers." Do not let
                    that mislead: the ideas of the book are complex, but they are presented in a wonderfully fluent
                    style. The text is uninterrupted by footnotes, and all necessary attributions are incorporated in
                    the paragraphs. A list of thirty-two other works on the seismic region, from popular to scientific,
                    is included. One-fifth of the page space consists of maps, tables, illustrations, and lists. These
                    add interest.
            The author, a professor of English at 
                        Missouri
                     Western State College in 
                        St. Joseph
                    , has family roots in the New Madrid region, and her work reflects her affection for
                    that unique piece of geography. The book is just as much a chronicle of the town of New Madrid as it
                    is of its famous earthquakes.
            WALTER A. SCHROEDER is assistant professor of geography,
                    University of 
                        Missouri
                    -
                        Columbia
                    . He has published on 
                        Missouri
                     water resources, historic prairies, and the biodiversity of 
                        Missouri
                     and is currently working on a historical geography of the Ste. Genevieve District of
                    the eastern Ozarks.
         
         
            
               Black Business in the Black Metropolis: The 
                            Chicago
                         Metropolitan Assurance Company, 1925–1985. By Robert E. Weems, Jr. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1996. Pp. xvii, 158. Notes, tables, illustrations,
                    bibliography, index. $35.00.)
            In one sense this slender monograph is a classic company biography that provides a familiar narrative
                    of business development and decline. In another it is a rare and special study, a valuable addition
                    to a growing cluster of analyses that address African-American entrepreneurship. In spare and
                    uncluttered prose Robert E. Weems chronicles the transformation of a modest burial association on 
                        Chicago
                    's South Side into a middle-sized regional insurance company and, equally
                    important, into a crucial institution for the city's black community. In the 1920s death
                    came to black Chicagoans at twice the citywide rate; and insurance companies seeking
                    African-American clients targeted middle-class prospects, leaving the black working class
                    "largely uninsured" (p. 2). Gambler and funeral home owner Daniel Jackson stepped
                    into the breach in 1925, initiating the Metropolitan Funeral System Association (MFSA), which for
                    fifteen cents weekly assured policyholders a proper burial in the city or, remembering the Great
                    Migration, anywhere inside a thousand mile radius. Two years later, Robert Cole, a former Pullman
                    porter-in-charge who had become MFSA's manager, bought the fledgling firm from Jackson  for five hundred dollars. Cole set it on a sound actuarial
                    footing, hired scores of black commission agents, survived both a series of nasty lawsuits and the
                    Great Depression, and built its client base to 33,000 in 1935, 52,000 by 1939.
            That year, MFSA invested part of its surplus in constructing a South Side headquarters building. The
                    Parkway Ballroom on its second floor "soon became the hub of Bronzeville social
                    activities," (p. 23) joined a decade later by MFSA's elegant Parkway Dining Room.
                    Cole, adept at poker, used a chunk of his Depression-era winnings to erect the
                    adjacent Metropolitan Funeral Parlors, which served clients' grieving families. Given 
                        Chicago
                     banks' reluctance to approve mortgages for black families, MFSA provided real
                    estate loans to prospective neighborhood homeowners, while Cole sponsored "All
                    Negro" radio broadcasts, a popular magazine (Bronzeman,
                    1931–1933), and the 
                        Chicago
                     American Giants in the Negro Baseball League (1932–1935). In the era of
                    segregation MFSA developed into an anchor institution reaching far beyond funerals into a broad
                    range of community services.
            In the late 1940s Cole transformed the firm into a mutual insurance corporation, ultimately named the 
                        Chicago
                     Metropolitan Mutual Assurance Company (CMMAC) following a bizarre lawsuit by
                    Metropolitan Life charging an infringement on its trade name. The 1950s brought dramatic changes,
                    for, as the segregation bar began to lift, CMMAC lost both its leader and its momentum. Cole died in
                    1956, and the ballroom and restaurant commenced running large deficits as their clientele patronized
                    "downtown" showplaces long closed to them. When Cole's successor tried to
                    cut expenses the next year by reducing salesmen's commissions, the agents went on strike.
                    They won a restoration, but morale slumped. Worse, "white" insurance companies
                    commenced aggressively competing for African-American policyholders in the 1960s, whereas CMMAC
                    found it impossible to reach beyond the black community. Although the firm continued to grow, its
                    expansion lagged behind the industry as a whole. In 1980 CMMAC fell off the list of the
                    nation's five hundred largest insurers, and its trade ratings slipped once its mortgage
                    portfolio decayed amid the nagging crisis of the inner city. 
                        Atlanta
                     Life bought the distressed company in 1990, yet, as the author notes, the
                    "collective future" of African-American insurance companies "remains
                    uncertain" (p. 124). In drawing this fine portrait of a 
                        Chicago
                     institution that generated jobs, profits, and service across seven decades, Weems has
                    ably reconstructed its life course and carefully gauged its significance. This work is a welcome
                    addition to both business and African-American history.
            PHILIP SCRANTON is professor of history, Rutgers
                    University-Camden, and director of the Hagley Museum & Library's Center for the
                    History of Business, Technology, and Society, 
                  Wilmington, Delaware
               . His Endless Novelty: Specialty Production and American Industrialization,
                    1865–1925 will be published in the fall of 1997.
         
         
         
            
               Taking Up Serpents: Snake Handlers of Eastern 
                            Kentucky
                        . By David L. Kimbrough. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1995. Pp. xvi, 232. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. Clothbound,
                    $34.95; paperbound, $14.95.)
            Snakes seldom fail to get one's attention. Snake handling, practiced by a small number of
                    Appalachian Pentecostals since early in the century, has thus attracted much publicity though not
                    much serious academic attention. Dennis Covington's Salvation on
                            Sand Mountain
                (1995), for example, is a remarkably self-indulgent
                    work that obtained a great deal of media attention for the author while failing to illuminate the
                    religious dimensions of his subject very significantly.
            David L. Kimbrough, an independent scholar with Appalachian roots and a doctorate in history from
                    Indiana University, has done a much better job with snakes and their aficionados. Kimbrough makes
                    the point initially that snake handling is a highly local practice, thus its study must be rooted in
                    a very specific context. He therefore begins by gathering oral history as a participant-observer in
                    a culture whose language he quite literally speaks. (The work contains many illustrations, including
                    several of the author bedecked with serpents.) This initial description is readable and certainly
                    gets the reader's attention.
            From this contemporary beginning Kimbrough turns to the histories of George W. Hensley of 
                        Tennessee
                    , the movement's probable founder, and of his disciple, Park Saylor. The
                    often-married Hensley, a sometime moonshiner and chain-gang escapee, illustrates the picaresque
                    character of snake-handling culture, in which the sacred and the sordid seem inseparable. (Kimbrough
                    would have done well to cite Wayne Elzey's theoretical perspectives on the phenomenon.) The
                    Saylor family history is traced back to the early nineteenth-century settlement of Appalachia by the
                    Scots-Irish. Although his treatment is plausible, Kimbrough cuts back and forth between general
                    treatments of the region and two cited family histories-of the "Saylors" and
                    "Salyers"-without sufficient annotation to allow the reader to make firm judgments
                    on the credibility of his sources.
            Kimbrough's theoretical argument is stated briefly: snake handling is a symbolic acting out
                    of the encounter between traditional, kinship-based Appalachian culture and the advent of
                    destructive extractive industry from beyond the mountains late in the nineteenth century. The
                    primordial serpent thus becomes associated with a much more recent and specific evil in the garden
                    of Appalachia, an evil that introduced not simply poverty but powerlessness and familial dysfunction
                    into the region. This argument is plausible but, again, not well enough developed. Much of the
                    remainder of the book recounts clashes between snake handlers and the law and soon becomes
                    repetitious.
            
            Kimbrough seems happiest when most specific, especially when he is playing the role of interpreter of
                    and advocate for mountain people now frequently in diaspora in the industrial cities of 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Michigan
                    . His book might have been hewn more carefully in places, but it is one of the best
                    introductions to this perennially fascinating phenomenon.
            PETER W. WILLIAMS is Distinguished Professor of Religion
                    and American Studies, Miami University, 
                  Oxford,
                            Ohio
               . He is the author of Popular Religion in America (1980, 1989).
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Nebraska
                        : An Illustrated History. By Frederick C. Luebke. (
                        Lincoln
                    : University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1995. Pp. xxiv, 405. Illustrations, maps, bibliography, index.
                    $35.00.)
            Most oversize picture histories stir little interest, ending their useful lives on dental office
                    coffee tables and bookstore remainder tables. This book is a welcome exception to the norm, and for
                    all the right reasons. It integrates well-chosen illustrations with intelligent text to tell an
                    important story. Its author and editor has a command of the subject that reveals itself on every
                    page. Both casual browsers and serious students of 
                        Nebraska
                     history will appreciate it.
            The book is part of a "Great Plains Photography" series offered by the publisher.
                    Its more than four hundred pages are sturdily bound and handsomely designed, and the layout refrains
                    from crowding too many illustrations on a single page. High-quality paper ensures that the
                    photographic reproductions have sharp lines and good contrasts.
            Frederick C. Luebke selected illustrations and wrote text for fifty-eight brief topical chapters
                    grouped in five chronological sections. Each section has a brief narrative introduction, and each
                    chapter has a 500-to 800-word essay linking that topic's illustrations. Chapter topics
                    range from events (such as World War II), to places (the siting of the state capital), to distinct
                    groups (Native Americans), to social history (farm life), and to important personalities (George W.
                    Norris). For example, a chapter on nineteenth-century housing illustrates an early log cabin,
                    various styles of "soddies" (sod houses), the "harvesting" of
                    sod for home construction, and a later plains frame house.
            The author taught history for many years at the University of 
                        Nebraska
                     and is a recognized authority on the state, the Great Plains, and immigration history.
                    For the book's principal themes and ideas Luebke acknowledged drawing heavily upon his
                    stimulating earlier essay in Heartland (1988), a collection of middle western
                    state histories. His introduction and the various short essays emphasize the key role of water and
                    land transportation routes in the state's development, its ethnic variety, a special
                    relationship between the people and their land, distinctive economic patterns, and an independent
                    streak in its politics.
            
            The three hundred illustrations include useful maps and some artwork, but photographs predominate.
                    Luebke's major source was the large photographic collection at the 
                        Nebraska State
                     Historical Society, 
                        Lincoln
                    , but he found some materials elsewhere as well. Distinguishing this offering from a
                    more conventional picture book was the author's insistence on selecting illustrations based
                    on their relevance to the themes and topics he selected rather than on a photograph's
                    intrinsic appeal or curiosity. Another good feature is the author's preference for
                    relatively lengthy captions that enable him fully to discuss the context as well as the subject
                    matter of his illustrations.
            This book reinforces the author's reputation as a well-informed historian and painstaking
                    craftsman. The quality of both its text and illustrations are a reflection of his career-long study
                    of the subject. Students of 
                        Nebraska
                     history will welcome it; Hoosiers can find much to enjoy and learn about a distant
                    neighbor in mid-America.
            CULLOM DAVIS is director of The 
                            Lincoln
                         Legal Papers and professor of history emeritus, University of
                            
                  Illinois, Springfield
               . His publications include work on 
                        Illinois
                     and the Middle West.
         
         
            
               Delia Webster and the Underground Railroad. By Randolph Paul Runyon. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1996. Pp. x, 259. Illustrations, map, notes, bibliography, index. $29.95.)
            The title of this book is misleading. On the surface it appears as though 
                        Randolph
                     Paul Runyon's study were a biography of Delia Webster, a white middle-class
                    teacher from Vergennes, 
                        Vermont
                    , who became infamous for her work on the Underground Railroad. The work is, however,
                    less about Webster than about the local political culture surrounding the debates about antislavery
                    and "slave stealing" in small southern towns. Webster serves as a vehicle for
                    exploring the antislavery networks that operated in 
                        Kentucky
                     and extended northward and the fragile line that separated antislavery and proslavery
                    forces in the South. As Runyon demonstrates in his discussion of Webster's relationship
                    with her jailor, 
                        Newton
                     Craig and his family, for example, such lines could easily blur.
            In this narrative Webster, for several reasons, remains a shadowy figure. First, the author has
                    expanded the purview of the study beyond a narrow chronology of Webster's life, an approach
                    that often results in extensive discussions of other people: escaped slaves such as Lewis and
                    Harriet Hayden and William and Ellen Craft; more prominent antislavery activists such as Levi Coffin
                    and Calvin Fairbank; and the Craig family. It is always a difficult task for historians to locate
                    their biographical subjects within a larger social, political, and economic context without losing
                    their focus. Unfortunately, in this book Webster disappears from Runyon's narrative, partly
                    because  Webster herself often disappeared from view,
                    particularly after her release from prison in 1845. Second, Runyon and his research collaborator,
                    William Albert Davis, encountered a problem that women's historians typically face. The
                    documentary evidence on women who are not connected to famous public men is often fragmentary and
                    scattered. Runyon does a remarkable job of piecing together available evidence, such as letters
                    written by and about Webster, court records, deeds of sale, and newspaper articles, to construct the
                    world within which Webster lived and worked.
            The story of Webster's work on the Underground Railroad and, particularly, her interactions
                    with escaped slaves, abolitionists, and local proslavery officials in 
                        Kentucky
                     reveal a number of interrelated themes that deserve further analysis. Runyon's
                    description of the subterfuge that often took place in order to help slaves escape raises intriguing
                    questions about the phenomenon of "passing" and the ways in which abolitionists
                    and light-skinned slaves consciously subverted the very categories of race, class, and gender
                    identity that were used to subordinate women and blacks to facilitate their escapes. The two cases
                    that Runyon discusses, the Hayden escape and the well-known case of William and Ellen Craft, are
                    prime examples. But Runyon's study also reveals that white abolitionists also used societal
                    assumptions of race, gender, and class as a way of "passing." He provides the
                    reader with tantalizing bits of information about the ways in which Webster and many of her cohorts
                    literally masked themselves in order to assist fugitive slaves to the northern free states and 
                        Canada
                    . Webster often exploited her position as a white, middle-class woman in order to escape
                    the scrutiny of slave catchers. Her identity also made a difference in how she was treated by
                    proslavery officials.
            Runyon misses numerous opportunities to explore in greater depth Webster's place in the
                    movement. He only hints at such possibilities. His chapter titles, "On account of her
                    sex," "The error of a woman's heart," and "A very bold
                    and defiant kind of woman," taken from documents about Webster, reveal certain assumptions
                    about race, class, and gender in Webster's time that shaped the way her contemporaries
                    viewed her. People who knew Webster held varying opinions of her character. While some described her
                    as "a bundle of deceit" (p. 180), others staunchly defended her as a woman of high
                    character who was "a good but persecuted woman" (p. 178). To what extent were
                    these comments bound by nineteenth-century middleclass expectations of women's proper
                    behavior? Did some people chastize her for defying middle-class standards of female decorum? Did
                    others defend her on this very same basis? To what extent were assessments of her character based
                    upon the antislavery or proslavery sentiments of the observer who went out of the way to comment on
                    her character? One might never know the answers to these questions,  given the limitations of the evidence, but they are worth raising and
                    exploring because they provide opportunities to understand in greater depth the complexity of
                    Webster's activities.
            SHIRLEY J. YEE is associate professor of history, Women
                    Studies Department, University of 
                        Washington
                    , Seattle.
         
         
            
               Women of the Far Right: The Mothers' Movement and World War II. By Glen
                    Jeansonne. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1996. Pp. xix, 264. Notes, illustrations, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $29.95.)
            
               Women of the Far Right is the first study of the "mothers'
                    movement" that opposed 
                        United States
                     intervention in World War II. Composed of groups such as the National Legion of Mothers
                    of America, the Mothers of Sons Forum, and the National Blue Star Mothers, the mothers'
                    movement was led by extreme right-wing women whose militant message mixed maternalism with
                    fundamentalist Christianity, anticommunism, and antisemitism. Glen Jeansonne persuasively argues
                    that although the mothers' movement was unlike organizations typically linked to
                    women's antiwar activism, its leaders, goals, and efforts merit attention.
            The mothers' movement began in 
                        California
                     in the fall of 1939 and grew into a decentralized confederation of some one hundred
                    groups on both coasts and in the Midwest. Jeansonne cites combined membership figures as high as
                    five million. Members published books, pamphlets, and newsletters; testified before Congress to
                    oppose conscription and Lend-Lease; picketed the White House; collected petitions; and participated
                    in political campaigns. Unlike other isolationist groups such as the America First Committee, the
                    mothers' movement remained active after 1941, resisting the war effort and campaigning for
                    a negotiated peace.
            Jeansonne challenges the accepted understanding of women's political commitments. Led by
                    self-avowed fascists and Nazi sympathizers whose rhetoric was suffused with hate and who endorsed
                    violence, the mothers' movement confounds the common assumption that women naturally abhor
                    war and belligerence. Maternalism here prompted a defense of sons' lives not because wars
                    are bad but because the 
                        United States
                     favored the wrong side. Jeansonne rightly observes that scholars of women and politics
                    prefer to study those of a left or a liberal persuasion and in so doing distort the subject. Greater
                    consideration of right-wing women would complicate and deepen the understanding of women's
                    relationship to politics.
            Jeansonne himself might have pursued this problem further. The mothers' movement, he
                    asserts, was neither conservative nor feminist, and, for the most part, Jeansonne does examine
                    reactionary extremists who also defended patriarchy and male dominance. A few of the leaders in the
                    mothers' movement, however, seem to have been 
                    conservative, feminist, or both. Kathleen Norris, for example, considered herself a feminist and
                    found the antisemitism of fellow leader Elizabeth K. Dilling, author of The Red
                        Network: A "Who's Who" and Handbook of Radicalism for Patriots
                    (1934), so repulsive that she left the National Legion of the Mothers of America. Lyrl Clark Van
                    Huning of We the Mothers Mobilize for America was considerably less moderate than Norris but was far
                    more critical of male power and privilege than Dilling. The diverse if not ambiguous messages
                    concerning gender roles and responsibilities that the various movement leaders broadcast raise
                    questions about the response of listeners and the significance of the mothers' movement for
                    the modern history of women, politics, and even feminism.
            Jeansonne delivers less than a study of a political movement. Separate chapters on the movement in
                    the Midwest and in the East attempt to link the leaders with the thousands of women who attended
                    lectures and rallies, bought subscriptions to newsletters and books, and joined local and national
                    organizations. But the rank and file remain ciphers. An expert on right-wing politics, Jeansonne
                    contends that the sources for a study of the movement are scarce. Perhaps a different research
                    design could confirm and more fully explicate some of his claims, such as that the mothers'
                    movement was strongest in the Midwest. One suspects that the mothers' movement was popular
                    in Indiana in light of the Klan in the 1920s and anticommunism in the 1940s and 1950s, but Jeansonne
                    provides no information about the movement in this state. It is to his credit, however, that
                    Jeansonne investigates this overlooked and disturbing group of activist women. His examination of
                    the mothers' movement is a provocative contribution to knowledge about women and politics
                    in the middle third of this century.
            NANCY GABIN is associate professor of history, Purdue
                    University, West 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana. She is the author of Feminism in the Labor Movement: Women and
                        the United Auto Workers, 1935–1975 (1990) and is working on a history of women
                    in Indiana.
         
         
            
               Teenagers: An American History. By Grace Palladino. (
                        New York
                    : Basic Books, 1996. Pp. xxii, 313. Illustrations, notes, index. $25.00.)
            Teenagers have long fascinated as well as troubled, even frightened, adult society. Although a
                    fleeting stage in everyone's life, adolescence has loomed large in social, cultural,
                    economic, political, criminal, and other public matters. Focusing on high school students from the
                    1930s through the 1960s, Grace Palladino discounts the older generations' "good
                    old days" myopia, which ignores the "story of institution building, market
                    expansion, racial desegregation, and family restructuring" that has taken place since World
                    War II (p. xxi). Age segregating most young people in high schools, a practice well advanced by the
                    Depression, encouraged feelings of youthful  autonomy that led to
                    challenges of adult authority. World War II accelerated teenage confusion and financial
                    independence, created a growing youth market despite wartime shortages, and heightened fears of a
                    much exaggerated juvenile delinquency. Teenage culture blossomed with the return of peace and
                    prosperity. Seventeen and similar magazines spearheaded the concept of a distinct
                    youth market, an idea further promoted by advertising wizard Eugene Gilbert. Rock
                    'n' roll, a musical genre seemingly designed to alienate parents and encourage
                    rebellion, particularly set the young apart.
            Palladino brushes over the historical landscape, drawing heavily on teenage magazines and advice
                    literature in making her case for a fuller understanding of youth culture as a logical modern
                    development rather than something to be feared. She ignores any nineteenthor early twentieth-century
                    antecedents, focusing on the spread of the high school and modern marketing techniques.
                    Concentrating on teenagers as consumers, she downplays adults' fears and fits of control,
                    particularly during and after the 1950s, that resulted in increased attempts to censor music, school
                    curricula, movies, books, magazines, television, and today even the computer internet:
                    "Rock 'n' roll and the expansion of the teenage market may have meant the
                    end of civilization to some adults and the beginning of prosperity to others, but to teenagers
                    hoping to escape the drudgery of a routine life, it promised endless opportunity" (p. 137).
                    Youthful rebellion, smoldering under the surface during the 1950s, erupted through the 1960s, first
                    black then white teenagers challenging the status quo as the baby boomers came of age in a movement
                    particularly marked by Beatlemania. At this point the author briefly switches to college students
                    and the antiwar movement, drugs, and the counterculture. She concludes: "For no matter how
                    many programs the experts devise, or how many rules adults agree to enforce, it is still up to
                    teenagers themselves to decide who they are, what they want to be, and whether they will cooperate
                    with the adult world to get there" (pp. 259–60).
            A pleasant romp through a few decades of youthful social life and the often horrified reactions of
                    parents and other adults, Teenagers seldom gets below the surface to explain why
                    generational clashes have been so prevalent. Are they biological, social, cultural? Have they
                    changed much over time? Matters of race, ethnicity, gender, geography, even class get short shrift.
                    This book is an interesting introduction to the topic, but it falls far short of providing a deeper
                    context for understanding the complex lives of teenagers in the twentieth century. The illustrations
                    are few and far between.
            RONALD D. COHEN is professor of history, Indiana
                    University Northwest, Gary, and the author of Children of the Mill: Schooling and
                        Society in Gary, Indiana, 1906–1960 (1990). He is currently working on Rainbow Quest: Folk Music and American Society, 1940–1970.
         
         
         
            
               Voices from 
                            Vietnam
                        . Edited by Michael E. Stevens; assistant editors, A. Kristen Foster, Ellen D.
                    Goldlust-Gingrich, Regan Rhea. (
                        Madison
                    : Center for Documentary History, State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1996. Pp. xiv, 255. Map, illustrations, suggestions for further reading, index.
                    Clothbound, $24.95; paperbound, $12.95.)
            Michael E. Stevens and his editorial assistants have produced a book on 
                        Vietnam
                     that is part of the series "Voices of the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Past." Beginning in 1994 he and his staff appealed to 
                        Wisconsin
                    's public to loan or donate letters or journals written by the state's
                    57,000 
                        Vietnam
                     veterans. About 230 veterans eventually donated more than 12,000 items, and their
                    contributions form the documentary foundation of this book. The staff then divided the letters into
                    chapters covering such topics as basic training, combat, Tet and Khe Sanh of 1968,
                    American-Vietnamese relations, and the impact of the war on the individual.
            The result is a superb book that should have an appeal not just to residents of 
                        Wisconsin
                     but to the 2.5 million Americans who served, and to anyone interested, in the 
                        Vietnam
                     War. The letters are full of emotion. "I'm actually getting nervous
                    about this war," writes Steven Plue during basic training. "One keeps putting it
                    off in his mind about going and then finally when you realize it's all for real, you get
                    scared" (p. 11). John Abrams described leaving America for 
                        Vietnam
                    , watching "wives and lovers holding onto their men until the last
                    moment" (p. 16). Once in country, most men suffered in the tropical climate. "Your
                        [sic] either are soaking wet from rain or broiling in the sun," wrote
                    Mike Jeffords. "Your head cooks under the helmet" (pp. 18, 20). And then they
                    became foot soldiers, long hours of "human torture," wrote George Godfrey, which
                    had an immediate impact: "There are no boys here, all men, some quite young, but
                    they're men now" (p. 29).
            Like many other studies, this book also demonstrates that after the Tet offensive of 1968, and
                    President Richard Nixon's 1969 policy of slow withdrawal called Vietnamization, morale
                    plummeted in the 
                        United States
                     Armed Forces in Southeast Asia. American soldiers had been fighting for years, with no
                    prospects for victory, and no end in sight. Thomas Downs complained that Nixon's troop
                    withdrawal "won't help me. … He'll leave us to rot over here,
                    and then make excuses when we're wiped out, and what's worse, it will all be in
                    vain because this country is doomed to defeat anyway. Without us, this country will fall"
                    (p. 114). Draftee Dave Daley noted increased drug use and recorded a speech by his sergeant who told
                    his soldiers: "I don't mind you smoking pot in here [on the base]. You can go into
                    that hootch and blow the roof off if you want to, but don't let me catch you doing it in
                    the field. If somebody gets zapped because you were smoking pot, you're not gonna make it
                    back babe" (p. 35).
            
            The 
                        Vietnam
                     experience is all here, from the Bob Hope shows, "that Barbara McNair is
                    really a beautiful Negro and she can really sing," to combat fatigue:
                    "I'm so sick I really am," wrote Jeffrey Fields, "I'm
                    tired physically and mentally-I've got 60 rotten, filthy days left" (p. 63). Also
                    included is the diary of pilot and prisoner of war Fredric Flom, who wrote of his fear and torture
                    while being imprisoned for over six years in Hanoi, and the thoughts of service personnel toward
                    protesters back home, which are surprisingly mild.
            Stevens and his assistant editors have produced an excellent volume, one full of emotion, courage,
                    and frustration. Voices from 
                            Vietnam
                        
                is a credit to all veterans and necessary reading for historians of
                    America's longest war.
            TERRY ANDERSON, a 
                        Vietnam
                     veteran, is professor of history, 
                        Texas
                     A & M University, College Station. His most recent book is about protesters,
                        The Movement and The Sixties (1994), and he now is writing a survey of the
                    1960s.
         
         
            
               The Myth of Political Correctness: The Conservative Attack on Higher Education.
                    By John K. Wilson. (Durham, N.C.: Duke University Press, 1995. Pp. xv, 205. Notes, index.
                    Clothbound, $44.95; paperbound, $14.95.)
            This is a book by a veteran of the culture wars. A senior at the University of 
                        Illinois
                     when he first encountered the phrase "political correctness," John K.
                    Wilson wondered why he had not experienced the leftist "thought police" that
                    national magazines reported were controlling campuses across the nation. Assigned Allan
                    Bloom's The Closing of the American Mind (1987) as a freshman and
                    Plato's Republic five times in his later undergraduate career,
                    Wilson's experience told him the canon was still alive and well. Moving on to the
                    University of 
                        Chicago
                    , graduate work with the Committee on Social Thought there, and editorship of Democratic Culture, the newsletter of Teachers for a Democratic Culture, he found
                    less political correctness than chilling evidence of racism, sexism, and homophobia on campus.
            Wilson's thesis is that conservative critics of higher education in the early 1990s seized
                    upon the phrase "political correctness" as a rallying cry "behind which
                    all of their enemies-multiculturalism, affirmative action, speech codes, feminism, and tenured
                    radicals-could be united into a single conspiracy" (p. 1). A network of conservative
                    writers, their efforts nourished and underwritten by several conservative foundations, were able, he
                    argues, to parlay anecdotes, half truths, and misleading reporting into a larger myth that found
                    ready acceptance among reporters and a public already angry about rising college costs and a tight
                    job market for new graduates.
            The author is at his best in chronicling the way in which the notion of political correctness swept
                    into the national consciousness. Borrowing from the old political left, who applied the term politically  correct to individuals as a kind
                    of mockery, conservatives of the 1980s transformed the phrase into political
                        correctness, a label for an ideology that had corrupted the nation's colleges and
                    universities. Pinpointing 1991 as the year when the phrase took on a larger significance, Wilson
                    identifies a University of 
                        Michigan
                     commencement address by George Bush as a key moment that captured national media
                    attention. Major treatment of stories about political correctness had earlier appeared in Newsweek, the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times, and a special issue of New Republic; but in the weeks
                    after Bush's speech, political correctness was the focus of seven national television shows
                        (This Week with David Brinkley, Nightline, Good Morning America, Crossfire,
                        MacNeil-Lehrer Newshour, Evans and Novak, and Firing Line).
            
            Frequently reporters focused on anecdotes in which faculty or students were portrayed as victims of
                    militant feminists, gays, and others out to destroy the traditional curriculum and suppress free
                    speech. Wilson does not deny that episodes of suppression did occur. Moreover, he admits that some
                    of what conservatives attacked was just plain silly. He cites, for example, Smith College's
                    handout to incoming freshmen castigating "lookism" for "the belief that
                    appearance is an indicator of a person's value; the construction of a standard for
                    beauty/attractiveness and oppression through stereotypes and generalizations of both those who do
                    not fit that standard and those who do" (pp. 93–94). Similarly, Antioch
                    College's much ridiculed sexual conduct policy, which admonished students to obtain verbal
                    consent before initiating sexual or physical contact, was ripe for parody by George Will as
                    "sex amidst semicolons" (p. 119).
            The central purpose of Wilson's book, however, is to dissect the myth behind the political
                    correctness label. The edifice of political correctness was built on four ideas: the teaching of
                    western culture is being destroyed, students' and others' rights to free
                    expression are being decimated by rigid speech codes, students and teachers alike are intimidated by
                    sexual correctness and militant feminism, and, finally, educational standards are being lowered by
                    reverse discrimination.
            Wilson argues, for example, that accounts of multiculturalists' takeovers of the
                    undergraduate curriculum at such prestigious universities as 
                        Stanford
                     (the focus of repeated attacks by then National Endowment for the Humanities Chair
                    William Bennett and Dinesh D'Souza in his Illiberal Education [1991]) and
                    the University of 
                        Texas
                     (assailed by 
                        New York
                    
                    Times reporter Richard Bernstein and Martin Anderson in his Impostors
                        in the Temple [1992]) did not bear up under close scrutiny. Rather, he says, they were
                    built on sensational anecdotes persistently retold and unsubstantiated claims. On the oft-repeated
                    story of Jesse Jackson leading a group of 
                        Stanford
                     protesters in a chorus of "hey, hey, ho, ho, Western culture has got to
                    go," Wilson reports that Bennett later had to admit "perhaps the Reverend Jackson
                    was not chanting" (p. 67). On the charges of 
                        Stanford
                    
                     faculty's being intimidated by crowds of demonstrating
                    students during a key debate and vote on replacing "Western Culture" with a new
                    "Culture, Ideas, and Values" course, Wilson cites evidence that many of those
                    involved perceived no intimidation and were in fact unaware of any demonstrators. About the more
                    general claims of the decline of western civilization in the curriculum, he asserts that he has been
                    unable to document any instance of a traditional classic text being banned from a classroom for
                    racist or sexist content. "Contrary to the fears of traditionalists," he
                    concludes, "it is the traditional curricular view-not the multicultural one-that prevails
                    at nearly every college in the country" (p. 88).
            Some speech codes, Wilson admits, have been "ill advised" and as a result struck
                    down by the courts. Still, he believes, sensational accounts of thought police patrolling the
                    nation's campuses bear little relationship to reality. He cites studies which show that
                    only about half of the institutions of higher education have such codes, and few instances of
                    students being penalized under them have been reported.
            Sexual harassment codes, Wilson would argue, have been little enforced and remain badly needed. He is
                    perhaps most successful in countering conservatives' reporting on sexual
                    "correctness," marshaling ample evidence that sexual harassment and even violence
                    are far more widespread on campus than administrators in higher education like to admit.
            On the issue of reserve discrimination Wilson points out, as have many others, that by indicators one
                    can scientifically measuresalary, tenure status, and so forth-white males are doing very well in
                    academe. He blames much of the myth of reverse discrimination on a poor job market for new Ph.D.s
                    which fosters a sense of victimization on the part of those left out.
            All in all, this is a useful and thought-provoking book that should be read by all those involved in
                    higher education or in cultural institutions that have been a major front of the culture wars.
            ARNITA JONES is executive director of the Organization of
                    American Historians.
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               The 
                            German
                        -Language Press in Indiana: A Bibliography. Compiled by James P. Ziegler. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Max Kade German-American Center, Indiana University-Purdue University at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and Indiana 
                        German
                     Heritage Society, Inc., 1994. Pp. vii, 61. Map, appendices, illustrations,
                    bibliography, indices. Paperbound, $12.80, plus $1.75 shipping. Order from
                    NCSA Literatur, 430 S. Kelp Grove Rd., 
                        Nashville
                    , IN 47448.) Scholars of journalism and anyone interested in primary-source research
                    into Germans in Indiana will welcome James P. Ziegler's publication. He has produced a
                    well-annotated listing of more than two hundred 
                        German
                     language newspapers and periodicals published in Indiana. The bibliography is organized
                    by county and city; each listing provides dates of publication, frequency of publication, names of
                    publishers, changes in title, and the names of the research collections that hold the papers. A map
                    of Indiana counties highlights those that had 
                        German
                     language publications. Appendices include selected articles from various newspapers and
                    examples of mastheads. Dawn E. Bakken, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Finding the Grain: Pioneer 
                            German
                         Journals and Letters From 
                            Dubois County
                        , Indiana. Edited by Norbert Krapf. Revised and expanded edition. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Max Kade German-American Center, Indiana University-Purdue University at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and Indiana 
                        German
                     Heritage Society, with 
                        Dubois County
                     Historical Society, 1996. Pp. xxii, 281. Illustrations, notes, map, bibliography.
                    Paperbound, $18.00, plus $3.00 shipping. Order from NCSA Literatur, 430 S.
                    Kelp Grove Rd., 
                        Nashville
                    , IN 47448.) Norbert Krapf has substantially expanded a twenty-year-old collection of
                    documents relating to the early 
                        German
                    -American settlement of Indiana. A particularly important addition to the collection is
                    a series of letters, dating from the 1830s through the 1850s, written by Catholic missionary priest
                    Joseph Kundek. Kundek's letters reveal the extensive travel and enormous work load required
                    of early missionaries and also provide considerable insight into anti-Catholic prejudice. All the
                    documents have thorough introductions and annotations. Historians both of early midwestern religion
                    and immigration will be grateful for the texts made available in this volume. Dawn E.
                        Bakken, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               How Soldiers Were Made; or The War as I Saw It under Buell, Rosecrans, Thomas, Grant and
                        Sherman. By Benjamin F. Scribner. (New 
                        Albany
                    , Ind., 1887; reprinted, 
                        Huntington
                    , W.Va.: Blue Acorn  Press, 1995. Pp. 316.
                    Illustrations, index. $27.50.) Not an officer's account of the Civil War based
                    on official documents nor yet the common soldier's story of the tedium and routine of daily
                    camp life, Benjamin F. Scribner's memoir is, as he admits, personal, introspective,
                    emotional, and subjective. It is the war as he saw it from his rank, command, and location. A
                    respected resident of New 
                        Albany
                    , Indiana, when the Civil War began, Scribner served during the conflict as colonel of
                    the 38th Indiana Volunteer Infantry Regiment and as a brigade commander in the 1st Division, 14th
                    Corps, Army of the 
                        Cumberland
                    . He fought at Stones River, Chickamauga, Lookout
                        Mountain, Missionary Ridge, Resaca, and Kennesaw Mountain before
                    his health broke during the 
                        Atlanta
                     campaign. Astute, articulate, intuitive, Scribner describes the obscenities of war;
                    plumbs the personalities of those with whom he served; "deals with such experiences as
                    soldiers talk about when they meet each other at their re-unions and camp-fires" (p. [4]);
                    and, most tellingly, recognizes the changes effected by the war as "soldiers were
                    made" and as the South slowly crumbled. "The influence of the women of the South
                    upon public opinion was paramount," he wrote. "The bitterness of the Southern
                    woman will be the last to yield" (pp. 132, 133). Of his fellow Hoosiers Scribner observed,
                    "Had it been told my men in the beginning that colored soldiers would be employed, that
                    slaves would be taken as contraband of war, or that their freedom would be proclaimed, there would
                    have been but few who would have enlisted at the time," but as the war progressed, there
                    were but few who would have refused to admit "the necessity of the changes in
                    policy" (pp. 131–32). Long out of print, Scribner's memoir deserves
                    more recognition than it has heretofore been accorded. Blue Acorn Press is to be commended for this
                    reprint edition. Order from Blue Acorn Press, Box 2684, 
                        Huntington
                    , WV 25726. Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               
                  
                            Ohio
                        's Railway Age in Postcards. By H. Roger Grant.
                            (
                  Akron, Ohio
               : University of Akron Press, 1996. Pp. x, 203. Illustrations, map,
                    notes, index. $32.95.) Noting that "railroad activity peaked when picture
                    postcards were in vogue" (p. ix), prolific author and transportation historian H. Roger
                    Grant documents the history of the railroad in 
                        Ohio
                     as seen through the postcard. After a succinct introduction to the history of railroads
                    in the state, Grant introduces over 150 postcards of depots, locomotives, rail yards, train wrecks,
                    railroad employees, and train passengers, annotating each with informative captions. This small,
                    well-produced book will appeal to train aficionados, postcard collectors, and students of 
                        Ohio
                     history. Dawn E. Bakken, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
            
               
                  
                            Ohio
                         Place Names. By Larry L. Miller. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1996. Pp. xiii, 286. $25.95.) Following closely
                    on the heels of Ronald L. Baker's From Needmore to Prosperity: Hoosier Place
                        Names in Folklore and History (1995), Miller's book covering more than 2,500 
                        Ohio
                     places will appeal to the same audience. Historians will appreciate the detailed
                    research involved in discovering the sources for town names. Collectors of quirky place names will
                    appreciate such entries as Bird's Run, Center of the World, and Tick Ridge. Sometimes the
                    history of the name is as interesting as the name itself: Empire began as Stumptown "after
                    a notable stand of trees was cut down" (p. 74), then became Shanghai after the same-named
                    breed of chicken was introduced, then was renamed 
                        Olive City
                     for the daughter of a town founder, and finally was renamed again for a sewer pipe
                    company. But the best name, and best story, may be the town of Knockemstiff, probably so called for
                    its homegrown moonshine. Dawn E. Bakken, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               The Orphan Trains. By Annette R. Fry. (
                        New York
                    : Silver Burdett Press, 1994. Pp. 96. Illustrations, notes, appendices, bibliography,
                    index. $14.95.) From the 1830s until the beginning of the Great Depression, tens of
                    thousands of children, some orphaned and others from destitute families, left the crowded cities of
                    the East for the farms and towns of the Midwest. The orphan trains were longrunning social welfare
                    experiments that have recently become known again through Marilyn Holt's book The Orphan Trains (1992) and a 1995 PBS documentary of the same name. Fry's book
                    tells the same story for young readers. She makes good use of illustrations and stories of
                    individual children to help bring the experiences of the train riders alive for her audience. The
                    book also contains suggestions for further reading. Dawn E. Bakken, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
         
         
            Erratum
            In the December, 1996, issue the source notes for figures 2 and 3 on page 308 were switched. The note
                    for figure 2 should read, "Sample from U.S., Fourteenth Census, 1920, Population Schedules
                    for 
                        Delaware County
                    , Indiana." The note for figure 3 should read, "U.S. Fourteenth Census, 1920: Vol. II, Population, 636–40.
         
         
         
            Recent Articles, Books, Pamphlets, Dissertations, and Other Publications in Indiana History
            
                    Compiled by Leigh Darbee
                
            
               Editor's Note. This list of articles, books, pamphlets, and dissertations
                    published from 1992 through 1996 is intended as a bibliographic contribution to Indiana's
                    history. The list will normally appear in each March issue of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History. Since no list of this kind can ever be exhaustive, we hope that readers will help
                    us by sending items for possible future inclusion. We are especially interested in listing
                    publications that contribute to the understanding of Indiana's past but that are not
                    usually reviewed in the IMH. Generally, we will not list newspaper articles or accounts of local
                    historical society activities, but printed pamphlets as well as journal articles may be listed. All
                    such items for the March, 1998, issue must be received by November 1, 1997. Many people have
                    contributed to the present list, but major responsibility has rested with Leigh Darbee of the
                    Indiana Historical Society.
            
               Aimone, Alan C, and Barbara A. Aimone, A User's Guide to the Official
                            Records of the American Civil War (Shippensburg, Pa.: White Mane Publishing Company,
                        1993).
               Ambrose, Stephen E., "Ike, Beetle, and D-Day: The Hoosier at Supreme
                        Headquarters," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VIII
                        (Summer, 1996).
               Ambrose, Stephen E., "Starting West: Meriwether Lewis's Ohio
                        River Journey," Timeline, XIII (January/February, 1996).
               
                  TheAntioch Church of the Brethren (
                            Muncie
                        , Ind.: The church, 1995). Arndt, Karl J. R., George Rapp's
                            Disciples: Pioneers and Heirs (
                            Evansville
                        : University of Southern Indiana Press, 1992).
               Arnott, Beulah M., et al., The 
                                Jasper County
                             Courthouse Centennial, 1896–1996 (
                            Rensselaer
                        , Ind.: 
                            Jasper County
                         Board of Commissioners, 1996). Order from: The author, 128 S. Augusta, 
                            Rensselaer
                        , IN 47978.
               Baker, Ronald L., "George Washington Buckner: Hoosier Physician and
                        Diplomat," Black History News & Notes, No. 62 (November, 1995).
               Balkema, Richard, "Proportionality and Competition in Nominating and Electing Members
                        of the Indiana House of Representatives: 1976–1994," Indiana Academy of the
                        Social Sciences Proceedings, XXX, 3rd ser. (1995).
               Ballantyne, Dorothy D., and Elin B. Christianson, Hobart Memories (Hobart:
                        Hobart Historical Society, Inc., 1996).
               
               Barada, Paul W., Courthouse Images: The 
                                Rush County
                             Courthouse at Its Centennial, 1896–1996 (
                            Rushville
                        : [s.n.], 1996).
               Barrows, Robert G., "'Building Up the State': Women Reformers and
                        Child Welfare Work in Indiana during World War I," Mid-America,
                        LXXVII (Fall, 1995).
               Baxter, Nancy Niblack, "John L. Niblack," Traces of Indiana and
                            Midwestern History, VIII (Fall, 1996).
               Becker, Edwin L., The Story of Northwood: The First Seventy-Five Years in the
                            Life of Northwood Christian Church [in 
                            Indianapolis
                        ] (
                            Indianapolis
                        : The church, 1995).
               Ben Schroeder Saddle Tree Co., Inc., No. 4 Catalog ([
                            Madison
                        , Ind.: Historic 
                            Madison
                         Foundation, Inc., 1995]). Facsimile reprint. Order from: The foundation, 500 West
                        Street, 
                            Madison
                        , IN 47250.
               Blair, Emma Helen, trans, and ed., The Indian Tribes of the Upper
                                Mississippi Valley and the Region of the Great
                            Lakes
                   (
                            Lincoln
                        : University of 
                            Nebraska
                         Press, 1996). Two volumes in one. [Reprint.]
               Blocker, Jack S., Jr., "Black Migration to 
                            Muncie
                        , 1860–1930," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        XCII (December, 1996).
               Blocker, Jack S., Jr., "Home Videos in Words: African-American Oral History
                        Collections in Indiana Archives," Black History News & Notes,
                        No. 62 (November, 1995).
               Blockson, Charles L., The Hippocrene Guide to the Underground Railroad (
                            New York
                        : Hippocrene Books, Inc., 1994).
               Boomhower, Ray, "The Indiana State Capitol," Traces of Indiana
                            and Midwestern History, VIII (Fall, 1996).
               Boomhower, Ray, "Jacob Piatt Dunn, Jr.: Indiana Democrat and Reformer,
                        1888–1911" (M.A. thesis, Indiana University at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1995).
               Boomhower, Ray, "The Lost Astronaut: Virgil I. 'Gus' Grissom of 
                            Mitchell
                        , Indiana," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History,
                        VIII (Spring, 1996).
               Boomhower, Ray, "Mattie Coney," Traces of Indiana and
                            Midwestern History, VIII (Fall, 1996).
               Boomhower, Ray, "Ruthmere: A Beaux Arts Masterpiece," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, VIII (Spring, 1996).
               Boomhower, Ray, "The Wylie House: Home to Indiana University's First
                        President," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VIII (Winter,
                        1996).
               Boritt, Gabor, ed., Of the People, By the People, For the People and Other
                            Quotations from Abraham Lincoln (
                            New York
                        : 
                            Columbia
                         University Press, 1996).
               Bower, Stephen E., The American Army in the Heartland: A History of Fort Benjamin
                            Harrison, 1903–1995 (Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind.: Command History Office,
                        U. S. Army Support Center, 1995).
               
               Brace, Sharron K., Fire on the River (Inglefield, Ind.: APS Publications,
                        1995). [History of fire service in 
                            Evansville
                        .] Order from: The author, P.O. Box 14, Inglefield, IN 47710.
               Brady, Carolyn M., "The Transformation of a Neighborhood: Ransom Place Historic
                        District, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1900–1920" (M.A. thesis, Indiana University at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1996).
               Brady, Carolyn [M.], "
                            Indianapolis
                         and the Great Migration, 1900–1920," Black History
                            News & Notes, No. 65 (August, 1996).
               Brewer, Fredric, Being an Investigation As Well As a Pica or Two of Speculation
                            into the Career and Origin of a Pioneer Indiana Printer Known As the Son of Nox ([
                            Bloomington
                        ]: The author, 1995). [B. 
                            Brown
                         of 
                            Lawrenceburg
                        .] Order from: The author, 4043 Morningside, 
                            Bloomington
                        , IN 47408.
               Brockman, Paul, comp., Guide to Ethnic History Collections [at the Indiana
                        Historical Society] (
                            Indianapolis
                        : The society, 1996).
               Bryant, Betty, Here Comes the Showboat! (
                            Lexington
                        : University Press of 
                            Kentucky
                        , 1994). [Boats on the Ohio River.]
               Buescher, Walter M., Plow Peddler (Macomb, 111.: Glenbridge Publishing,
                        1992). [Allis-Chalmers Corporation.]
               Bundles, A'Lelia, "Madam C. J. Walker," American
                            History, XXXI (July/August, 1996).
               Cahill, Lora Schmidt, Thunderbolt: Revisit Southeastern Indiana with John Hunt
                            Morgan (
                     Attica, Ohio
                  : K-Hill Publications, 1995). Order from: The
                        publisher, Box 91, 
                            Attica
                        , OH 44807.
               Calder, J. Kent, "Ordeal and Renewal: David Laurance Chambers, Hiram Haydn, and Lie Down in Darkness," Journal of Scholarly Publishing, XXVII (April,
                        1996).
               Carnes, John, John Carnes, River Trader: The Edited Flatboat Journals of Hoosier,
                            John Carnes, 1826–1911, ed. Wilma and Everett Davis ([English, Ind.: 
                            Crawford County
                         Historical & Genealogical Society, 199-]). [Indiana Heritage Research Grant
                        product.]
               Carter, Michael, "War Veteran Finds Life After the Cold War," Indiana Preservationist, No. 1 (January/February, 1996). [Fort Benjamin Harrison.]
               Cashin, Joan E., "Black Families in the Old Northwest," Journal
                            of the Early Republic, XV (Fall, 1995).
               Casto, James E., Towboat on the 
                                Ohio
                            
                   (
                            Lexington
                        : University Press of 
                            Kentucky
                        , 1995).
               
                  Celebrating God's Grace: 125 Years, Immanuel Lutheran
                            Church, 
                                Seymour
                            , Indiana, 1870–1995 ([
                            Seymour
                        ?: The church?, 1995]).
               Childs, Ann W., "Cattle Drive," True West, XLIII (July,
                        1996). [Experiences of David Wallace Springer of 
                            Indianapolis
                         in the West after the Civil War.]
               Childs, Ann W., "My Dear Aunties …," American
                            Libraries, XXVII (January, 1996). [Letters of May Z. Springer of 
                            Indianapolis
                        , dated 1900.]
               
               
                  Civil War Unit Histories; Part 4, The Union, West and Midwest:
                            Indiana (Bethesda, Md.: University Publications of America, [1994?]). [Microfiche
                        publication of approximately 200 printed histories of Indiana regiments.]
               Cole, Charles C, Jr., Lion of the Forest: James B. Finley, Frontier Reformer (
                            Lexington
                        : University Press of 
                            Kentucky
                        , 1994).
               Corn, Kevin J., "'Forward Be Our Watchword': Indiana Methodism and
                        the Modern Middle Class" (M.A. thesis, Indiana University at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1996).
               Coyne, Kevin, Domers: A Year at Notre Dame (
                            New York
                        : Viking, 1995).
               Darbee, Leigh, "Convict #9653-For President?" Traces of Indiana
                            and Midwestern History, VIII (Fall, 1996). [Eugene V. Debs.]
               Dean, Eric Thomas, Jr., "In Evident Mental Commotion: Post-Traumatic Stress and the
                        American Civil War" (Ph. D. dissertation, Yale University, 
                            New Haven
                        , Conn., 1996).
               Dean, Lewis S., "'Tecumseh's Prophecy': The Great New
                        Madrid Earthquakes of 1811–1812 and 1843," 
                     
                                Alabama
                             Review, XLVII (July, 1994).
               Dollase, Mark, "Navy's Secret Weapon in a Landlocked Base," Indiana Preservationist, No. 1 (January/February, 1996). [Naval Surface
                        Warfare Center, Crane, Ind.]
               Donnachie, Ian, and George Hewitt, Historic New Lanark: The Dale and Owen
                            Industrial Community Since 1785 (Edinburgh, 
                            Scotland
                        : Edinburgh University Press, 1993).
               Drudge, Casey, Appropriate Response, 1894–1994: The Centennial History
                            of the Church of the Brethren in 
                                Ft. Wayne
                            
                   ([s.n.]: H. C. Drudge, 1994).
               Dunn, Craig L., Iron Men, Iron Will: The Nineteenth Indiana Regiment of the Iron
                            Brigade (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Guild Press, 1995).
               Duvall, Jeffery A., "Ethnicity in a Rural Midwestern Community: 
                            Switzerland County
                        , Indiana in the Twentieth Century" (M.A. thesis, Indiana University at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1995).
               Dyer, Frederick H., A Compendium of the War of the Rebellion ([
                            Wilmington
                        , N. C.]: Broadfoot Publishing Company and 
                     Dayton, Ohio
                  : Morningside
                        Press, 1994). Two volumes. [Reprint.]
               Eaton, Jack L., 
                     
                                Butler
                             University, 
                                Jordan
                             College of Fine Arts: A Chronological History (
                            Indianapolis
                        : 
                            Butler
                         University, 1995).
               Eckert, Allan W., That Dark and Bloody
                            River: Chronicles of the Ohio River Valley (
                            New York
                        : Bantam Books, 1995).
               Elting, John R., Amateurs, To Arms! A Military History of the War of 1812 (
                            New York
                        : Da Capo Press, 1995). [Reprint.]
               Eisen, David, Vital Statistics Index to 
                                St. Joseph County
                            , Indiana, Newspapers, 1831–1912 (
                     Bountiful, Utah
                  : Family History Publishers and 
                            South Bend
                        : Northern Indiana Historical Society, 1995). Two volumes.
               
               Erez-Boukai, Irit, "On the Banks of the 
                            Wabash
                        : Jewish Life in Greater 
                            Lafayette
                        , Indiana, 1840–1960," Indiana Jewish History,
                        XXXI (August, 1996).
               Evans, Daniel F., At Home in Indiana for One Hundred and Seventy-Five Years: The
                            History of 
                                Meridian
                             Street United Methodist (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Guild Press, 1996).
               Ewald, Erich L., Christ Is Our Cornerstone: The Centennial History of St.
                            John's Lutheran Church [in Anderson], 1893–1993 (Anderson: [The
                        church?], 1993).
               Ewald, Erich L., "War at the Crossroads," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XCII (December, 1996).
               "Family Life in the Calumet Region: Social Trends and Racial Tensions During the
                        Nineteen Sixties," Steel Shavings, No. XXV (1996).
               Fauvre, Beverly Raffensperger, Justly Proud: A 
                                German
                             American Family in Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Guild Press, 1995).
               Fehr, Jenny, and Robert Parker, eds., A Pictorial History of 
                                Dearborn County
                            : Volume 1,1000 B. C. to 1940 (
                            Lawrenceburg
                        , Ind.: 
                            Dearborn County
                         Historical Society, 1994). Order from: The society, 
                            Dearborn County
                         Courthouse, 
                            Lawrenceburg
                        , IN 47025.
               Ferrell, Robert H., "Looking Back: The Truman Books," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, XCII (June, 1996).
               
                  First Eel River Baptist Church [in Churubusco]: One Hundred Fifty Years of Serving Our Lord, 1844–1994
                        ([Churubusco, Ind.?: The church?, 1994]).
               Fischer, Suzanne Hayes, "The Best Road South: Early Auto Touring and the Dixie
                        Highway in Indiana" (M.A. thesis, Indiana University at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1995).
               Fisher, James, "A Forgotten Hero Remembered, Revered, and Revised: The Legacy and
                        Ordeal of George Rogers Clark," Indiana Magazine of History, XCII
                        (June, 1996).
               Forstchen, William R., "The 28th 
                            United States
                         Colored Troops: Indiana's African Americans Go to War,
                        1863–1865" (Ph.D. dissertation, Purdue University, West 
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind., 1994).
               Fulks, Danny, "Mail Pouch," Timeline, XIII (July/August,
                        1996). [Mail Pouch barns.]
               Gehring, Wes D., "Red Skelton and Clem Kadiddlehopper," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, XCII (March, 1996).
               Geib, George, "Benjamin Harrison," Traces of Indiana and
                            Midwestern History, VIII (Fall, 1996).
               Gerdts, William H., Theodore Clement Steele, an American Master of Light (
                            New York
                        : Chameleon Books, 1995).
               Ghrist, John Russell, Valley Voices, a Radio History (Carpentersville, 111.:
                        Crossroads Communications, [1996?]). [History of radio broadcasting in northern 
                            Illinois
                         and Indiana.]
               
               Gibbs, Wilma L., comp., Selected African-American History Collections [at
                        the Indiana Historical Society] (
                            Indianapolis
                        : The society, 1996).
               Glee, Glenna, "Information About Indiana Poets" (typescript, 1995?).
                        [Limited distribution; reference copy located at the Indiana Historical Society.]
               Glen, John M., et al., "Indiana Archives: Indiana in the Civil War
                        Era," Indiana Magazine of History, XCII (September, 1996).
               Glickstein, Jonathan A., "Industrialization: Good and Bad," Reviews in American History, XXIV (March, 1996). [Includes a discussion of Peter
                        Way's Common Labour: Workers and the Digging of the North American
                        Canals, 1780–1860.]
               Glowacki, Amy [E.], "Freetown Village Research," Black History
                            News & Notes, No. 63 (February, 1996) and No. 64 (May, 1996).
               Glowacki, Amy E., "Old Ward Four, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1870: A Comparison of the Adult, Male African-American and White
                        Populations" (M.A. thesis, Indiana University at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1994).
               Goldberg, David J., "Unmasking the Ku Klux Klan: The Northern Movement Against the
                        KKK, 1920–1925," Journal of American Ethnic History, XV
                        (Summer, 1996).
               Gould, Todd, "The Game Came First," Hoosierisms Quarterly,
                        I (Summer, 1996). [Negro League baseball teams in Indiana]
               Graham, Laurie, On the Line at Subaru-Isuzu: The Japanese Model and the American
                            Worker (
                            Ithaca
                        , N. Y.: ILR Press, 1995). [Concerns the Subaru-Isuzu plant in 
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind.]
               Gray, Ralph D., "Matthew E. Welsh," Traces of Indiana and
                            Midwestern History, VIII (Fall, 1996).
               Greiff, Glory-June, "Parks for the People: New Deal Work Projects in Indiana State
                        Parks" (M.A. thesis, Indiana University at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1992).
               Gressitt, Alexandra S., comp., Women's History Collections
                        Bibliography (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 1994). [Collections at the society.]
               Gruenwald, Kim Marie, "Settling the Old Northwest: Changing Family and Commercial
                        Strategies in the Early Republic" (Ph. D. dissertation, University of 
                            Colorado
                        , Boulder, 1994).
               Guthrie, Charles, The 
                                Indianapolis
                             Hispanic Community (
                            Indianapolis
                        : University of 
                            Indianapolis
                         Press, 1995).
               Hammon, Neal O., "Research Note: Did George Rogers Clark Close the 
                            Kentucky County
                         Land Office?" Filson Club Historical Quarterly, LXX
                        (July, 1996).
               Harlan, Rita W., "The Central in the City: The Impact of the Central Canal in 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1836–1900" (M.A. thesis, Indiana University at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1996).
               Harstad, Peter T., "Thomas Riley Marshall," Traces of Indiana
                            and Midwestern History, VIII (Fall, 1996).
               
               Henderson, Max F., ed., Barnstorming the Boeing: A True Tale of the Golden Age of
                            Aviation Based on the Original Diary of Floyd B. Henderson and Illustrated with His Own
                            Personal Photographs ([Daytona Beach, Fla.: The editor, 1995]). Order from: The editor,
                        46 General Doolittle Avenue, Daytona Beach, FL 32124.
               "
                            Henry County
                         During World War II," 
                     
                                Henry County
                             Historicatalog, XXIII (Fall, 1995).
               "Here Lie Our Memories," Hoosierisms Quarterly, I (Summer,
                        1996). [Historical cemeteries of Indiana.]
               "Highways of 
                            Marshall County
                        ," 
                            Marshall County
                         Historical Society Quarterly, XXV (Summer, 1996).
               Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, African American Cultural Preservation
                            Project: Final Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : HLFI, 1996). Order this and the following HLFI titles from: Historic Landmarks
                        Foundation of Indiana, 340 W. Michigan Street, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46202.
               Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 
                     
                                Brown County
                             Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : HLFI, 1995).
               Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, Index to Indiana Preservationist,
                        1971–1995 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : HLFI, 1995). [Indiana Heritage Research Grant product.]
               Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 
                     
                                Lake County
                             Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : HLFI, 1996).
               "A History of Cedar Lake," Steel
                        Shavings, No. XXVI (1997).
               
                  History of 
                                DeKalb County
                            , Indiana (
                            Evansville
                        , Ind.: Windmill Publications, 1996). [Reprint of 1914 edition, with an added
                        index.]
               
                  The History of St. Mark's United Methodist Church, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, Compiled for Its Fortieth Anniversary Celebration ([
                            Bloomington
                        ?: The church?, 1994]).
               H'itakonanu'laxk (Tree Beard), The Grandfathers Speak: Native
                            American Folk Tales of the Lenap'e People (
                            New York
                        : Interlink Books, 1994).
               Hoffman, Nicholas von, "When a Party Was a Party: Indiana in the Heyday of
                        Partisanship," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VIII (Fall,
                        1996).
               Holley, Val, James Dean, the Biography (
                            New York
                        : St. Martin's Press, 1995).
               Holloway, Clinton J., History of the First Church of Christ, Bluffton,
                        Indiana ([Bluffton: The church], 1996). Order from: The author, P.O. Box 106, Milligan
                        College, TN 37682.
               Holycross, Fred, "A Home for Old Soldiers Shows Its Age," Indiana Preservationist, No. 1 (January/February, 1996). [National Home for Disabled
                        Volunteer Soldiers, near 
                            Marion
                        , Ind.]
               Hoose, Philip M., Hoosiers: The Fabulous Basketball Life of Indiana, 2nd ed. (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Guild Press, 1995).
               
               Hoover, James W., Leota Williams Loop (
                            Kokomo
                        : 
                            Kokomo
                        -
                            Howard County
                         Public Library, 1996). [Indiana artist.] Order from: The library, 220 N. Union
                        Street, 
                            Kokomo
                        , IN 46901.
               Hoppe, David, "Down to Earth in the Midwest: Scott Russell Sanders and Writing from the Center," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VIII
                        (Spring, 1996).
               Huber, Donald L., "White, Red, and Black: The Wyandot Mission at Upper
                        Sandusky," Timeline, XIII (May/June, 1996).
               Hutchens, Nancy, Memories of a Midwestern Farm [in Indiana] (
                            New York
                        : Pocket Books, 1995).
               Ide, Roger M., In God's Service for 142 Years: A
                            History of Webb Chapel United Methodist Church [
                            Logansport
                        ], 1854–1996 ([
                            Logansport
                        , Ind.?: s.n.], 1996). Order from: The author, 2943 W 100 N, 
                            Logansport
                        , IN 46947.
               Iliff, David G., Jr., A Street Named Smith: Adventure in Yorktown (
                            Indianapolis
                        : 
                            Fall Creek
                         Review, 1996). Order from: 
                            Fall Creek
                         Review, 4625 
                            Laurel
                         Circle, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46226.
               Indiana State Archives, 
                     
                                La Porte
                            -Winamac Land Office Entries, 1833–1855 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana State Archives, [199-]). [Indiana Heritage Research Grant product.]
               Jacobi, Peter P., "Josef Gingold: A Life in Music," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, VIII (Winter, 1996).
               Jacobs, Tevie, "History of Death the Jewish Way in 
                            Indianapolis
                        ," Indiana Jewish History, XXXI (August, 1996).
               Jacobson, Joel, Such a Man as Billy the Kid: The 
                                Lincoln County
                             War Reconsidered (
                            Lincoln
                        : University of 
                            Nebraska
                         Press, 1994).
               Jaffe, Celeste H., "The Spanish Influenza Epidemic in 
                            Indianapolis
                         in 1918: A Study of Civic and Community Responses" (M.A. thesis, Indiana
                        University at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1994).
               Johnson, Yvonne, et al., Embracing the Past, Building the Present, Looking to the
                            Future: A History of the Church of God in Christ, Inc. ([s.l.]: Indiana First
                        Jurisdiction, 1995). [Indiana Heritage Research Grant product.]
               Jones, Wilbur D., Jr., "Scraps from My Army Life: The Remembrances of Private Lewis
                        King," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VIII (Spring, 1996).
               Judd, Barbara, comp., Marie Goth: Painter of Portraits, ed. M. Joanne Nesbit (
                            Nashville
                        , Ind.: Nana's Books, 1996). [Indiana artist.] Order from: The publisher,
                        1454 N. Annandale Drive, 
                            Nashville
                        , IN 47448.
               Keller, Paul, "Life of Billy Sunday," North 
                            Manchester
                         Historical Society Newsletter, XIII (February, 1996).
               Kettler, Robert, "At My Father's Grave," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, VIII (Summer, 1996). [Hoosier casualty of World War
                        II.]
               
               Kimberling, Clark, "David Dale Owen and Joseph Granville Norwood: Pioneer Geologists
                        in Indiana and 
                            Illinois
                        ," Indiana Magazine of History, XCII (March, 1996).
               Lucas, Ernestine Garrett, Wider Windows to the Past. African-American History
                            from a Family Perspective: Stories, Related Events, Relatives, and Incidents
                        …, 2nd printing ([
                     Springfield,
                                Ohio
                  ?]: The author, 1995). Order
                        from: The author, P.O. Box 1082, 
                            Springfield
                        , OH 45501.
               Lugar, Richard G., "Indiana in the Upper House," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, VIII (Fall, 1996).
               MacDonald, Margaret Read, Scipio Storytelling: Talk in a Southern Indiana
                            Community (
                            Lanham
                        , Md.: University Press of America, 1996).
               MacLean, Nancy, Behind the Mask of Chivalry: The Making of the Second Ku Klux
                            Klan (
                            New York
                        : 
                            Oxford
                         University Press, 1994).
               Madison, James H., The Indiana University Department of History,
                        1895–1995: A Centennial Year Sketch ([
                            Bloomington
                        : The department], 1995).
               Madison, James H., "Wendell Willkie," Traces of Indiana and
                            Midwestern History, VIII (Fall, 1996).
               Mancall, Peter C, "Men, Women, and Alcohol in Indian Villages in the Great
                            Lakes Region in the Early Republic," Journal of the Early
                            Republic, XV (Fall, 1995).
               Marchino, Sarah Lynn, "Landmark School Elevates Education," Indiana Preservationist, No. 1 (January/February, 1996). [Woodrow Wilson Junior High
                        School, 
                            Terre Haute
                        , Ind.]
               
                  
                            Marion County
                        -
                            Indianapolis
                         Historical Society, 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            : A Walk Through Time ([
                            Indianapolis
                        : The society, 1996]). Order from: The society, P. O. Box 2223, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46206.
               Marshall, Joan E., "Child Saving in the Progressive Era" (typescript, 199-).
                        [Indiana Heritage Research Grant product.]
               McManus, Gary B., "Daleville's History Preserved" (typescript,
                        1994). [Indiana Heritage Research Grant product.]
               "Merom Public Library," 
                            Sullivan County
                         Historical Society Newsletter, XXII (September, 1995).
               Meyers, Arthur S., "Democracy in the Making: Max Bretton and 
                            Hammond
                        's Beth-El Open Forum," Traces of Indiana and
                            Midwestern History, VIII (Winter, 1996).
               Meyers, Arthur S., "W. E. B. DuBois at Your Public Library," Black History News & Notes, No. 65 (August, 1996).
               Military Department of Indiana, A Line in the Sand: The Indiana National
                            Guard's Mobilization and Deployment … Desert Shield / Desert Storm (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Military Department of Indiana; [
                            Washington
                        , D.C.?: National Guard Bureau], 1995).
               
               Monell, Charles M., and Maurice Monell, Noah Selmon Weddle and the Civil War: His
                            Four Years in Indiana Regiments (Lindsborg, Kans.: Barbo-Carlson Enterprises, 1995).
               Monon Railroad Historical-Technical Society, Sources of Information on the
                        Monon (typescript, [1996]). [Reference copy located at the Indiana Historical Society.]
               Morrow, Barbara O., From Ben-Hur to Sister Carrie (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Guild Press, 1996).
               Muncie, Larry, Iruington Album: A Collection of Historic Photographs of the 
                                Irvington
                             Community [in 
                            Indianapolis
                        ] ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ?: 
                            Irvington
                         Historical Society?], 1994). Order from: The society, 312 S. Downey Avenue, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46219.
               Nassaney, Michael S., and Kenneth E. Sassaman, eds., Native American
                            Interactions: Multiscalar Analyses and Interpretations in the Eastern Woodlands (
                            Knoxville
                        : University of 
                            Tennessee
                         Press, 1995).
               Neville, Susan, "Sacred Space in Ordinary Times," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, VIII (Winter, 1996). [Illustrated with photographs by
                        Kim Charles Ferrill.]
               Noblitt, Loren W., General John H. Morgan's Confederate Guerrilla Troops
                            Invade Indiana: 
                                Jackson County
                             Plunder Thwarted by Muscatatuck River Floodwaters (
                            Brownstown
                        : 
                            Jackson County
                         Historical Society, 1996). Order from: The society, 101–115 N. Sugar
                        Street, 
                            Brownstown
                        , IN 47220.
               Ogden, R. Dale, and J. Ronald Newlin, "Race and Sport in Indiana: Before and After
                        Jackie Robinson," Hoosierisms Quarterly, I (Summer, 1996).
               Oilar, John, "Famed Will Rogers Had Two Local Ties," 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XXI (February, 1996).
               
                  One Hundred & Fifty Years and Counting, 1844–1994: The Story of Grace United Methodist Church, 
                                Kokomo
                            
                   ([
                            Kokomo
                        , Ind.?: The church? 1994]).
               Oscard, Anne, comp., Tristate Terrors: Famous, Historic Female Ghosts of 
                                Ohio
                            , Indiana and 
                                Kentucky
                            
                   (
                     Dayton, Ohio
                  : Hermit Publications, 1996).
               Parkhurst, Jacob, Sketches of Jacob Parkhurst, 1772–1863 ([s.l.:
                        s.n.], 1994). [Fourth reprinted edition; first published in 1893 by the print shop of the
                        Indiana Soldiers and Sailors Children's Home.] Order from: Park York, 1336 23rd Street, 
                            Columbus
                        , IN 47201.
               
                  
                            Perry County
                         Retired Teachers Association, Lest We Forget About Rural Schools of 
                                Perry County
                            
                   ([s.l.: The association, 1995?]). Order from: Alfred E. Snyder, P.O. Box
                        206, 
                            Troy
                        , IN 47588.
               Peterson, Roger A., "When Folklore Shrouds History," Black
                            History News & Notes, No. 64 (May, 1996).
               Pierce, Richard B., II, "Beneath the Surface: African-American Community Life in 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1945–1970" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        , 1996).
               
               
                  Place of Promise: A History of Robin Run Village [in 
                            Indianapolis
                        ], 1985–1995 ([
                            Indianapolis
                        : The village], 1995).
               Pumroy, Eric L., and Katja Rampelmann, comps., Research Guide to the Turner
                            Movement in the 
                                United States
                            
                   (
                            Westport
                        , Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1996).
               Pyle, Ernie, On a Wing and a Prayer: The Aviation Columns of Ernie Pyle,
                        [ed. Mike Harden and Evelyn Hobson] ([Dana, Ind.]: Friends of Ernie Pyle, 1995).
               
                  The Quest for 
                                Fort Wayne
                            : An Anthology of Papers about 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana (
                            Fort Wayne
                        : 
                            Fort Wayne
                        -
                            Allen County
                         Public Library, 1994).
               Rafert, Stewart, "Removal," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, VIII (Spring, 1996). [Excerpt from Rafert, The Miami Indians of
                            Indiana: A Persistent People, 1654–1994 (1996).]
               Ransom Place Neighborhood Association, Heritage Tourism Corridor: The Wellspring
                            of 
                                Indianapolis
                            'Black History ([
                            Indianapolis
                        : The association], 1995).
               Rast, Lawrence R., Jr., "Interest in the Western Field: Two Approaches to Mission
                        Work in Nineteenth Century Indiana," in Missionary to America: The History
                            of Lutheran Outreach to Americans. Essays and Reports of the 1992 Lutheran Historical
                        Conference, 
                     Chicago, Illinois
                  , XV (1994).
               Reahard, Rex, "John Deere Comes to North 
                            Manchester
                        ," North 
                            Manchester
                         Historical Society Newsletter, XII (November, 1995).
               Reid, Robert L., "Pilgrims on the 
                            Ohio
                        : The River Journey and Photographs of Reuben Gold Thwaites, 1894," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VIII (Winter, 1996).
               Ribowsky, Mark, A Complete History of the Negro Leagues, 1884 to 1955 (Secaucus, N.J.: Carol Publishing Group, 1995).
               Richardson, Rosalie, and Larry L. Fox, 
                     
                                Hancock County
                            , Indiana: A Pictorial History (
                            Virginia
                         Beach, Va.: Donning, 1993).
               Roberts, David, "Assistance and Resistance: Fugitive Slaves and Free Blacks on the
                        Underground Railroad," Black History News & Notes, No. 66
                        (November, 1996).
               Roberts, George C, "A Century of Stability and Turnover in Northwest Indiana
                        Congressional Districts," Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings, XXX, 3rd ser. (1995).
               Robinson, Robert V., "Making Ends Meet: Wives and Children in the Family Economy of 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1860–1920," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        XCII (September, 1996).
               Rodgers, Thomas E., "Liberty, Will, and Violence: The Political Ideology of the
                        Democrats of West-Central Indiana During the Civil War," Indiana Magazine
                            of History, XCII (June, 1996).
               Rodgers, Thomas E., "Republicans and Drifters: Political Affiliation and Union Army
                        Volunteers in West-Central Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        XCII (December, 1996).
               
               Rooks, Noliwe Makada, "Hair-Raising: African American Women, Beauty Culture, and
                        Madame C. J. Walker" (Ph.D. dissertation, University of 
                     Iowa, Iowa City
                  , 1994).
               Ryan, Barbara Milligan, "The Relationship between Women and Victorian Interiors,
                        1850–1890, with Specific Reference to the Morris-
                            Butler
                         House [in 
                            Indianapolis
                        ]" (M.A. thesis, Indiana University at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1994).
               Salamon, Sonya, 
                     
                                Prairie
                             Patrimony: Family, Farming, and Community in the Midwest (
                            Chapel Hill
                        : University of 
                            North Carolina
                         Press, 1992).
               Sanders, Scott Russell, excerpt from "The Common Life," in Writing from the Center, in Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VIII (September,
                        1996).
               Scheele, Henry Z., "Presidential Nominator, Charles A. Halleck of Indiana,"
                        Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings, XXX, 3rd ser. (1995).
               Schmidt, Carolyn I., ed., The Canal Boat Case: Who Done It? Not Us, We Were
                            Asleep (
                            Fort Wayne
                        : Canal Society of Indiana, [1996]).
               [Schultz, Gary], Kiwanis Club of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916–1996: Eighty Years of Service (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Kiwanis Club of 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Inc., 1996). Order from: The club, 350 N. Meridian Street, Room 645, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46204.
               Schweitzer, George K., Indiana Genealogical Research (
                            Knoxville
                        , Tenn.: The author, 1996). Order from: The author, 407 Ascot Court, 
                            Knoxville
                        , TN 37923.
               Sharp, Diane, and Cynthia Faunce, "Family History Resources in the Indiana State
                        Library," Indiana Libraries, XV (1996).
               [Sharp, Ronald], 
                     
                                Kosciusko County
                             Murders, Trials, Unsolved, 1837–1954 (
                            Syracuse
                        , Ind.: Sharp's News Service, [1995?]). Order from: The publisher, 1010 N.
                        Huntington Street, 
                            Syracuse
                        , IN 46567.
               Sheehan, Bernard W., "Looking Back: Parkman's Pontiac," Indiana Magazine of History, XCII (March, 1996).
               Shivers, Alfred S., Jessamyn West (
                            New York
                        : Twayne, 1992). [Revised edition.]
               Shoemaker, Rebecca S., "James D. Williams," Traces of Indiana
                            and Midwestern History, VIII (Fall, 1996).
               Silver, Joel, J. K. Lilly, Jr., Bibliophile (
                            Bloomington
                        : Lilly Library, Indiana University, 1993).
               Simons, Richard S., "Indiana's Lifeline: The Monon Railroad," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VIII (Summer, 1996).
               Spann, Edward K., "Indiana's First Woman in Congress: Virginia E. Jenckes
                        and the New Deal, 1932–1938," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        XCII (September, 1996).
               
               Spencer, Thomas T., "'Old' Democrats and New Deal Politics: Claude
                        G. Bowers, James A. Farley, and the Changing Democratic Party, 1933–1940,"
                            Indiana Magazine of History, XCII (March, 1996).
               Spragg, Joann, "Blacherne, Built by [Lew] Wallace, Celebrates 100th
                        Birthday," 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XXI (January, 1996). [Apartment building in 
                            Indianapolis
                        .]
               Spragg, Joann, "Gen. Lew Wallace's "Happy Hunting
                        Ground,'" 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XX (December, 1995). [Kankakee River.]
               Spragg, Joann, "What Do You Know Named Ben Hur?" 
                     
                                Montgomery
                             Magazine, XXI (February, 1996). [Products inspired by the movie.]
               St. Vincent de Paul Catholic Church, 125th Year Anniversary,
                        1868–1993 ([
                            Elkhart
                        , Ind.: St. Vincent's Parish History Committee, 1994]).
               Stevens, Peter F., "King of the Coney Men: Master Counterfeiter Peter
                        McCartney," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VIII (Spring,
                        1996).
               Taylor, William E., and Harriet G. Warkel, A Shared Heritage: Art by Four African
                            Americans (
                            Indianapolis
                        : 
                            Indianapolis
                         Museum of Art, with Indiana University Press, 1996).
               Theilen, Kathy, "Voices Seldom Heard: African-American Women in 
                            Floyd County
                        " (typescript, 1994). [Indiana Heritage Research Grant product.]
               
                  Transcriptions of the William Bonney ["Billy the Kid"] Letters
                            in the Lew Wallace Collection at the Indiana Historical Society, trans. Alexandra S.
                        Gressitt (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 1994).
               Trinity Evangelical Lutheran Church [in 
                            Richmond
                        ], 1892–1992: Celebrating 100 Years of
                            God's Grace ([
                            Richmond
                        , Ind.: s.n.], 1992).
               Tucker, Fred C, Jr., Tucker Talks (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Guild Press, 1994). [Founder of Indiana real estate firm.]
               "Uncle Len Bailey Tells of Sullivan's Early Life," 
                            Sullivan County
                         Historical Society Newsletter, XXIII (March, 1996). [Article
                        reprinted from the Sullivan Union, December 5, 1917.]
               
                  A User's Guide to the 
                                Fort Wayne
                             Holdings: The Indiana Jewish Historical Society (
                            Fort Wayne
                        : The society, 1995). [Indiana Heritage Research Grant product.]
               Vanderstel, David G., In Pursuit of Leisure Time: The Development and Role of
                            Amusement Parks in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1880s-1970 ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ]: POLIS Research Center, 1992). [Indiana Heritage Research Grant product.]
               Vergara, Camilo Jose, The New American Ghetto (
                            New Brunswick
                        , N.J.: Rutgers University Press, 1995). [Includes a discussion of Gary.]
               
               Verhoff, Andrew John, "'A Steady Demand for the Usual': The Federal
                        Housing Administration's Effect on the Design of Houses in Suburban 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1949–1955" (M.A. thesis, Indiana University at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1996).
               Vorenberg, Michael, "Final Freedom: The Civil War, the End of Slavery, and the
                        Thirteenth Amendment" (Ph. D. dissertation, 
                            Harvard
                         University, 
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1995).
               Walker, Robert E., Old Sorrel: The Life of Gilbert Moore … Who Served
                            in the American Civil War, 1862–1864 ([Elk Grove, Calif.?: The author,
                        1994). [Moore served in the 101st Regiment, Indiana Volunteer Infantry.] Order from: Thomas E.
                        Walker, 3020 Shaker Road, 
                            Franklin
                        , OH 45005.
               Warkel, Harriet G., "A Shared Heritage: The Art of William E. Scott, John W.
                        Hardrick, and Hale A. Woodruff," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                        History, VIII (Winter, 1996).
               Warner, John P., "The Influence of the 
                            Wabash
                         and 
                            Erie
                         Canal on the Development of Two Northern Indiana Communities,
                        1830–1860" (M.A. thesis, Indiana University at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1996).
               Weddle, Jerry, Antrim Is My Stepfather's Name: The Boyhood of Billy the
                            Kid (Albuquerque: University of New 
                            Mexico
                         Press, 1996).
               Weintraut, Linda, and Jane R. Nolan, "The Secret of Building 314," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, VIII (Summer, 1996).
               White, Ray, and John A. Koumoulides, eds., Ball State University,
                            1918–1993: Essays in Celebration of the University's 75th
                        Anniversary (
                            New York
                        : Pella Publishing Company, 1996).
               White, Sol, Sol White's History of Colored Base Ball with Documents on
                            the Early Black Game, comp. Jerry Malloy (
                            Lincoln
                        : University of 
                            Nebraska
                         Press, 1995). [Revised edition of Sol White's Official Base
                            Ball Guide (1907).]
               Williams, Gregory Howard, Life on the Color Line: The True Story of a White Boy
                            Who Discovered He Was Black (
                            New York
                        : Dutton, 1995). [Williams grew up in 
                            Muncie
                        .]
               Wissing, Douglas A., "Forms of the Fatherland: Indiana Germans and Their Handmade
                        Furniture, 1835–1860," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, VIII (Summer, 1996).
               Young, Noraleen Ann, "'The Girl Scout of Today, the Woman of
                        Tomorrow': Girl Scouting in Central Indiana, 1917–1992" (M.A.
                        thesis, Indiana University at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1992).
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
