
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 60, Issue 3, pages 219-304. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:60+issue:3+year:1964&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The American Territorial System Since the Civil War: A Summary Analysis
            
                    William M. Neil
                    ∗
                
            In 1787 the 
                        United States
                     under the Articles of Confederation set forth a uniquely American device through which
                    a motherland could govern its dependent colonies. This device was to be known as the American
                    territorial system. Its main features were established in the Ordinance of July 13, 1787. The
                    application of this Northwest Ordinance, as finally standardized in the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Territory Act of 1836, provided for future territories a form of local government
                    that—within the frame of federally appointed executive and judicial officials and a
                    locally elected legislature whose laws would be subject to approval by Congress—granted a
                    large measure of autonomy. It provided also a means by which territories could eventually, at the
                    pleasure of Congress, enter the Union as new states each essentially the equal of the original
                        states.1
            
            The provision of the Northwest Ordinance for the creation of new states in effect seriously
                    compromised the "compact" among the thirteen original states. At first there was
                    the possibility that the affairs of the Union eventually would be dominated by a majority of new
                    states made from the western territories—a possibility that disturbed many in the
                    original states. However, this question paled before the issue of maintaining the balance between
                    free and slave states. The territorial system became enmeshed in the complex issues of the
                    antebellum period, especially those of the public lands and the expansion of slavery. Until the
                    Civil War resolved these problems they furnished the chief context for considering the territorial
                    system.
            
               
                  ∗ William M. Neil is associate professor of history at Indiana
                        University, Gary.
               
                  1 Francis Newton Thorpe (ed.), The Federal and State
                            Constitutions … (7 vols., Washington, 1909), II, 957-62; 
                     
                                United States
                             Statutes at Large, V, 10-16.
            
            
            In recent years not enough attention has been given to the system in the post-Civil War period. Yet
                    its impact on the development of the 
                        United States
                     has been neither uninteresting nor simple. The purpose of this essay is to direct
                    attention to the territorial system since the Civil War by surveying the main body of writings
                    concerned with this subject. Perhaps by so doing a contribution may be made toward emphasizing the
                    system's historical significance above and beyond the issues of the war.
            In any consideration of the American territorial system two distinctions must be pointed out. The
                    first is the distinction between the insular dependencies and the contiguous continental territories
                    destined for statehood to which constitutional rights applied either directly or by legislative
                    fiat. The second is the distinction between political and personal rights, with constitutional
                    guarantees being limited by judicial decisions to personal rights in the case of the territories and
                    dependencies. This essay considers primarily the territorial system insofar as it concerned the
                    contiguous continental territories. Emphasis is given to the question of political rather than
                    personal rights.
            Writings on the American territorial system since the Civil War can be divided generally into three
                    descriptive categories: those of Westerners who at the time they wrote or spoke were either
                    inhabitants of a territory or inhabitants of one of the western states created from a territory;
                    those of participants in the great debate over America's adventure into imperialism that
                    raged at the turn of the century who were stimulated by this issue to re-examine the territorial
                    system; and those of academicians interested in the system as an institution and a part of American
                    history. The Western approach was subjective, most of the time passionately so. With a vested
                    interest in criticizing the system, Western writers and orators put more emphasis on discrediting it
                    than on analyzing it objectively. The Westerners living under the system were critical in an effort
                    to hasten the coming of statehood; those writing after statehood had been achieved wanted to justify
                    the wisdom of having pushed for early statehood. The second category—those who
                    contributed most of the discussion at the time of America's imperialist
                    ventures—ranged within the broad frame of the ethical and legal aspects of establishing
                    and governing colonial dependencies. More often than not their discussions, like those of
                    Westerners, represented briefs for or against an imperial 
                    policy for the 
                        United States
                    . In contrast to those of the first two categories, the academic approach has been
                    generally characterized by objective efforts to describe and analyze the actual historical role the
                    system has played and to arrive at some conclusions regarding its general significance as an
                    American institution. Running through all these approaches, however, is the thread of a single
                    fundamental question: was the territorial system primarily a means of governing dependencies or a
                    means of providing new states for the Union?
            Western criticism emphasized that the territorial system had come to mean primarily the governing of
                    dependencies. From the 1850's, when Western editors had applauded Stephen A.
                    Douglas' popular sovereignty theory as a means of ending the injustices of the territorial
                        system,2 to 1889 the pace of admitting new states from the West slackened
                    significantly. In this period of a generation and a half, articulate and state-minded elements in
                    the remaining territories vociferously agitated against the system. These Westerners asserted they
                    were denied their rights by the territorial system in violation of the fundamental principles of
                    American political traditions. They ascribed to the federal government a greedy desire for
                    centralized power, a desire that not only kept the territories in thrall but threatened to corrode
                    the democratic basis of American life. In brief, the years after the Civil War saw the West denounce
                    territorial status as the badge of a "vassalage … obnoxious to free born
                        Americans."3
            
            Turning for support even to the conservative-revered Chancellor James 
                        Kent
                    —one of the East's most respected constitutional
                    authorities—Westerners attempted to use him in support of their view that the extension
                    of the territorial system, let alone its continuation against the wishes of the people concerned,
                    was "not congenial with the free and independent spirit of our native
                        institutions."4 They resurrected with applause 
                        Kent
                    's old Federalist views that the "establishment of distant Territorial
                    governments ruled according to the will and pleasure [of Congress], would have a very natural
                    tendency, as all pro-consular governments have had, to abuse and oppression."5
            
            
               
                  2 Robert W. Johannsen, "Douglas, Popular Sovereignty, and the
                        Territories," The Historian, XXII (August, 1960), 382-93.
               
                  3 N. O. Murphy, "Statehood for Territories," Independent, LIV (January 23, 1902), 200. Murphy was governor of 
                            Arizona
                         Territory at the time.
               
                  4 Decius Wade, "Self-Government in the Territories," The International Review, VI (March, 1879), 299.
               
                        5
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            So far as Westerners were concerned this was exactly what they thought had happened. In four ways
                    they saw themselves having become victims of the system: first, by being deprived far longer than
                    necessary of any real representation in Congress; second, by being denied the right to elect the
                    officers who governed them; third, by being subject to the humiliation of having to make their laws
                    subject to the whims and pleasures of Congress; and fourth, by being cynically exploited as a source
                    of political patronage.6 The chief effect of the system on the peoples of the
                    Western territories, it was asserted, had been to engender a want of confidence in all government
                    which led in turn to local lawlessness and demoralization. A territorial chief justice noted that
                    the system "begets a feeling of hostility among the people … [which results in
                    a] sense of degradation and wounded pride."7
            
            Amid such feelings of discontent and indignation it was only natural there should be attempts to draw
                    a historical parallel between the territorial "struggle for freedom" and the
                    American Revolution. The effectiveness of the analogy was too temptingly obvious to be resisted, and
                    the strength such an allusion to history would lend to the Western cause could be measured by the
                    deep feelings of patriotic reverence Americans associated with the Revolution and its arguments. In
                    the national legislature, surrounded by the scenes and memories of the Revolution, territorial
                    delegates raised once again the blood-tingling cry: "No taxation without
                        representation!"8 Delegate Martin Maginnis of 
                        Montana
                     Territory told the House in 1884: 
                        … the present Territorial system … is the most infamous system of
                            colonial government that was ever seen on the face of the globe…. [The
                            Territories] are the colonies of your Republic, situated three thousand miles away from
                            Washington by land, as the thirteen colonies were situated three thousand miles away from 
                                London
                             by water. And it is a strange thing that the fathers of our Republic
                            … established a colonial government as much worse than that which they revolted
                            against as one form of such government can be worse than another.9
                  
                    
                
            Aroused by such clarions, Westerners rang the forensic tocsins and warned against continuing these
                    "imperialistic oppressions." Many doubtless agreed with Delegate Maginnis 
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., 301-05.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 305-06.
                  
                     8 See the statement of Delegate George Ainslie, 
                                Idaho
                             Territory, Congressional Record, 47 Cong., 1 Sess., 2345.
                  
                     8
                            Congressional Record, 48 Cong., 1 Sess., 2780.
               
                     that the American colonies had had less reason for rebelling
                    against the rule of Great Britain than the Western territories might have for resisting the rule of
                        Congress.10 In any event, the danger point had been reached since there
                    appeared to be even less reason at this time for the 
                        United States
                     to abridge the principle of self-government than there had been for Great Britain to do
                    so on the eve of the Revolution.11 The 
                        Idaho
                     State Constitutional Convention in a special report to the people of the territory in
                    1889 said they were "held in a state of political vassalage, similar in many respects to
                    that in which the American colonies were held by Great Britain", and went on to describe
                    how the territorial system denied the unalienable rights set forth in the Declaration of
                    Independence. The system was, the convention insisted, a travesty on the American political axiom
                    that governments derived their powers from the consent of the governed.12 Like
                    the American patriots on the eve of the Revolution, the Westerners fell back upon arguments and
                    justifications based on higher and natural law in order to surmount the difficulties of denying to
                    Congress its rights under the Constitution.13 Such arguments tended to be
                    impressive verbalizations of simple, deep-seated feelings which identified natural rights and higher
                    law with the immediate satisfaction of their political demands, maintaining that anything was wrong
                    which denied what was believed to be a natural right. This is not to imply that Westerners made
                    serious attempts to present their grievances within the structure of arguments discussing abstract
                    rights. It was only that when pressed they tended to fall back upon the period of the Revolution for
                    ideological justifications.
            Westerners insisted that the territorial system be interpreted primarily as a means for creating new
                    states and that the inhabitants of the territory, not Congress, be the judge of when statehood
                    should be granted. Only by these means, it was believed, could the people of the territories secure
                    those rights which to them meant not only the vindication of the American political tradition but
                    also the establishment of politically favorable conditions to help attract immigrants 
                  
                            10
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     11 Joseph Ward, "The Territorial System of the 
                                United States
                            ," The Andover Review, X (July, 1888), 53-54.
                  
                     12 Quoted in William J. McConnell, Early History of 
                                    Idaho
                                
                      (
                        Caldwell, Idaho
                     , 1913), 376.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., 376-77.
               
                     and encourage an influx of capital—both desperately
                    needed if Western material development was to proceed.14 These politically
                    attractive conditions were generally identified as the right to elect all local officials, to
                    participate in the election of the President of the 
                        United States
                    , to have full representation in Congress, to have their local legislation subject only
                    to the review of the courts, and to have full control over local judicial bodies.15 In short, they wanted to have all the prerogatives of a sovereign state of the Union. But,
                    so long as the power to determine a territory's eligibility for statehood lay with
                    Congress, Westerners were convinced the older states would continue to procrastinate on the basis of
                    the territories' lack of population, wealth, and political experience in order to prolong
                    the existence of the patronage powers and partisan advantages which went with keeping the West in a
                    territorial status. But it might be pointed out that there undoubtedly were some people in the West
                    who opposed early statehood for their territories since they feared the responsibilities and
                    expenses accompanying statehood and the end of federal subsidies. The great majority of Westerners,
                    however, did not like the territorial system and while they perhaps contributed little to the
                    statehood movements beyond mass-meeting huzzas and barroom manifestoes, they were definitely
                    committed emotionally to these movements.
            Westerners—local historians, reminiscing old settlers, memoir writers, and
                    politicans—commenting on the territorial system after it had ended revealed that much of
                    the old attitude toward the system still persisted. A typical idea in many older western state
                    histories is that statehood was the final victory in a long struggle against those who through
                    ignorance, lack of interest, selfishness, or sheer inertia would have kept the West in a state of
                    colonial dependence. Those who had lived through the territorial period liked to reminisce upon the
                    "fight" for "independence" like old soldiers and once-embattled
                    patriots; and their immediate descendants, if for no other reason than to avoid dimming the luster
                    of their fathers' laurels, echoed the sentiments.
            
               
                  14 Murphy, "Statehood for Territories," 200.
               
                  15 McConnell, Early History of 
                                Idaho
                            
                  , 375-82; Executive Proclamation of Governor Edward A. Stevenson, 
                            Idaho
                         Territory, May 11, 1889, Record Group 48, General Records of the Department of the
                        Interior, Records of the Patents and Miscellaneous Division, Territorial Papers, 
                            Idaho
                        , 1873-1890 (National Archives, Washington).
            
            
            Old settler Thomas Donaldson in his memoirs about early 
                        Idaho
                     took time out from damning the territorial system to relate proudly that despite
                    "many reverses and a foreboding outlook, brave men and women held on with tenacity and
                    typical American courage until statehood was achieved in 1890."16 Frank
                    Hall, who had served as territorial secretary and as acting territorial governor of 
                        Colorado
                    , described in his history of 
                        Colorado
                     the bitter struggle for statehood against the opposition of "salt-water
                    despots" who felt that a "territorial government is good enough and effective
                    enough for such unformed communities, and to that they should be confined."17 Albert B. Sanford in his discussion of 
                        Colorado
                     Territory related the coming of statehood in a triumphant vein: "But on this
                    summer day beside the river these pioneers who had travelled from the 'Big Muddy'
                    to the mountains forgot all disappointment, in universal joy of final victory."18 Former territorial governor James Hawley of 
                        Idaho
                     spoke for all the West when he said: "What I have written will serve to arouse
                    memories of almost forgotten days … [and show] the disadvantages under which the pioneers
                    labored…. Thank God this condition was happily ended when 
                        Idaho
                     took her place in the galaxy of states…".19
                    While much of the Western protest against the territorial system cannot be taken too
                    literally—some of it being oratorical extravagance—-there is no doubt that the
                    memory of the territorial system was to the Western regionalist the memory of unhappy days.
            While Westerners were clamoring for statehood in the decades after the Civil War, the 
                        United States
                     was embarking upon a course of events that culminated in the Spanish-American War and
                    the addition of insular dependencies to the domain of the American people. The great debate
                    precipitated by these events stimulated, among other things, re-examination of the American
                    territorial system. These considerations, however, were quite different from the Western approach
                    which had been motivated entirely by that 
                  
                     16 Thomas Donaldson, 
                        
                                    Idaho
                                 of Yesterday (
                        Caldwell, Idaho
                     ,
                            1941), 10.
                  
                     17 Frank Hall, History of the State of 
                                    Colorado
                                
                      … (4 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1920), II, 270-72.
                  
                     18 Albert B. Sanford, "The Organization and Development of 
                                Colorado
                             Territory," History of 
                                    Colorado
                                
                     , ed. James H. Baker and LeRoy R. Hafen (5 vols., 
                                Denver
                            , 1927), II, 523.
                  
                     19 Hiram T. French, History of 
                                    Idaho
                                
                      (3 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1914), I, 88.
               
                     region's determination to acquire statehood. They were
                    non-sectional in character and were firmly fixed within the context of the whole question of
                    imperial expansion.
            The argument over this question revealed the persistence of two older viewpoints of Manifest Destiny:
                    one was an agrarian attitude associated primarily with the Jeffersonian tradition, the other a
                    mercantilist attitude associated primarily with the Hamiltonian tradition. The Jeffersonians by the
                    1850's had come to regard new territories as places which when populated by sturdy,
                    democratic yeoman would enlarge the area of freedom. Their idea of Manifest Destiny meant the
                    expansion of the 
                        United States
                     only so far as the continental limits imposed by geography and the international
                    boundaries established by history would permit. They had always seen the territorial system as the
                    means for the creation of new states out of the vast area of this continental domain.20 The Hamiltonians, on the other hand, saw Manifest Destiny as the exhaltation of
                    American commerce and through this the achievement of world power for the 
                        United States
                    . Viewing the West as not so much a base for an expanding democracy as a station on the
                    high road to worldwide commercial and political ascendancy, they had little interest in
                    "creating new states in the dreary solitudes of the West…."21
            
            By 1900 Americans who concerned themselves with the issue of overseas expansion revealed the general
                    persistence of these two points of view: the idea of territorial dependencies as stages in rounding
                    out a democratic, continental commonwealth and the idea of territorial dependencies as necessary and
                    inevitable steps toward the achievement of world power. The advocates of the first idea constantly
                    stressed that new territories were akin to trusts and that Congress was obliged to grant full
                    self-government or statehood as soon as it was patently possible; advocates of the other emphasized
                    the right of Congress to full power over the territories and believed that self-government could
                    come about solely at the pleasure of Congress.
            The font of the anti-Imperialist22 argument was the famous statement of Chief
                    Justice Roger B. Taney in the Dred Scott case; he held that the 
                        United States
                     could have no 
                  
                     20 See Henry Nash Smith, Virgin Land (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1950), 12.
                  
                            21
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     22 The term Imperialist is here used to identify those people who
                            approved the idea of a grand 
                                United States
                             domain not necessarily limited to the continent, a usage implied by Henry Nash
                            Smith in his
               
                     permanent dependent colonies and that the only justification
                    for enlarging its territory was to provide for the admission of new states.23
                    His view was revived to become the heart of the argument against the new Imperialists.24 This argument contained important implications regarding the nature of the territorial
                    system. It stressed what one prominent authority on politics and jurisprudence described as the
                    belief in "the right of free migration and settlement throughout the 
                        United States
                    , fundamental in our political system and an incident of citizenship and
                        equality…."25 It seemed to follow that migration which
                    perforce demanded that full participation in government be left behind was not free migration.
                    Citing authorities like Cooley's Principles of Constitutional Law, those
                    who argued thus asserted that free migration meant that when new territory was acquired this
                    acquisition was accompanied by an explicit right to statehood for those who settled it, since
                    otherwise there would be an inconsistency with the fundamental idea of self-government.26 This argument drew an important distinction between the formation of a state
                    and its admission. It held that only by the collective will of a people who settled a new region was
                    a state created; the admitting act was merely supplemental, the formal acceptance of a fait accompli already brought about by the settlers.27 Those who
                    argued thus insisted that the various waverings of the Supreme Court away from the principle 
                  brilliant and provocative book, Virgin Land. The word also is used to
                            identify those who believed in the indubitable paramountcy of the central government,
                            especially as regards its power over territories and dependencies. These two views were most
                            often inextricably intertwined.
                  
                     23
                            Scott v. Sandford, 19 Howard 393, 446 (1857).
                  
                     24 See Carl Schurz, American Imperialism,
                            convocation address, twenty-seventh convocation of the University of 
                                Chicago
                            , January 4, 1899, pamphlet (n.p., n.d.), 9-11; Hermann von Holst, The Annexation of 
                                    Hawaii
                                
                     , address before the Commercial Club of 
                                Chicago
                            , January 29, 1898, pamphlet (n.p., n.d.); Murphy, "Statehood for
                            Territories," 199; Thomas M. Cooley, "Grave Obstacles to Hawaiian
                            Annexation," Forum, XV (June, 1893), 393-99, 406; Thomas M.
                            Cooley, The General Principles of Constitutional Law in the 
                                    United States
                                 of America (
                                Boston
                            , 1880), 36, 170; Justice John Harlan's dissent in 
                                
                                    Hawaii
                                
                             v. Mankichi, 190 U.S. Reports 240 (1903); Senator George
                            Hoar's statement, quoted in Francis D. Wormuth, "The Constitution and the
                            Territories," Current History, XXIX (December, 1955), 338. Copies
                            of the pamphlets by Schurz and von Holst are in the University of 
                                Chicago
                             libraries.
                  
                     25 Ernst Freund, "The Control of Dependencies through
                            Protectorates," Political Science Quarterly, XIV (March, 1899),
                            24.
                  
                     26 Quoted in Francis A. Brooks, An Examination of the
                                Scheme for Engrafting the Colonial System of Government upon the 
                                    United States
                                ' Constitution (
                                Boston
                            , 1900), 25.
                  
                     27 Edmund S. Joy, The Right of the Territories To Become
                                States of the Union (
                                Newark
                            , N.J., 1892), 7-8.
               
                     laid down by Taney, and toward the idea that territorial
                    aggrandizement without creating new states was consistent with American tradition, were extremely
                    unfortunate. They received strong support from the eminent political scientist, John W. Burgess, who
                    stressed that the acquisition of new territory carried with it a constitutional and moral imperative
                    to grant self-government; thus, the territorial system, certainly as it applied to contiguous
                    continental 
                        United States
                    , was meant to be a means for bringing new states into the Union.28
            
            One interesting, but seemingly not too influential, contribution to the argument sought to deny any
                    right of territorial expansion by asserting that the principles of the Declaration of Independence
                    took precedence over the Constitution. Those who presented this view maintained that in the case of
                    the Constitution there was no clear legal base for any power to govern acquired territory without
                    the consent of the governed. This point of view sought to deny congressional authority over the
                    territories by insisting that the sole meaning which could be attributed to the word
                    "territory" in Article IV, section 3, clause 2 of the Constitution—the
                    most-cited legal basis for congressional power over the territories—was that it meant
                    "land" and referred only to the public domain. According to this view, when the
                    land was sold the jurisdiction of Congress ended. It was argued that when one compared this clause
                    with Article I, section 8, clause 17, giving Congress power over the people and government of the
                    District of 
                        Columbia
                    , the difference in meaning became quite clear. And since the Constitution was worded
                    with great care and every phrase was carefully selected, it was concluded that the difference in
                    meaning between these two instances of power granted to Congress must have been intentional.29 The other sources of supposed congressional power over the
                    territories—Article IV, section 3, clause 1 on the admission of new states and Article
                    VI, clause 2 on 
                  
                     28 John W. Burgess, "Present Problems of Constitutional
                            Law," Political Science Quarterly, XIX (December, 1904), 576.
                  
                     29 James W. Stillman, "Territorial Sovereignty," The Green Bag, XI (January, 1899), 25-33. Compare this argument with
                            Brooks, Examination of the Scheme for Engrafting the Colonial System of
                                Government, 28; U.S. v. Gratiot, 14 Peters 526,
                            637-38 (1840). In the Gratiot case the Court said that the word
                            "territory" in Article IV, section 3 is "merely descriptive of
                            one kind of property; and is equivalent to the word
                            'lands'…." However, the Court went on to say that the
                            term is "unlimited" and that it is the foundation upon which the
                            territorial governments rested. To support this "unlimited" sense of the
                            term, citations were made to Marshall's opinions in McCulloch v.
                                
                                
                                    Maryland
                                
                            , 4 Wheaton 422 (1819) and in American Insurance Company v. Canter, 1 Peters 542 (1828).
               
                     the treaty-making power—were likewise disposed of as
                    bases for congressional power to govern territories without the consent of their inhabitants.
            The counterarguments of the Imperialists were presented energetically and skillfully. Their basic
                    assumption countered the views of Chief Justice Taney with those of Chief Justice John Marshall on
                    the question of territorial expansion. Marshall had stated that the 
                        United States
                     might acquire such territory as it saw fit.30 The Imperialists
                    insisted that this power to acquire obviously implied the power to govern and that in the case of
                    the territories the power to govern was given solely to Congress.31 This view,
                    which they pointed out went back as far as the debates over the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase, had been in the long run overwhelmingly sustained by the consistent opinions
                    of the Supreme Court.32 According to one writer, "Congress governs the
                    territories just as 
                        England
                     or 
                        France
                     would govern an acquired domain, by virtue of its inherent sovereignty and power as the
                    legislature of one of the nations of the earth."33 The territories were
                    definitely colonial appendages, with the only exception to the usual meaning of this status being
                    the fact that the promise of ultimate statehood was held out to them. Another writer argued:
                    "Otherwise, however, their status is that of a colony under the control of the Federal
                    Government…. However large the powers of local legislation allowed to the territories, it
                    is power which is allowed, and not which exists as a right; power, too, which
                    might be taken from the territories and exercised by Congress."34
            
            
               
                  30
                        American Insurance Company v. Canter, 1 Peters 511, 542
                        (1828).
               
                  31 See statement by Senator John C. Spooner (Rep.—Wis.), Congressional Record, 55 Cong., 3 Sess., 1382.
               
                  32
                        American Insurance Company v. Canter, 1 Peters 511, 542
                        (1828); Benner v. Porter, 9 Howard 235, 242 (1850); National Bank v. County of Yankton, 101 U.S. Reports 129,
                        133 (1879); Murphy v. Ramsey, 114 U.S. Reports 15, 44
                        (1885); Late Corporation of the Latter-Day Saints v. U.S.,
                        136 U.S. Reports 1 (1890).
               
                  33 J. P. Buster, "Congressional Government of
                        Territories," American Law Review, XXXIV (May-June, 1900), 372.
               
                  34 Herman Wolf Bikle, The Constitutional Power of Congress
                            over the Territory of the 
                                United States
                            
                   (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1901), 39-40. This line of reasoning was strengthened by the Supreme
                        Court's decisions in the Insular cases—DeLima v. Bidwell, 182 U.S. Reports 1 (1901) and Domes v. Bidwell, 182 U.S. Reports 244 (1901). In these cases the Court held that the
                        Constitution did not necessarily follow the flag and said, in effect, that Congress could govern
                        "unincorporated" territories in ways which would deny not only political but
                        also personal rights to the inhabitants. The distinction between
                        "incorporated" and "unincorporated" territories was clothed
                        in rather tortuous legal verbiage. These decisions represented perhaps the constitutional
                        high-water mark for American imperialism.
            
            
            Granted, the Imperialists conceded, some territories were acquired under a promise of ultimate
                    statehood while others were annexed without such a promise. Nevertheless, so far as the
                    "right" of statehood was concerned, there was no real distinction between the two
                    modes of acquisition since admission as a state was at the unlimited discretion of Congress.35 Perhaps the most pithy expression of this view was given by Senator John C.
                    Spooner, a Republican from 
                        Wisconsin
                    , when he said: "Never since the foundations of this Government have we in the
                    acquisition of territory paid the slightest attention to the 'consent of the
                        governed.'"36 The Imperialists also conceded there was
                    perhaps justification for recognizing the existence of an implied right to statehood, since, after
                    all, the great majority of territories had become states. However, when this idea was rigorously put
                    to the test after 1866, the practical course of Reconstruction went beyond the special situation at
                    hand and boldly denied such an implication, thus rendering any such right, if it had ever existed,
                    null and void.37
            
            Even those who held to the view that territories are automatically embryo states admitted that while
                    Congress could not create the population, resources, and institutions necessary to the development
                    of a state, the timing and manner of admission were political questions only Congress could
                    determine. The right to become a state, the Imperialists argued, was not inherent
                    in a community; organic and enabling laws were "powerful creative acts of
                        Congress,"38 not mere formalities following assertion by a
                    territory of the right to statehood. The exigencies of the situation fully accounted for those
                    instances where a territory anticipated the action of Congress and seemingly asserted a prior right.
                    However, only a popular assumption, substantiated by the lax and informal procedures as well as by
                    the precedent of the large number of territories becoming states, gave the semblance of verity to a
                    right that actually did not exist as such.39 According to this argument, enough
                    historical evidence was available in an examination of the terms which Congress had laid down as
                    conditions of entry to justify the assertion that the right to admit states was the exclusive 
                  
                     35 Carman F. Randolph, Notes on the Law of Territorial
                                Expansion (
                                New York
                            , 1900), 6. This pamphlet was submitted to the Senate Judiciary Committee, March
                            16, 1900.
                  
                     36
                            Congressional Record, 65 Cong., 3 Sess., 1382.
                  
                     37 Joy, Right of the Territories To Become States,
                            6.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., 8.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., 25-27.
               
                     prerogative of the federal government acting through
                        Congress.40
            
            With equal firmness the Imperialists disposed of the claim that treaty stipulations—as
                    part of the supreme law of the land—recognized the inherent right of territories to
                    statehood: 
                        The theory that treaty provisions are a law unto themselves has a certain attraction because
                            engagements with foreign states are presumably sacred, but this ethical principle does not
                            necessarily bind our courts, and if Congress passes an act inconsistent with a treaty
                            pledge, they will enforce the act and not the treaty, holding simply that an old law has
                            been repealed by a new one.41
                  
                    
                
            In view of the popular approval of overseas expansion, the Imperialist argument probably held a
                    greater appeal for the American people than did that of its opponents. America went forward toward
                    the fulfillment of the idea of a grand global domain. The great debate gradually tapered off,
                    however, as the realities of transoceanic imperialism and the growing tensions of the world
                    situation sobered the "expansionists of 1898." Arguments on the propriety of
                    establishing dependencies as such gave way to concern with the principles and mechanics of overseas
                    colonial administration. The larger considerations, including examination of the nature of the
                    American territorial system, faded before the pressing new issues associated with Progressivism and
                    the coming of World War I.
            The third general category of post-Civil War interpretations of the American territorial system
                    contains, with a few exceptions, the writings of academicians, chiefly professional historians,
                    interested in the system per se. While in the period of the great debate regarding imperialism some
                    of the work of these academicians represents an overlapping of imperialist and academic approaches,
                    in the main their writings can be consider scholarly treatments. These writers may be distinguished
                    by their general approach to the territorial system: some were primarily concerned with the theory
                    of colonial systems and the place within it of the American colonial system; others preferred to
                    describe and analyze the territorial system from an institutional and operational point of view.
            
               
                  40
                        Ibid., 27-38.
               
                  41
                        
                            Randolph
                        , Notes on the Law of Territorial Expansion, 10.
            
            
            Those authors who saw the territorial system as America's contribution to colonial theory
                    shared certain assumptions, explicit in the writing of some, implicit in that of others. First, the 
                        United States
                     from the very beginning pursued the objectives of an expansionist power; second, the
                    territorial system reflected a tension between the urgencies of expansionism and the ideals of
                    democracy; and third, the basis of the territorial system was the British colonial system revised in
                    the light of the American revolutionary experience.42
            
            Since about the turn of the twentieth century a number of American historians have reflected these
                    assumptions in their interpretations of the system. They have stressed that from the time of the
                    Revolution the 
                        United States
                     recognized the acquisition of new contiguous territory as a natural condition of
                    national development and viewed colonization as a natural part of the advance of civilization.
                    Albert B. Hart pointed out that the Treaty of 
                        Paris
                     in 1783 signalized the decision of the new 
                        United States
                     to become an expansionist power; and by 1790 it had worked out the principles of a
                    colonial policy that would best aid the attainment of its expansionist ambitions. This policy rested
                    upon three points: new lands were to be used for the common good, Congress was to govern the new
                    territories acquired, and ultimately the new territories might become states if Congress so
                        desired.43
            
            That the 
                        United States
                     had always had a colonial policy is a point stressed by Max Farrand. He emphasizes,
                    however, that memories of the colonies' own final resentment of colonial status before the
                    Revolution created a mental attitude that caused the nation to shy away from applying the
                    traditional 
                  
                     42 Albert Bushnell Hart, "What the Founders of the Union
                            Thought concerning Territorial Problems," Harpers, C (January,
                            1900), 311:20; Max Farrand, "Territory and District," American Historical Review, V (July, 1900), 676-81; Carl Becker, "Law and
                            Practice of the 
                                United States
                             in the Acquisition and Government of Dependent Territory," Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, XVI
                            (November, 1900), 404-20; Alpheus H. Snow, The Administration of Dependencies:
                                A Study of the Evolution of the Federal Empire, with Special Reference to American
                                Colonial Problems (
                                New York
                            , 1902); William Franklin Willoughby, Territories and Dependencies
                                of the 
                                    United States
                                : Their Government and Administration (
                                New York
                            , 1905); Dwight McCarthy, Territorial Governors of the Old
                                Northwest (
                                Iowa
                             City, 
                                Iowa
                            , 1910); Beverley W. Bond, Jr., "An American Experiment in Colonial
                            Government," 
                        Mississippi Valley Historical
                            Review, XV (July, 1928), 221-35; Theodore C. Pease, "The Ordinance of
                            1787," 
                        Mississippi Valley Historical Review,
                            XXV (September, 1938), 167-80; Howard Roberts Lamar, Dakota Territory,
                                1861-1889 (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1957).
                  
                     43 Hart, "What the Founders of the Union Thought,"
                            311-13.
               
                     terms to its own imperialist activities. But, while the names
                    given to America's first colonies (territories and districts) and to the system for
                    administering them (the territorial system) reflected the anti-imperialist climate of opinion of the
                    immediate post-Revolution period, the fundamental principle of the system was the old imperialist
                    one that territories and other dependencies should be placed under the direct and supreme
                    supervision of the central government. Although it was true territories could be encouraged in their
                    development and could work toward possible complete self-government, it was also true that in the
                    meantime their residents should be entitled only to the assurance of reasonable personal and
                    property security.44
            
            In one of his early essays Carl Becker reinforced these views by pointing out that in the new
                    American system the sovereign agent for the central government was Congress, and all
                    territory—no matter how new or how acquired—was subject to its will. The only
                    limitations were certain restrictions laid on Congress by the Constitution as interpreted by the
                    Supreme Court. But in actual fact Congress had never chosen formally to acknowledge those
                    restrictions; always it had extended the Constitution and the laws of the 
                        United States
                     to new territories by specific legislation, as if to proclaim its own unlimited
                    sovereignty over the fate of subject territory outside the domain of the states themselves.45
            
            Specialists in the study of colonial systems, such as Alpheus H. Snow and William F. Willoughby,
                    viewed the American territorial system within the larger frame of world imperial systems. Snow
                    emphasized the fact that it was deeply rooted in, but went beyond, the British colonial experience
                    by providing through the device of statehood for ultimate federal equality between the old and the
                    new units. The interim between settlement and statehood, however, was not a phase of complete
                    dependency on the part of the territories. Despite Parliamentary claims, such a situation had never
                    existed under the old British federation, and it did not develop in the American federation: 
                        … the people and lands of the American Union and the people and lands of its
                            dependencies constitute a Federal Empire, and … the people of the American Union,
                            by their written Constitution consented to by all the people of the Empire, have divided the
                            governmental power under an unwritten Constitution, so that the Union is the Imperial 
                        
                           44 Farrand, "Territory and District,"
                                    676-86.
                        
                           45 Becker, "Law and Practice of the 
                                        United States
                                    ," 404-20.
                     
                             State as respects the dependencies, standing in a
                            federal and contractual relation to them, and having neither unconditional nor unlimited
                            power over them, but only a power of disposition,—which implies adjudication as a
                            prerequisite, and in which is included the power to execute its adjudications by all needful
                            rules and regulations….46
                  
                    
            
            It was this aspect of the American colonial system that Willoughby found unique, for from this kind
                    of federation flowed a vital impulse to self-government: "… the development of
                    self-government in the dependencies constitutes the central or essential feature which markedly
                    distinguishes the policy of the 
                        United States
                     from that of other colony-holding nations."47 According to
                    Willoughby, 
                        The granting of this voice in the determination of lines of action, and of the right of
                            participation in the administration of affairs, however, gives rise to the important
                            consequence that thereby the fullest achievement of the first aim of colonial
                            government—efficient administration—must in a measure be sacrificed.
                            There can be no doubt but that the immediate effect of this attempt on the part of the 
                                United States
                             to accomplish the double object of good government and political education will
                            be that affairs will not be managed as well as if the first object was the only one in
                                view.48"
                    
            
            While implicitly accepting the above assumptions on the relation of the territorial system to
                    colonial theory in general, some historians have chosen to emphasize the actual historical events
                    simultaneously leading to the birth of the system and shaping its general form. To these scholars
                    the system seemed to have grown out of the decisions immediately after the Revolution to colonize
                    the great trans-Appalachian West and to ensure that the colonized territory remained forever within
                    the American Union. Foreign threats and intrigues of the post-Revolution West excited fears this
                    region might be split away from the Union if safeguards were not set up. It was believed that the 
                        United States
                     could maintain her interests in the West—interests which at this time were
                    championed by nationalists and land speculators—only if American settlers poured into
                    that region carrying with them an extension of American federal sovereignty.
            This meant devising a colonial program and a colonial policy. In doing this the framers of the
                    territorial system naturally drew upon British experience, recognizing, however, the impossibility
                    of reconciling guarantees of personal liberty 
                  
                     46 Snow, Administration of Dependencies, 578.
                  
                     47 Willoughby, Territories and Dependencies, xi.
                  
                     48
                            Ibid., 16-17.
               
                     with the permanently subordinate role of local government
                    envisaged by the Crown. This was a particularly important point since the uncertainties and
                    weaknesses of the Confederation period rendered doubtful the forcible retention of western
                    settlements within the Union after they had matured—in the event that independence might
                    strike their fancy. Furthermore, the prevailing post-Revolution public opinion would have regarded
                    such a course of centralized "despotism" repulsive. The inducement of ultimate
                    statehood for new territories consequently was included in the American colonial system to offset
                    any tendencies of the West to cut away from the Union or otherwise shift for itself. However, since
                    the earliest settlers were assumed to be interested chiefly in personal freedom and protection and
                    not at all averse to having the federal government assume the expenses of providing for law and
                    order and government, the framers of the territorial system believed the short-run reduction of
                    political self-determination would not be regarded by settlers as too high a price to pay for
                    remaining a part of the 
                        United States
                    .49 In sum, for those historians who related the territorial system
                    to the larger problem of colonial government, the system that began with the Northwest Ordinance
                    solved the problem of American imperial government while the Constitution solved the problem of
                    American national government. In the long run "the first American colonial system, though
                    constantly amended, abused, and ignored, had somehow been a success."50
            
            Among the scholarly views of the territorial system just described must be placed the work of the
                    disciples of Frederick Jackson Turner. Their writings do not deviate significantly from those of
                    other such examiners of the system save in the clearly stressed emphasis that the essence which made
                    the system truly unique and American was distilled out of the frontier experience. In an address
                    before the Ohio Valley Historical Association in 1909, Turner asserted that the
                    territorial system was peculiarly democratic and American because it had been created in response to
                    the demands of the frontiersmen and had been applied during the frontier period in American history.
                    The frontier process had left its mark as deeply on this political institution as elsewhere. The
                        
                  
                     49 McCarthy, Territorial Governors of the Old
                            Northwest, 36-37; Bond, "American Experiment in Colonial Government, 221-36;
                            Pease, "Ordinance of 1787," 167-80.
                  
                     50 Lamar, Dakota Territory, 27.
               
                     greatness of the system, which developed out of the union of
                    the political principles of the Ordinance of 1787 and the frontier experience of the westward
                    movement, lay in the fact that it made the expansion of America peaceful and democratic as compared
                    with the expansion of great nations in other parts of the world.51 Since Turner
                    those historians influenced wholly or in part by him have also emphasized the difference between the
                    American and other kinds of expansionist systems as being one of the demonstrable effects of that
                    historical causal-complex loosely described as the influence of the frontier.52
            
            The second kind of academic commentary on the territorial system has been that of the investigator
                    chiefly interested in the functional realities of the system. The pioneer venture by Earl S. Pomeroy
                    is the only study of this sort available.53 He pointed out how unrealistic an
                    oversimplification is the very phrase "territorial system," inasmuch as the means
                    of administering the territories was more ad hoc than systematic—the
                    existence of a rational system being more an historical fiction than a determinable fact.54 Usually what was meant by the term "territorial system" was
                    a reference to a combination of the loose generalizations of the Ordinance of 1787 and the
                    provisions of the various organic acts. Of these, the latter were more important from the functional
                    point of view. Unfortunately, the organic act—unlike the Constitution or the British
                    colonial charters—was neither "so sufficient… [nor] elastic a
                    fundamental law" for establishing a new political unit: 
                        The organic act designated a new political unit and applied a general formula; details and
                            new problems were attacked in a great mass of supplementary general and special legislation,
                            executive and administrative action, not so well known and not so easily followed as the
                            simple organic acts and enabling and admission acts.55
                  
                    
                
            The real territorial system, or rather the lack of it, was to be found in this great mass of
                    supplementary provisions. In this sense the territories, from the point of view of the 
                  
                     51 Frederick Jackson Turner, The Frontier in American
                                History (
                                New York
                            , 1920), 169-70.
                  
                     52 See, for example, Frederick Logan Paxson, History of
                                the American Frontier, 1763-1893 (
                                Boston
                            , 1924), 564-65; Dorothy O. Johansen, "A Tentative Appraisal of
                            Territorial Government in 
                                Oregon
                            ," Pacific Historical Review, XVIII (November, 1949),
                            485-99.
                  
                     53 Earl S. Pomeroy, The Territories and the 
                                    United States
                                , 1861-1890: Studies in Colonial Administration (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1947).
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., 1.
                  
                     55
                            Ibid., 4.
               
                     administration of dependencies, represented no improvement over
                    the cumbersome and overlapping administrative machinery that characterized such British colonies as 
                        Massachusetts
                     after 1691. In addition, the one important feature which was held to mark the great
                    progressive distinction between the British and the American systems—the American
                    provision for eventual political equality for dependencies through the device of
                    statehood—became obscured.56 As a functional reality the territorial
                    system actually could be described only as a great patchwork of various stopgap devices developed in
                    an ad hoc manner to administer such varied consequences of the acquisition of
                    territory as land sales, Indian affairs, political control, and territorial government.57 Pomeroy infers: 
                        The territorial system constituted only a few phases of formal government where formal
                            government was not all of what little government there was. It may be that its chief
                            significance is negative: being weak, it allowed a freer play of other influence, personal,
                            economic, physiographical, spiritual.58
                  
                    
                
            In concluding this summary view of interpretations of the American territorial system in the period
                    since the Civil War it should be pointed out that any historical analysis and evaluation of the
                    system must take cognizance of certain clear-cut facts now visible from the vantage point of a
                    hundred years of post-Civil War history. First, despite the complaints of the Far West, the duration
                    of territorial status for the great majority of territories was relatively short;
                    second, the territories suffered no blight upon their material development because of the system;
                    third, the system was generally unpopular with a majority of the people living under it; and fourth,
                    given the modest instruments of communication and transportation then available, the enormous
                    distances and sparse populations of the Far West would have put a strain upon the efficiency of any
                    administrative system.
            In those areas where the territories and states represented a contiguous continental zone, the
                    territory was in fact as in theory a transitional form of government. The average duration of
                    territorial status was somewhat less than twenty years for all the states admitted between 1787 and
                    1912; in the period after the establishment of 
                        Oregon
                     Territory in 1848, contiguous territories remained in that stage an average 
                  
                     56
                            Ibid., 2.
                  
                     57
                            Ibid., 95-99.
                  
                     58
                            Ibid., 94.
               
                     of about twenty-five years. The long territorial life of
                            
                  New Mexico, Arizona
               , and 
                        Utah
                     increased the average duration of territorial status for the later period. But, though 
                        New Mexico
                     was a territory from 1850 until 1912 and 
                        Arizona
                     from 1863 until 1912, the "home rule" policy had been so much
                    accepted by Congress after 1890 that the extended time was less onerous than the number of years
                    might indicate. The case of 
                        Utah
                    's delay in achieving statehood was rather a special one reflecting the unusual
                    role religion played in that instance. The political fates of non-contiguous Alaska and 
                        Hawaii
                     were also special cases involving the long tradition of the geographical contiguity of
                    the states of the Union, as well as partisan and racial issues. With the above-named exceptions, the
                    territories became states within the lifetime of the people who saw their organization as
                    territories. Yet the fact that the territorial status was relatively short did not prevent the
                    Westerner from being impatient for statehood. "Citizens resented the territorial status not
                    only because they were Westerners, but also because recently they had been Easterners."59
            
            Rapid material development of the far western territories went on during this phase in their history.
                    It could safely be said that if certain political rights were denied territories under the system,
                    such denials did not put a damper on their material prosperity. In every instance farms, ranches,
                    towns, and cities quickly sprang up; fortunes were made and show-place homes began to dot the West.
                    The exultant accounts of incipient territorial chambers of commerce pointing out the increasing
                    yields of field, pasture, mine, and forest gave evidence, even after allowance for excessive
                    exuberance and optimism, that it was not the economic well-being of the territories that was being
                    oppressed by the system.60 Wherever railroad building funneled in capital for
                    investment and spectacular rises in land values stimulated speculation, the basis was laid for
                    "boom stages" that led to rapid economic growth.61 This growth
                    was apparently quite independent of the political characteristics of the territorial system, and it
                    soon rendered obsolete any of the financial attractions of 
                  
                     59
                            Ibid., 106.
                  
                     60 See James R. Boyce, Facts about 
                                    Montana
                                 Territory ([Helena, Mont.], 1872); Henry Randall Waite,
                            "Embryo States," International Review, XII (March,
                            1882), 299-319; Shelby M. Cullom, "The Six New States," Forum, X (November, 1890), 270-76; Robert P. Porter, The West from the
                                Census of 1880 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1882).
               
                     being semi-wards of the federal government compared with the
                    advantages of statehood.
            Regardless, however, of how rapidly Western material development proceeded, there was no doubt the
                    territorial system was looked upon with great popular disfavor. Most Westerners damned the system
                    for being not only politically oppressive but also for being inefficient, corrupt, politics-ridden,
                    and hypocritical. It must be remembered, though, that many Americans were saying the same things
                    about other levels of government in the 
                        United States
                     at that time. Historical examination of the American political scene in the decades
                    following the Civil War seems to support the conclusion that the territories only reflected in
                    perhaps more crude and provincial ways some general characteristics of the times. In addition, the
                    criticism of the system coming from the West was often a reflection of personality clashes between
                    local politicians and particular territorial officials. For example, 
                        Montana
                    's Democratic territorial legislature, which had been quite happy under the
                    administrations of Democratic Governors Thomas Francis Meagher and Green 
                        Clay
                     Smith, quarreled incessantly with Radical Republican Governor James Ashley and finally
                    expressed its anger in a resolution calling for statehood to free the people from the
                    "vassalage and subjection" of the territorial system.62
                    Finally, in other instances it can be seen that the criticism of the territorial system in the West
                    often came most vociferously from local vested interests who saw in statehood an escape from the
                    federal superintendence and regulation that hampered or inhibited them. An example of this is the
                    part played by the Wyoming Stock Growers Association in the statehood movement in that territory.63 But no matter what the reasons were for criticizing the system, it was
                    popularly felt that territorial status was "hopeless and without honor."64
            
            The territorial system as it evolved certainly was administratively unwieldy. It must be remembered,
                    however, that the enormous distances encountered in the West, together with the relatively late
                    development and limited application 
                  
                     61 Charles M. Gates, "The Significance of Boom Stages in
                            American Westward Expansion," unpublished paper read at the fifty-first annual
                            meeting of the Mississippi Valley Historical Association, 
                                Minneapolis
                            , April 24, 1958.
                  
                     62 Helena (
                                Montana
                            ) Weekly Herald, January 20, 1870.
                  
                     63 Dee Linford, "Cheyenne—Cowman's
                            Capital," Rocky Mountain Cities, ed. Ray B. West, Jr. (
                                New York
                            , 1949), 128-30.
                  
                     64 Pomeroy, The Territories and the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 107.
               
                     there of a modern transportation and communication network,
                    would have made it difficult for any administrative system to work efficiently.65 And any other system would have had to be as compatible with American anti-authoritarian
                    traditions and the demonstrated hostility of the people toward a professional and powerful
                    bureaucracy as the one adopted. And even had the territorial system been abandoned much earlier for
                    efficiency's sake, it is hard to see how the broad picture of Western development could
                    have been much different from what it was. As a matter of fact neither the actual freedom nor the
                    material prosperity of the region could have been much more enhanced. Contrarily, the dangers of
                    thrusting statehood too soon upon the sparsely populated territories might have led to more
                    widespread conditions of the sort Lord Bryce pointed to in Nevada, where the "population is
                    obviously unworthy of the privilege of sending two men to the Senate, and has in fact allowed itself
                    to sink, for political purposes, into a sort of rotten borough which can be controlled or purchased
                    by the leaders of a Silver Ring."66
            
            In sum, the American preferred the schlamperei of traditional forms to the prim
                    efficiency of professional bureaucracy, however much he might damn such forms in action. He demanded
                    a system in harmony with his own free and often chaotic individualism and drew back from one forcing
                    him to accept personal limitations in the name of social responsibility. Within the flexible
                    framework of the Ordinance of 1787 he found the formula enabling him to expand his nation without
                    straining too much his attitudes towards the traditional forms of imperialism. This formula, which
                    never pleased many of the people subject to it but never drove any of them to insurrection or
                    rebellion, in the end delivered what it had promised. Its uniqueness can best be explained on the
                    basis that it was not born out of any doctrinaire approach to the problems of administering
                    dependencies. As the people drifted west carrying with them their values, attitudes, habits, and
                    institutions, the central government, combining the line of least resistance with the precedents of
                    the American political experience, responded almost reflexively through the American territorial
                    system.
            
               
                  65 Cyrus C. Adams, "Our Remaining Territories," Chautauquan, XII (December, 1890), 344-48; 
                            Lancaster
                         Pollard, "The Pacific Northwest," Regionalism in
                            America, ed. Merrill Jensen (
                            Madison
                        , Wis., 1951), 197.
               
                  66 James Bryce, The American Commonwealth (
                            London
                        , 1891), 560.
            
         
         
         
            Chief Francis Lafontaine and the Miami Emigration from Indiana
            
                    Bert Anson
                    ∗
                
            The Miami Indians of Indiana were important in the development of the frontier northwest of the
                        Ohio River from the middle of the eighteenth century until their emigration
                    in the 1840's to lands west of the Mississippi River. Their
                    significance was increased by their location along the strategic 
                        Wabash
                    -Maumee waterway, the passageway of the French fur traders between 
                        Canada
                     and 
                        Louisiana
                     after the intermittent wars with the Fox Indians began in 1717.1
                    This new eastern route avoided the hostile Indians to the west but heightened the possibility of a
                    clash between the French and the English. English traders from Pennsylvania and 
                        Virginia
                     crossed the Appalachian Mountains before 1740, continued their contact with the 
                        Delaware
                     and other tribes, then migrated westward into the Ohio Valley. The
                    English thus began active competition for economic and political ties with several new tribes. Their
                    potential influence, especially among the Miami, alarmed the French whose system of interior
                    communications depended upon the cooperation of the Miami.2
            
            The contest between 
                        France
                     and Great Britain for the territory south of the Great Lakes ended in 1763 with victory
                    for the latter country. This conflict was succeeded by the British-American struggle for control
                    from the American Revolution until the Treaty of Ghent in 1814. During both these rivalries the
                    Miami were able to exert a major influence on events in the area. The tribe's numbers were
                    small—probably never more than fifteen hundred for the principal group, the
                    Twightwee—but the Miami controlled the primary 
                  
                     ∗ Bert Anson is assistant professor of history at Ball
                            State Teachers College, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 George E. Hyde, Indians of the Woodlands: From
                                Prehistoric Times to 1725 (
                                Norman
                            , Okla., 1962), 67, 94, 128, 135, 216; Louise P. Kellogg, The
                                French Regime in 
                                    Wisconsin
                                 and the Northwest (
                                Madison
                            , 1925), 340.
                  
                     2 Albert T. Volwiler, George Croghan and the Westward
                                Movement, 1741-1782 (
                                Cleveland
                            , 1926), 30, 74-75, 81; Thomas Perkins Abernethy, Western Lands and
                                the American Revolution (
                                New York
                            , 1959), 1-10; Kellogg, French Regime in 
                                    Wisconsin
                                 and the Northwest, 406-22.
               
                     route of travel between the Ohio River and
                    the Great Lakes.3 The Miami were led through various conflicts by several
                    capable war chiefs, of whom Little Turtle was the best known. During the subsequent period of treaty
                    bargaining with the American government after the War of 1812, the Miami civil chief was Jean
                    Baptiste Richardville, described by a contemporary as "he of whom no one ever got the
                    better in a trade."4 The Miami were persuaded in the 1840's to
                    emigrate to the lands west of the Mississippi River in conformity with federal
                    policy. Richardville died before the removal took place and his successor as civil chief was Francis
                    Lafontaine, who assumed the problems of preparation and emigration. Lafontaine's term of
                    office was brief: he was elected chief in 1841 and died in 1847. His task was to salvage a few
                    economic benefits for a defeated and deteriorating tribe. Lafontaine's success must be
                    measured by his effectiveness in providing for the members of the tribe permitted to remain in
                    Indiana and for those transported to their new reservation west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    .
            Although some Indian tribes had been removed from their eastern lands to areas west of the
                        Mississippi River by individual treaty arrangements as early as 1817, and
                    removal measures had been introduced and debated in Congress during most of the 1820's, it
                    was the Removal Bill of 1830 that finally established the basic federal removal policy and provided
                    the framework for the negotiations with the Miami.5 Pressure for removal existed
                    in Indiana before this, however, and in 1829 the Indiana General Assembly memorialized Congress to
                    remove the Miami. The resolution contended that the presence of the tribe interfered with internal
                    improvements 
                  
                     3 R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period,
                                1815-1840 (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1950), I, 395-97; Frederick Webb Hodge (ed.), Handbook of
                                American Indians North of Mexico (2 vols., Bureau of American Ethnology, Bulletin 30; Washington, 1906-1910), I, 854.
                  
                     4 Hugh McCulloch, Men and Measures of Half a Century:
                                Sketches and Comments (
                                New York
                            , 1888), 109. Richardville was the son of a French trader and Chief Little
                            Turtle's sister. Brief sketches about Richardville are in Wallace A. Brice, History of Fort 
                                    Wayne
                                
                      … (Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Ind., 1868), 314-16; B. J. Griswold, The Pictorial History of
                                Fort 
                                    Wayne
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1917), I, 233; Biographical Memoirs of 
                                    Huntington County
                                , Ind. (
                                Chicago
                            , 1910), 223-26. Information cited in this article is in the section
                            "The Story of the Miamis," by Thad 
                                Butler
                            .
                  
                     5
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 States Statutes at Large, IV, 411-12.
               
                     and resulted in corruption of the Indians.6
                    The state's proposed internal improvements called for the completion of a canal along the
                    Maumee and Wabash rivers linking the Great Lakes to the Mississippi
                        River as well as a highway from the Ohio River to the Great
                    Lakes. Most of the Miami tribal lands or individual reservations were on the routes of the canal or
                    the highway, often at important junctions, advantageous trading spots, or sites needed for water
                    power. In addition, these lands were usually in fertile river bottoms already partially cleared for
                    farming and could support many farmers who would produce more wealth and buy more manufactured goods
                    than would the Indians. Further pressure for removal came from settlers who had matured on a
                    frontier constantly ravaged until 1815 by Indian raids.7
            
            There were, however, those who opposed Indian removal. The interest of this group—composed
                    primarily of merchants and traders—would be best served by continuing the treaty councils
                    and annuity payments in Indiana. Since federal payments to the Indians were made in
                    silver—the only generally acceptable medium of exchange on the frontier—those
                    who concentrated on the Indian trade preferred to keep the Indians in Indiana as a guarantee of
                    periodic treaties and payments and to assure federal assistance in collecting their credit accounts
                    with the Indians. The fur trade provided benefits to both the whites and the Indians. Also, the
                    treaties included grants of land to the Indians or cessions by the Indians which afforded excellent
                    speculative opportunities for the whites.8
            
            Between these two groups—one promoting removal and the other opposing it—the
                    Miami chiefs could only maneuver 
                  
                     6 Indiana, Laws (1829-1830), 155-56.
                  
                     7 John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From
                                Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), I, 290-92, 296-98. There was much official correspondence on the
                            anticipated effect of Indian removal on the state as well as on the Indians. Probably the
                            most pertinent statements were presented in a report of Miami subagent Samuel Milroy. Senate Executive Documents, 26 Cong., 2 Sess., Vol. I (serial 375),
                            351-54. Other useful contemporary observations are in Henry R. Schoolcraft, Personal Memoirs of … Thirty Years with the Indian Tribes (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1851); The Journals and Indian Paintings of George Winter,
                                1837-1839 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1948). See also Bert Anson, "The Fur Traders in Northern Indiana,
                            1796-1850" (Ph.D. dissertation, Dept. of History, Indiana University, 1953),
                            137-38, 141, 142, 158.
                  
                     8 Nellie A. Robertson and Dorothy Riker (eds.), The John
                                Tipton Papers (3 vols., Indiana Historical Collections, Vols.
                            XXIV-XXVI; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1942), I, 13, 20, 22-23, 27; Anson, "Fur Traders of Northern
                            Indiana," 115, 117-18, 153, 192-96.
               
                     for delay and economic advantage as the anxious adversaries bid
                    against each other for influence with individual chiefs. All parties in this diplomatic duel had
                    selfish interests; wisely the Miami chiefs relied primarily on the advice of those white men whose
                    interests more nearly coincided with their own.9
            
            Richardville, the chief who led the Miami at the treaty councils from 1818 through 1840, had for many
                    years carried on his trading business at the Miami village of Kekionga on the St. Joseph
                        River at its junction with the St. Mary's River in what is now Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , Indiana. In 1834 he transferred his trading activities to the Forks of the 
                        Wabash
                    , just west of present-day 
                        Huntington
                    , Indiana, where treaties and annuity payments would be more isolated from white
                    settlers and more responsive to his own control. Throughout this period, however, Richardville
                    maintained his permanent residence on his reserve on the St. Mary's River a few miles from
                        Kekionga.10
            
            The first treaty made with the Miami after the passage of the Removal Bill was concluded at the Forks
                    of the 
                        Wabash
                     on October 23, 1834. Under its terms the Miami ceded all or parts of seven reserves
                    granted to them by the treaties of 1818 and 1826. In return they received $208,000; part
                    of this was to be used to pay the tribe's debts and part for annuity payments to the tribe.
                    In addition the treaty of 1834 provided a number of individual grants of land and also furnished
                    clear titles to some of the individual grants made in previous treaties. The Miami made no
                    commitments regarding emigration in the treaty council of 1834.11
            
            
               
                  9 Some of the contrasting views of people interested in removal are in
                        Robertson and Riker, John Tipton Papers, I, 546-47, II, 193, 250-51, 401.
               
                  10 Frank Sumner Bash, History of 
                                Huntington County
                            , Indiana (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1914), I, 35.
               
                  11 Charles J. Kappler (ed.), Indian Affairs: Laws and
                            Treaties (2 vols., Washington, 1903), II, 315-18. Later, Richardville's
                        adviser Allen 
                            Hamilton
                         wrote that the Miami insisted on clear titles to the land they received. Robertson
                        and Riker, John Tipton Papers, III, 760. Indians sought this grant of clear
                        title, or title patent in fee simple, because they were aware of the advantages of having
                        property they could transfer without the delay an "Indian title" would entail.
                        Treaty commissioners granted it to those chiefs whose cooperation they needed. In order to sell
                        his land, an Indian must obtain approval of the President; such approval usually followed rather
                        than preceded the initial transaction—often several years later. While he was waiting
                        for clearance of his title an Indian might sell the same land several times over, and was not
                        liable in any court no matter how much he profited. A buyer's only recourse was to
                        establish prior claim through the courts.
            
            
            Another treaty, made at the Forks in 1838, was a partial victory for the whites who urged removal
                    since it included a guarantee of a Miami reservation west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . In addition the treaty provided expenses for exploration of the western lands by a
                    group of "six headmen or chiefs." The tribe also ceded more of its eastern lands
                    to the government. On the other hand, the financial rewards of the Miami were substantial: they were
                    granted a total of $335,680, of which $150,000 was allocated to pay claims for
                    individual Indian debts contracted since 1834. The civil chief Richardville and Francis Godfroy, the
                    last tribal war chief, were granted uncontested claims against the tribe for merchandise sold at
                    their stores. Individual land grants were again made to a number of important
                    Indians—those to Richardville and Godfroy were quite generous; clear title was provided
                    some of the individual lands granted in this and earlier treaties; and exemption from removal was
                    granted to chief Richardville and his family.12 The Miami were able during the
                    treaty council in 1838 to avoid committing themselves to emigration, but they could not hold out
                    indefinitely against the pressures for their removal. They were aware of the abrupt manner in which
                    Menominee's band of Potawatomi were conducted west in 1837 on the "Trail of
                    Death"; while there was public revulsion against such tactics, the Indians knew that force
                    might be repeated if the whites were antagonized too much.13
            
            The most important of the Miami treaties was concluded at the Forks on November 28, 1840, by Samuel
                    Milroy, the Miami agent at 
                        Logansport
                    , and his subagent Allen 
                        Hamilton
                    . 
                  Speculators complicated matters further by buying land they knew had already been sold but
                            for which clear title had not yet been issued. Second, and even third, petitions were thus
                            entered for federal patent, resulting in even more delay before a clear title could be
                            issued. If a contested claim remained in court for an extended time, squatters might
                            complicate the situation even further by settling on lands of disputed ownership or control
                            and resisting efforts of Indians, whites, or the courts to remove them. An example of a
                            situation involving multiple deeds is in Bert Anson, "The Early Years of Lathrop M.
                            Taylor, the Fur Trader," Indiana Magazine of History, XLIV
                            (December, 1948), 379-81. Another case involved the reservation granted the elder Lafontaine
                            in 1818. George W. Ewing, Peru, to Allen 
                                Hamilton
                            , Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , August 16, 1841, Allen 
                                Hamilton
                             Papers, Indiana Division, Indiana State Library.
                  
                     12 Kappler, Indian Affairs: Laws and Treaties, II,
                            384-88.
                  
                     13 Irving McKee (ed.), The Trail of Death: Letters of
                                Benjamin Marie Petit (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. XIV, No. 1; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1941), is useful on Indian emigrations from Indiana.
               
                     They acted unofficially but with assurance in framing the
                    definitive provisions of this treaty, an indication they were negotiating at a propitious moment and
                    were confident the provisions of the treaty would meet official approval because at last the promise
                    of the Miami to emigrate had been secured. A possible factor in the success of this treaty may have
                    been that Richardville was old and sick and wanted to complete the negotiations himself, not
                    trusting that task to a successor. He also may have desired sincerely to remove his tribe from an
                    area where the whites were exploiting it. He led the council in 1840 as the Miami ceded the last of
                    their tribal lands in the Big Miami Reserve south of the 
                        Wabash
                     and committed themselves to move west within five years. Those who were to settle west
                    of the 
                        Mississippi
                     were guaranteed a reservation of 500,000 acres. For their ceded lands the Indians
                    received a high price from the federal government if earlier treaties are used as a basis of
                    comparison. The tribe was awarded a total of $550,000; of this $250,000 was to
                    be paid in twenty annual installments, a like amount was to be used immediately to pay debts the
                    tribe and its individual members had incurred since the treaty of 1818, and the remaining
                    $50,000 was reserved to pay new expenses from the time of the signing of the treaty until
                    its ratification.14
            
            Individual items of this treaty illustrate the value placed by the commissioners upon support from
                    the chiefs. Richardville was awarded $25,000 to satisfy his claims for credit extended to
                    his people at his trading posts at the Forks; he was also granted seven sections of land, but their
                    location was not specified. Francis Godfroy's estate was awarded $15,000, and
                    the band of Miami on the Mississinewa River was confirmed in its communal holdings granted in the
                    treaty of 1838 and clear title was given to the individual reserves held by its leader,
                    Meshingomesia, and his brothers. Both the Godfroy and the Meshingomesia families were exempted from
                    emigration. By the end of 1840 the Miami had secured 
                  
                     14 Kappler, Indian Affairs: Laws and Treaties, II,
                            393-94; Charles C. Royce (comp.), Indian Land Cessions in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (Bureau of American Ethnology, Eighteenth Annual
                            Report, pt. 2; Washington, 1899), Plate 27, shows the western reservation assigned to
                            the Miami; it is number 329 located on the Osage River south of
                            present-day 
                                Kansas
                             City, 
                                Kansas
                            . See also Milroy's report, Senate Executive
                            Documents, 26 Cong., 2 Sess., Vol. I (serial 376), 351-54.
               
                     exemption from emigration for 161 individuals, although 345
                    ultimately succeeded in remaining in the state.15
            
            Richardville died August 13, 1841, at his home on the St. Mary's River. At a tribal council
                    held that same year Francis Lafontaine was elected principal chief, defeating Meshingomesia of the
                    Mississinewa villages and Jean Baptiste Brouillette, a subchief from the mouth of the Mississinewa
                    near Peru; neither Richardville's surviving son Meaquah nor any of his several grandsons
                    was considered for the office.16 Prior to the meeting of the electing council, a
                    prominent Fort 
                        Wayne
                     trader, George W. Ewing, wrote to Allen 
                        Hamilton
                     concerning the merits of the candidates. Ewing's letter was not unbiased, but
                    it indicates he was generally well informed: 
                  
                     
                        I am truly sorry to hear of the death of Chief Richardville, and can not but fear
                                    some trouble & inconvenience in consequence. I had promised ourselves the
                                    aid & friendship of this distinguished and extraordinary man in bring to an
                                    amicable close the vast unsettled business of his people. How this matter will now
                                    end I cant say, it may possibly result more favourably than at present I anticipate.
                                    The Indians finding themselves left without a Head may the more readily fall into
                                    general measures. I hope they may not be permitted to split up & divide off
                                    into different Bands or parties—this would be very injurious & I
                                    fear some of the Band & their advisers may aim at this—They
                                    should be kept together & their national character sustained, &
                                    should be made to do all their business as here tofore, as one Nation, and I hope a
                                    good successor may be appointed to their late principal chief. Who that should be is
                                    not for me to say. You will best know. I am told Ozandeah is the proper successor,
                                    if so he will be a good man, for he is decidedly in favr. of paying all the just
                                    debts & of removing West at once. Next to him I would suppose Lafountain
                                    would be a safe man. Yet he will not consent to move west I presume. Meshingomeshea,
                                    I am fearfull would not be a safe man, as I am told he is not in favr. of paying
                                    debts, & as all know he is opposed to going West. Poqua Godfrey is a rash
                                    man & is very unpopular among the Indians. I do not think he would answer,
                                    or that he would be the choice of the Indians Blk Raccoon, if a sober man, would be
                                    their first choice I have no doubt, & he may at any rate—In all
                                    these things herein [?] I look with all confidence to you—your long
                                    acquaintance & high standing with those people will bring them to you for
                                    councill in all these things, and I doubt not you will recommend the best man they
                                    have for principal chief. Lafountain would be a safe man. Poqua I fear would
                                    not—as he is intemperate & violent in his
                                        disposition….17
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
                  15 Kappler, Indian Affairs: Laws and Treaties, II,
                        393-94; Senate Executive Documents, 30 Cong., 1 Sess., Vol. I, (serial 603),
                        734.
               
                  16
                        Biographical Memoirs of 
                                Huntington County
                            
                  , 226; Bash, History of 
                                Huntington County
                            
                  , I, 36.
               
                  17 George W. Ewing, Peru, to Allen 
                            Hamilton
                        , Fort 
                            Wayne
                        , August 16, 1841, Allen 
                            Hamilton
                         Papers, Indiana Division, Indiana State Library.
            
            
            The family ties of the new civil chief Francis Lafontaine probably were established by his
                    grandfather, Peter F. Lafontaine. A French trader from 
                        Canada
                     and 
                        Detroit
                    , Peter Lafontaine traded from about 1775 to 1795 at the Miami village of Kekionga. His
                    son, the first Francis, was born at Kekionga about 1780; Francis' mother is believed to
                    have been a Miami. Peter apparently served as manager of the Kekionga warehouse of another French
                    trader, Charles Beaubien. Later Francis managed the Beaubien warehouse and with his Miami wife lived
                    at Kekionga through the years of British-American hostilities on the frontier.18
                    At a treaty made with the Miami at St. Mary's, 
                        Ohio
                    , on October 6, 1818, Francis Lafontaine received for himself and his son,
                    Francis—then about eight years of age—a reservation of two sections of land
                    located south of Kekionga on the west side of the St. Mary's River adjoining the
                    reservation granted to Chief Richardville by the same treaty.19 The elder
                    Francis apparently moved to this reservation early in 1821. A traveler who visited at his home there
                    in July, 1821, described his host as old, hospitable, and fluent in the French language.20 In 1823 Lafontaine petitioned President Monroe for permission to sell one
                    section of his reservation so he could reduce his debts and interest charges. The superintendent of
                    Indian affairs for the area that included Lafontaine's lands endorsed the petition, adding
                    that the petitioner's son, a minor, shared in the grant. The President approved the
                    petition with the 
                  
                     18 Charles B. Lasselle, "The Old Fur Traders in
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, II (March, 1906), 4;
                            Robertson and Riker, John Tipton Papers, I, 330n; Griswold, Pictorial History of Fort 
                                    Wayne
                                
                     , 74-75, 97n.
                  
                     19 Kappler, Indian Affairs: Laws and Treaties, II,
                            120. Problems concerning the location of this reservation are described in Robertson and
                            Riker, John Tipton Papers, I, 316, II, 788-89. A map showing the
                            approximate locations of individual reservations granted in 
                                Allen County
                             by the treaties of 1818 and 1826 is in Griswold, Pictorial History
                                of Fort 
                                    Wayne
                                
                     , I, 239. Locations of sections granted to Lafontaine are shown in
                            Baskin, Forster & Co. (pub.), Illustrated Historical Atlas of the State
                                of Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1876), 47, 62, 76.
                  
                     20 Thomas Scattergood Teas, "Journal of a Tour to Fort 
                                Wayne
                             and the Adjacent Country in the Year 1821," Harlow Lindley (ed.), Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers: A Collection of Reprints from Books of
                                Travel, Letters and Diaries Prior to 1890 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol.
                            III; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 248-50. Teas also reported that Lafontaine's "family
                            consists of his wife, her sister, and a little boy, about 8 years old, whom he has adopted,
                            having no children of his own." Ibid., 249. No support for this
                            information has been found in other sources.
               
                     proviso that the sale should not involve the son's
                    share. The elder Francis died in 1831 or 1832.21
            
            It is not always possible to determine which Francis Lafontaine is being mentioned in the documents
                    between 1820 and 1832. Although no record has been found that refers to either Francis as chief or
                    head of an Indian village during this period, the name appears in the Miami treaties and records of
                    annuity payments with enough frequency to indicate that at least one, and perhaps both, held
                    positions of some importance in the tribe. For example, a Francis Lafontaine signed receipts for
                    Miami annuity payments in 1825, 1827, and 1828 and the salt annuity of 1827; "LAFONTAINS wife" signed annuity receipts in 1829 but the village group for which
                    she signed is not designated; Lafontaine's brother-in-law at the Forks was listed to
                    receive payments for thirteen individuals in 1831 according to the annuity records. One of the
                    Lafontaines received a section of land in the Mississinewa treaty of 1826—a further
                    indication of importance in the tribe since only seventeen individuals were granted land in that
                    treaty. The section was in the reserve near Pipe Creek southeast of 
                        Logansport
                    .22 A brick house was built for "Francis
                    Lafontaine" on the Wabash River-Pipe Creek reserve in 1827 to fulfill
                    an agreement made in the Mississinewa treaty of 1826. There is no evidence, however, to indicate
                    that either of the Miami Lafontaines lived at this site or that the elder Francis lived at any place
                    except Kekionga and his St. Mary's home.23 There are also records of a
                    payment made to "F Lafontain, 12 Fork party" at the Mississinewa treaty of
                        1826.24 Young Francis appears to have moved to the community at the Forks of
                    the 
                        Wabash
                     before 1826, and this payment would indicate that by that year he was considered a
                    leader at that small village center of Miami trade.
            Young Francis Lafontaine (Topeah) definitely received a new section of land in the Miami treaty
                    concluded at the 
                        Wabash
                     Forks in 1834. His section and the adjoining one granted to his oldest son, Louis
                    (Wapasepah), were located 
                  
                     21 Robertson and Riker, John Tipton Papers, I,
                            329-31. Francis Godfroy was listed in 1832 as administrator of the elder Francis'
                            estate. Ibid., II, 656.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., I, 477, 776, 794, II, 85, 186, 384, 438; Kappler, Indian Affairs: Laws and Treaties, II, 199-201.
                  
                     23 Robertson and Riker, John Tipton Papers, I,
                            740-42, 810, 836.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., 619.
               
                     opposite the mouth of the Aboite River. Another provision of
                    the treaty of 1834 is a further indication that young Francis had attained a position of importance:
                    the new section was granted with clear title and the title to his portion of the land granted the
                    two Francises by the treaty of 1818 was cleared.25 The treaty of 1838 included
                    the following provision: "To La 
                        Fountain
                     one section of land south of the section he now lives on and adjoining the same, on the
                    Ten mile reserve." Lafontaine's gain at the treaty in 1840 was also modest: he was
                    granted clear title to one section of land located at the "rapids" of Wildcat
                    Creek in what is now 
                        Kokomo
                    .26
            
            The new civil chief Lafontaine was about thirty-one years old. He was described as a "tall,
                    spare, athletic" youth "noted for fleetness of foot," but he became
                    "robust and corpulent, and in his later years weighed about 350 pounds." He was at
                    least half—and may have been three-quarters—Indian. He usually wore Indian
                    dress and followed Indian customs. This practice and his tendency to avoid contact with the whites
                    indicate that he accepted Richardville's standards of cautious and reticent behavior.27 Between his eighteenth and twenty-first years he married
                    Richardville's daughter Catherine (Pocongaqua). Lafontaine and his family probably stayed
                    most of the time at the Forks, but they may have lived during at least part of the 1830's
                    on his reserve opposite the mouth of the Aboite River. After his election as principal chief of the
                    Miami, they apparently lived in a house at the Forks of the 
                        Wabash
                     west of present-day 
                        Huntington
                    .28
            
            Although Lafontaine did not receive as many sections of land through treaty grants as did some of the
                    other prominent Miami, he was later able to acquire large additional land holdings. He also operated
                    a store at the Forks and conducted a successful trading business. As a family headman and 
                  
                     25 Kappler, Indian Affairs: Laws and Treaties, II,
                            316, 317.
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., 387, 394.
                  
                     27 Jacob Piatt Dunn, True Indian Stories with Glossary of
                                Indiana Indian Names (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1909), 307, indicates that Lafontaine's Indian name, Topeah, means
                            "Frost on the Bushes. See also Bash, History of 
                                    Huntington County
                                
                     , I, 36-39; Griswold, Pictorial History of Fort 
                                    Wayne
                                
                     , 233, 350, 353, 380-81; Biographical Memoirs of 
                                    Huntington County
                                
                     , 226.
                  
                     28 Griswold, Pictorial History of Fort 
                                    Wayne
                                
                     , 380, indicates that the marriage was in 1830 or 1831; an affidavit to
                            the 
                                Huntington County
                             probate court by Allen 
                                Hamilton
                             on August 12, 1850, states that the marriage was in 1827 or 1828. John Roche
                            Papers, in possession of the author. Kappler, Indian Affairs: Laws and
                            Treaties, II, 387; Biographical Memoirs of 
                                    Huntington County
                                
                     , 227.
               
                    
                    
                  
                            CHIEF FRANCIS LAFONTAINE
                        
                  From a retouched photograph of the portrait by R. B. Crafft, probably painted at Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, about 1840. The portrait is in the 
                                Allen County
                            -Fort 
                                Wayne
                             Historical Society Museum, Fort 
                                Wayne
                            . The photograph is in the Peat Collection, Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     chief, Lafontaine had legal control of the extensive property
                    of his dependents; as principal chief he also secured through the courts guardian's legal
                    control of Richardville's minor heirs.29 The old chief provided well
                    for the security of his family. Under the terms of Richardville's will
                    Lafontaine's wife Catherine inherited two sections of land at the junction of the
                    Mississinewa and Wabash rivers and one section at the Forks of the 
                        Wabash
                    . The section at the Forks included her father's houses and store next to the
                    tribal council houses. Lafontaine's oldest son Louis received a section of land opposite
                    the mouth of the Mississinewa. Each of the old chief's other grandchildren and
                    great-grandchildren—including Lafontaine's other five
                    children—inherited a half section of land.30
            
            Lafontaine's election to the position of principal chief made him major spokesman for all
                    the Miami and guardian of all the financial affairs of the Richardville village. He followed the
                    Miami practice of making the village subchiefs the agents for peaceful settlement of claims for
                    damages committed by Indians against white property.31 The legal status of the
                    Indians was changed in the first year of his leadership when the Indiana General Assembly passed an
                    act removing the necessity of bail for those accused persons with one eighth or more Indian blood
                    and prohibiting whites or Negroes from contracting or collecting debts from Indians.32 While this law may indicate the confidence the local courts placed in the ability of
                    the tribal chiefs to produce any erring member of a village at a session of court, it may also
                    reflect reluctance of communities to furnish jail lodging and provisions for impoverished Miami
                    during the long periods of 
                  
                     29 For information regarding some of Lafontaine's business
                            activities, see Bert Anson, "John Roche—Pioneer Irish
                            Businessman," Indiana Magazine of History, LV (March,
                            1959)' 50-52; Biographical Memoirs of 
                                    Huntington County
                                
                     , 227. An itemized report of the Francis Lafontaine estate was prepared
                            in 1862 by Father Julian Benoit; it showed assets of more than $39,000. The
                            original report is in the John Roche Papers.
                  
                     30 Richardville's will specified the locations of the tracts
                            of land bequeathed to his family. Benoit and Allen 
                                Hamilton
                             were made executors of the will, which disposed of a total of 22 sections of
                            land. A copy of the will is in John Roche Papers, as is a copy of the final report of Father
                            Benoit to the 
                                Huntington County
                             probate court, November 20, 1852. Henry P. Schoolcraft estimated
                            Richardville's "wealth some years before his death at about
                            $200,000…." Brice, History of Fort 
                                    Wayne
                                
                     , 286. Lafontaine's other five children were Thomas, John,
                            Esther, Francis, Joseph; another daughter, Archangel, was born after Richardville
                        died.
               
                     court recess. More important, the law required Indian merchants
                    to conduct certain legal phases of their business through white men—not a new practice,
                    but one which this law made mandatory.
            The career of an Indian chief was closely bound to the motives and actions of the white men who
                    cooperated with or influenced him. Fort 
                        Wayne
                     banker and merchant Allen 
                        Hamilton
                     was probably the most important adviser to be associated with the Miami. He had worked
                    closely with Chief Richardville and participated in the treaty council in 1840. 
                        Hamilton
                     became intimately involved in Richardville's commercial affairs, but he could
                    only try to influence the old chief, who was astute in the ways of both white and Indian
                    negotiations. At the tribe's request he was appointed Miami agent in 1841 before
                    Richardville's death and continued in this post until 1845.33 In 1843 
                        Hamilton
                     notified T. Hartley Crawford, Commissioner of Indian Affairs at Washington, of the
                    final selection of the seven sections of land granted Richardville in the 1840 treaty. There had
                    been no delay in the selection of Lafontaine's reservation in the same treaty since its
                    location had been specified in the treaty. However, Lafontaine had not yet received the patents for
                    his reserves of 1838, and 
                        Hamilton
                     wrote Crawford concerning this need for clear titles. The General Land Office provided
                    thirty-six patents for various Miami individual reservations granted in the 1838 treaty, including
                    Lafontaine's, and also thirteen patents for parcels reserved in the treaty of 1834.34 In May, 
                  
                     31 Souvenir edition, 
                                Huntington
                            
                            Evening Herald, September 27, 1903. It is reported that Lafontaine issued
                            a decree that no Indian was ever to insult a white. Ibid.
                  
                  
                     32 Indiana, General Laws (1840-1841), 134.
                  
                     33 Brice, History of Fort 
                                    Wayne
                                
                     , appendix 18-22; Robertson and Riker. John Tipton
                            Papers, III, 222, 238-39; Daniel R. Bearss, Peru, to William Medill, Washington, July
                            14, 1846, Records of the Bureau of Indian Affairs (National Archives, Washington). The
                            records of the Bureau of Indian Affairs cited in this article are on Rolls 416-418, National
                            Archives Microcopy 234, "Letters Received by the Office of Indian Affairs,
                            1824-1881." Roll 416 contains "Miami Agency, 1824-1841,
                            1846-1850"; Roll 417, "Miami Agency Reserves, 1838-1850"; Roll
                            418, "Miami Agency Emigration, 1842-1853." Hereafter these will be cited
                            as Miami Agency Papers, Roll—. The letter from Bearss to Medill is on Roll 416.
                  
                     34 Allen 
                                Hamilton
                            , Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , to T. Hartley Crawford, Washington, May 4 and July 30, 1843, Miami Agency
                            Papers, Roll 417; John M. Moore, Washington, to T. Hartley Crawford, Washington, August 10
                            and October 23, 1843, ibid. A Lafontaine memorial regarding the patents
                            was enclosed in Allen 
                                Hamilton
                            , Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , to T. Hartley Crawford, Washington, November 11, 1843, ibid.
                  
               
                     1843, 
                        Hamilton
                     also told the commissioner that the Indians and Lafontaine were afraid of losing some
                    of their best lands in the surveys which the state's agents were making to locate the canal
                    lands. He declared, too, that the timid Indians were being annoyed by squatters, who were obstacles
                    to the Indians living on the reservations who wanted to sell their lands or had already sold and
                    wished to give possession to the new owners.35
            
            Matters of land ownership and transfer and the disposal of property were the major problems of
                    emigration and absorbed more of Lafontaine's time than any others.36
                    His duties increased in number and urgency as the time of emigration approached. Previously he had
                    been able to conduct his affairs with one secretary-clerk; in 1844 he added as his chief clerk John
                    Roche of 
                        Huntington
                    , a young Irishman with experience in 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal construction and maintenance. In 1846 Roche was made a partner in
                    Lafontaine's business to circumvent the legal restrictions that harassed the Indians. He
                    also continued the chief's enterprises while the latter traveled to Washington and later to 
                        Kansas
                    .37
            
            These preparations were timely, for Thomas Dowling of 
                        Terre Haute
                     was granted a contract on May 6, 1844, to move the Miami to their western lands. The
                    contract provided $55,000 for the expenses of the emigration; these included salaries for
                    conductors and physicians, the cost of assembling the tribe, and the expense of one year's
                    subsistence for the Miami in their new location.38 Dowling immediately went to
                    the 
                        Wabash country
                     for consultations with 
                        Hamilton
                     and Lafontaine; then, during a second trip in the fall, he held a council with the
                    tribe and chiefs on October 4, 1844. 
                        Hamilton
                    's cooperation and grasp of the problems of the undertaking impressed the
                    contractor, but the Indians met Dowling's haste with amiable and frustrating
                    procastination. They wanted more time to complete the sale of their property but did agree that if
                    additional time was not granted by the federal government, they would empower Lafontaine to dispose
                        
                  
                     35 Allen 
                                Hamilton
                            , Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , to T. Hartley Crawford, Washington, May 4, 1843, ibid.
                  
                  
                     36 See footnote 11, p. 244-45.
                  
                     37 Anson, "John Roche—Pioneer Irish
                            Businessman," 49-51.
                  
                     38 Thomas Dowling, 
                                Terre Haute
                            , to T. Hartley Crawford, Washington, May 6, 1844, Miami Agency Papers, Roll
                            418; William Medill, Washington, to John Petit, Washington, April 5, 1848, ibid.
                  
               
                     of the property after their emigration. Dowling reached the
                    conclusion that traders would foster the Indians' efforts to remain in Indiana so long as
                    annual payments were made there.39
            
            Since the Miami had agreed in the treaty of 1840 to emigrate within five years, preparations for the
                    impending event increased in 1845. Secretary of War William Wilkins had told Crawford there would be
                    no further extensions of time and ordered 
                        Hamilton
                     to press the Miami for a definite commitment to emigration. There were still, however,
                    sporadic maneuvers to create delays. Lafontaine tried to divert the attention of the Office of
                    Indian Affairs by suggesting to Allen 
                        Hamilton
                     that the Meshingomesia band might be troublesome. He indicated that these Indians
                    feared they might be evacuated from their reservation of ten sections along the Mississinewa, even
                    though the land had been granted as a communal holding under their chief's guardianship
                    until it should be alienated. He thought their fear was based partly upon the fact that only the
                    family of Meshingomesia had been specifically exempted from emigration. Lafontaine suggested the
                    government try to purchase all the reserve except a section or two which could be retained for Chief
                    Meshingomesia. Although Commissioner Crawford approved Lafontaine's suggestion it was not
                    implemented. 
                        Hamilton
                     added that land in the area was increasing in value. Land worth $1.10 an
                    acre in 1840 was bringing $3.00 by 1845, and the Richardville family had received as much
                    as $5.00 an acre. While one Miami group had asked $3.00 an acre, 
                        Hamilton
                     thought the tribe would set a price of about $1.25 an acre.40
            
            During the summer of 1845 Lafontaine's oldest son and several subchiefs were sent to the
                    proposed Miami reservation on the Osage River immediately west of the state of 
                        Missouri
                    . On their return, they reported their satisfaction with the land's natural
                        features.41 The local courts were petitioned to declare Lafontaine the legal
                    guardian of the 
                  
                     39 Thomas Dowling, 
                                Terre Haute
                            , to T. Hartley Crawford, Washington, October 17, 1844, ibid.
                  
                  
                     40 William Wilkins, Washington, to T. Hartley Crawford, Washington,
                            December 4, 1844, ibid.; Allen 
                                Hamilton
                            , Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , to T. Hartley Crawford, Washington, February 6 and March 7, 1846, ibid., Roll 417; T. Hartley Crawford, Washington, to William Wilkins, Washington,
                            January 31, 1846, ibid.
                  
                  
                     41 George W. Ewing, Osage subagency, to William Medill, Washington,
                            November 11, 1846, ibid., Roll 418.
               
                     properties of various individuals who were minors or who wished
                    to emigrate before they had disposed of all their possessions. The chief also secured court orders
                    for the sale of several pieces of real estate on which he held mortgages and which he wished to add
                    to his own extensive properties. The Office of Indian Affairs authorized 
                        Hamilton
                     to pay Lafontaine's accounts with the wholesale merchants of 
                        New York
                     since the chief planned to emigrate with his tribe and remain on the new reservation
                    for at least six months.42
            
            The federal government's eagerness for the emigration was evident in the authorization it
                    gave in 1845 for the selection of a commission of three arbiters to review the Miami claims and
                    debts. The Indians were to select two traders and the claimants to name the third man. The agreement
                    was made October 27, 1845, and later approved by the President. William L. Stuart and Dr. Graham N.
                    Fitch, two residents of 
                        Logansport
                    , were chosen by the Indians, and Elias Murray of 
                        Huntington
                     was named by the traders who had claims against various members of the tribe.43
            
            Sometime in 1845, Joseph Sinclair of Fort 
                        Wayne
                     was appointed agent to the Miami, replacing 
                        Hamilton
                    . The new agent sent Crawford's successor, William Medill, a petition from the
                    chief requesting reassurance the Lafontaine family would be exempt from emigration. "I will
                    remark that Lafontaine married the favorite daughter of the late Chief…. Lafontaine has
                    relatives and connections to the number of thirty-four." Sinclair thought anything which
                    protected the prestige of the chief would expedite the emigration since the Miami gave unusual
                    obedience to their paramont officer and members related to chiefs were extremely proud of that
                        relationship.44
            
            In spite of the terms of the treaty of 1840, the Miami emigration did not take place in 1845. Several
                    factors contributed to the delay. Miami debts were not yet liquidated; the Indians were dispersed
                    among their villages and would assemble reluctantly. In addition, it is doubtful that Dowling 
                  
                     42 Anson, "John Roche—Pioneer Irish
                            Businessman," 50-51.
                  
                     43 There are many allusions in the official correspondence to the
                            unusual nature of this arrangement, but the most revealing reference to it and to President
                            James K. Polk's confirmation of the agreement is in William G. Ewing, Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , to William Medill, Washington, November 9, 1846, Miami Agency Papers, Roll
                            416.
                  
                     44 Joseph Sinclair, Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , to William Medill, Washington, December 29, 1845, ibid.,
                            Roll 418.
               
                     had ever intended to attempt the emigration but had instead
                    entered into the contract as a speculative venture. Nevertheless, by 1846 emigration was inevitable,
                    and the events leading to its culmination occurred with increasing frequency as the year began.
                    Using his removal contract as security, Dowling negotiated a loan of $6,000 then sold the
                    contract to Robert Peebles of 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . Peebles notified Commissioner Medill of the purchase, acknowledging his legal
                    obligation to conduct the emigration in the name of Dowling, the original contractor, and informed
                    Medill that Allen 
                        Hamilton
                     had aided him in securing a conference with Lafontaine at which they had arranged for a
                    council to be held at the 
                        Wabash
                     Forks in March, 1846.45
            
            Agent Sinclair was appointed superintendent of the emigration in March, 1846.46
                    On March 30, Peebles returned to the Forks where Lafontaine approved the new contractor and his
                    appointed physician, Dr. Fitch of 
                        Logansport
                    , who had been selected the previous year by the Miami as a member of the claims
                    arbitration committee. Sinclair believed the only remaining obstacle to emigration was the final
                    debt accounting. But again the removal contract was sold, this time to a group. The Ewing brothers,
                    William G. and George W., bought one third of the joint venture; Samuel Edsall, also of Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , bought a third; and Alexis Coquillard of 
                        South Bend
                     bought a third. Coquillard was designated the "active partner," or
                    actual conductor.47 While there is no evidence of the circumstances which
                    motivated Peebles' withdrawal, subcontracting was a common practice, and the actual
                    completion of Indian removal usually was performed by experienced men like Coquillard. The
                    contract—it was still the one originally granted to Dowling—contained the
                    customary terms required by the Office of Indian Affairs: the contractor was obligated to issue
                    rations to Indians waiting at the place of assembly; to assume the expenses of the actual migration;
                    to provide rations to the tribe for one year after its arrival at the wetsern reservation; and to
                    pay the salaries of all the conductor's assistants.
            
               
                  45 Robert Peebles, 
                            Pittsburgh
                        , to William Medill, Washington, February 27, 1846, ibid.
               
               
                  46 Joseph Sinclair, Miami Eel River agency, to
                        William Medill, Washington, March 5, 1846, ibid.
               
               
                  47 Joseph Sinclair, Fort 
                            Wayne
                        , to William Medill, Washington, March 30 and April 23, 1846, ibid.
               
            
            
            The new contractors and Sinclair immediately moved to liquidate Miami financial affairs by the
                    procedure devised the previous October. Arbiters Stuart, Murray, and Fitch met the Indians and the
                    traders on May 4, 1846, and completed their debt settlement in four days. During this council there
                    were rumors that some traders received preferential treatment from the Indians or from the arbiters
                    and that many claims were fraudulent. The arbiters, however, were able to obtain an immediate
                    settlement, leaving individual traders who were dissatisfied to make charges of corruption to the
                    commissioner of Indian affairs.48
            
            Another council was held June 1, 1846, to make final arrangements for the actual emigration. In his
                    letters to Commissioner Medill between June 1 and August 14, Sinclair described the progress being
                    made and the problems to be solved. Sinclair and Coquillard discovered the Miami were still
                    reluctant and evasive; the customary excuses were offered and the Indians asked for an extension
                    until August to dispose of their remaining "houses, cows and other property." When
                    Sinclair warned them, on his own authority, that no more annuity payments would be made in Indiana,
                    they countered with their fears of moving west in the heat of the summer. The clearest commitment
                    Sinclair could get at the June council was Lafontaine's offer to pay half of the expenses
                    of a party composed of all Indians ready to leave immediately with Coquillard and the
                    chief's promise to bring the remainder on August 1. This offer would not fulfill the terms
                    of the removal contract and Sinclair refused it. Sinclair asked Commissioner Medill not to make any
                    more annuity payments in Indiana and not to pay the debts which would be reported by a new
                    commission then at work; these actions, Sinclair insisted, would prod the Miami toward their new
                        home.49
            
            The chief's boldest action was taken late in June, when—uninvited and at his own
                    expense—he went to Washington to appeal to the President for a further delay. Lafontaine
                    took with him Dr. Fitch, a few subchiefs, and the agency interpreter, George Hunt. Sinclair had not
                    authorized Hunt's absence from the agency; the agent later complained that his work had
                    been impeded while the interpreter was away 
                  
                     48 The May 4-8 council is summarized in William Stuart's
                            notarized statement, July 18, 1846, ibid., Roll 416.
                  
                     49 Joseph Sinclair, Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , to William Medill, Washington, June 1, 1846, ibid., Roll
                            418.
               
                     and pointed out that Lafontaine spoke English well and did not
                    need to take an interpreter to Washington. Meanwhile, the Miami had refused to assemble until their
                    chief returned.50
            
            When the delegation returned in July the impatient agent again indicated to Lafontaine that future
                    annuities would be paid only in the West and hinted that force might be used against the tribe.
                    Sinclair, who had probably opposed the Washington trip, wrote Medill: "The chief expected
                    to effect wonders, and he feels alarmed to report, nothing
                    done."" Later, when the agent was still trying to collect the tribe
                    "peaceably" at Coquillard's assembly camp near Peru, Sinclair charged
                    that "the chief is certainly acting in concert with the traders." Sinclair also
                    accused Fitch of being an instigator of Lafontaine's procrastination and stated that
                    Lafontaine had been avoiding the councils. The chief may have been having some difficulty
                    maintaining his position of leadership because Sinclair reported that Lafontaine had apparently
                    promised some of his subchiefs to secure their exemption from emigration but had failed to gain this
                    authorization; that he might have to resign as chief; and that Lafontaine had been threatened by one
                    of the village chiefs who had accompanied the delegation to Washington in June.51
            
            In August Sinclair's patience evaporated. He asked for a small military force and intimated
                    the only alternative to force was "starvation"—seemingly a futile
                    gesture when directed toward a tribe whose chiefs still possessed extensive lands. He also reported
                    that a group of traders were promising to secure permission for more Miami to remain in Indiana if
                    the Indians would sign fraudulent claims of indebtedness, and charged Dr. Fitch with collusion in
                    accepting fraudulent claims in the awards of May. The traders countered with charges against
                    Sinclair, claiming he had become their active ally without the knowledge of the Indians or the
                    arbitration commission.52 These incidents are examples of the varied efforts of
                    the traders to keep the Indians in Indiana and thus maintain a valuable source of income. Each
                    charge 
                  
                     50 Joseph Sinclair, Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , to William Medill, Washington, June 22, 1846, ibid.
                  
                  
                     51 Joseph Sinclair, Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , to William Medill, Washington, June 1, 22, July 20, and August 14, 1846, ibid.
                  
                  
                     52 Joseph Sinclair, Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , to William Medill, Washington, July 16, 1846, ibid.; Samuel
                            Driver, notarized statement, August 1, 1846, ibid., Roll 416.
               
                     and countercharge, regardless of its significance, had to be
                    investigated and this caused delay.
            The commissioner of Indian affairs was not to be diverted from his primary objective of removing the
                    Miami from Indiana. On September 7 he instructed Sinclair to demand an immediate council with the
                    Indians and to inform the Miami and the traders that neither annuities nor debt awards would be paid
                    until the emigration was completed. Lafontaine called the council meeting at the Forks after
                    Sinclair assured him the Lafontaines could make the trip west with the tribe and then return to
                    Indiana. The agent received notice on September 21, 1846, that the commanding officer of the army
                    district at 
                        Cincinnati
                     had been ordered to send a small troop of soldiers to assist him; the force arrived the
                    next day and encamped at Peru.53
            
            Lafontaine apparently had been ill, but his recovery and regular attendance at the councils now
                    permitted the tribe to resume its deliberations. The presence of troops seemed also to convince
                    Lafontaine further delay was useless. The Miami held a council at Coquillard's camp near
                    Peru on October 1, 1846, and selected a few chiefs to complete the disposal of the remaining
                    properties. Sinclair reluctantly concluded Lafontaine was acting in good faith, even though the
                    chief had not yet succeeded in persuading a single family to move to Coquillard's camp. He
                    finally told the chief that many families must report within the next two days or the troops would
                    start a search for the fugitives. Sinclair had qualms about popular reaction to this extreme
                    measure, since he had received protests from 
                        Hamilton
                     and others against forcible action which the presence of the troops clearly implied.54
            
            The emigration finally started from Peru on October 6, 1846. Three canal boats were loaded with
                    baggage, Indians, and officials of the party. Although no military action was necessary, partly
                    because of the presence of the Lafontaine family, Sinclair cautioned Medill that it would be
                    expedient to have their semiannual payment ready for distribution to the Miami as soon as they
                    reached their western reservation. 
                  
                     53 Joseph Sinclair, Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , to William Medill, Washington, September 21 and 23, 1846, ibid., Roll 418; R. Jones, Washington, to J. Ewing, 
                                Cincinnati
                            , September 11, 1846, ibid.
                  
                  
                     54 Joseph Sinclair, Peru, to William Medill, Washington, October 1,
                            1846, ibid.
                  
               
                     On the second day, the three boats reached Fort 
                        Wayne
                     where the remainder of the tribe was awaiting the conductors; two more boats were added
                    to accommodate them.55
            
            The party followed the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal to its junction with the Miami and Erie Canal in 
                        Ohio
                    , then passed through 
                        Dayton
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , where the entire party was transferred to the steamer 
                        
                            Colorado
                        
                     on the Ohio River. In a report from 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, Sinclair wrote that a few Indians had eluded the conductors at Peru, but that
                    Coquillard had hired Ezekial French, an experienced trader, to find as many as possible and to take
                    them west by a land route. The agent suggested placing these fugitives—some of whom had
                    been involved in murders on the Mississinewa in 1844 and 1845 and so were also fugitives from their
                    own tribe—on the western reservation of the Potawatomi when they were emigrated.56
            
            The expedition reached 
                        St. Louis
                     October 20, 1846; there it transferred to the Clermont II and three
                    days later steamed up the Missouri River. The Indians and baggage were unloaded
                    at 
                        Kansas
                     Landing on the first of November and reached the reservation eight days later.57 Meanwhile, Joseph J. Comparet of Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , who had contracted with the conductors to deliver the Miami ponies to the western
                    reservation, took the more direct land route and arrived at the reservation on November 5. He had
                    left Peru one day after the boat party and had lost only nine of the original herd of ninety-nine
                        animals.58
            
            At the reservation Indian agent Alfred J. Vaughan certified the arrival of 323 Miami. A few Indians
                    had been ill when the journey began; during the first part of the trip there had been six deaths and
                    two births, and the conductors had acquired a few additional Indians on the way. The party included
                    142 males and 181 females; 51 of the males and 53 of the females were under eighteen. Vaughan also
                    prepared 
                  
                     55 Joseph Sinclair, Peru, to William Medill, Washington, October 5,
                            1846, ibid.
                  
                  
                     56 Joseph Sinclair, 
                                Evansville
                            , to William Medill, Washington, October 14, 1846, ibid.
                            French was sent to collect the Wauwasee band which had fled to 
                                Michigan
                            . William G. Ewing, Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , to William Medill, Washington, March 13, 1847, ibid.
                  
                  
                     57 Joseph Sinclair, 
                                St. Louis
                            , to William Medill, Washington, October 20, November 1 and 11, 1846, ibid.
                  
                  
                     58 Joseph J. Comparet, Osage subagency, to Joseph Sinclair, Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , November 5, 1846, ibid. This was a notarized report to the
                            Miami subagent.
               
                     lists of the names and relationships of the family or village
                    of each subchief.59
            
            Sinclair started his return journey to Fort 
                        Wayne
                     on November 10. He left Vaughan and the Indians with the assurance the Miami would have
                    subsistence for another year by the terms of the Dowling contract. After Sinclair's
                    departure the Miami called a council at which Lafontaine informed Vaughan the Indians wished to
                    apologize for their fractiousness at Peru and said they were pleased with their new home. He praised
                    Coquillard's supervision but accused Sinclair of neglect and inattention during the
                    emigration and charged Dr. Fitch with drunkenness.60 Lafontaine spoke of other
                    Miami grievances. The Miami had been disappointed in the past with the results of the training
                    received by some of their children in the Choctaw Academy in 
                        Kentucky
                    . The chief criticized the past use of the tribal school fund and indicated that in
                    their new country they now wanted a school operated by the Roman Catholic church.61
            
            In December when the 
                        St. Louis
                     superintendent of Indian affairs, Thomas H. Harvey, sent $10,000 for the
                    relief of the new arrivals, he ordered that the money be paid to the heads of families. Later, when
                    Harvey accompanied the officials who transported the March, 1847, annuity payment of
                    $33,500 to the Miami, he found Lafontaine still with the tribe. At this time the Indians
                    refused to accept their money as individuals and voted unanimously for the chief to direct the
                    distribution. The council then decided to reserve $25,000 for their debts to the traders,
                    leaving about $40 per person for the actual distribution. The Indians also voted to pay
                    their remaining debts of about the same total amount out of their next two annuity payments.62
            
            "Lafontaine's influence on these peoples," Harvey insisted, "is
                    unlimited. He will leave in a few days for Indiana 
                  
                     59 Joseph Sinclair, 
                                Evansville
                            , to William Medill, Washington, October 14, 1846, ibid.;
                            Alfred J. Vaughan, Osage subagency, to Thomas H. Harvey, 
                                St. Louis
                            , November 12, 1846, ibid., Roll 416. The lists Vaughan
                            prepared provide an excellent census of the tribe.
                  
                            60
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     61 Alfred J. Vaughan, Osage subagency, to Thomas H. Harvey, 
                                St. Louis
                            , November 12, 1846, ibid.; Thomas H. Harvey, 
                                St. Louis
                            , to William Medill, Washington, November 26 and December 13, 1846, ibid.
                  
                  
                     62 Thomas H. Harvey, "Miami Camp," to William
                            Medill, Washington, March 18 and May 17, 1847, ibid.
                  
               
                     after which I hope they will begin to think and act for
                    themselves…. It is due Mr. Lafontaine to say that he expressed himself warmly in favor of
                    ample provision for education of their children…. Lafontaine says he will send his own
                    children to school here." Harvey soon changed his opinion of Lafontaine's prestige
                    in the tribe; after the chief's departure the superintendent found the western Miami had
                    selected a new chief and had declared they would no longer listen to Lafontaine. Harvey was sure,
                    however, that Lafontaine and the Indian traders would continue to exert a great influence on the
                    tribe even though the Miami had declared themselves no longer dependent on their former leaders.63
            
            Though most of the Miami emigrated in 1846, the tribe remained a factor in the efforts of the Ewing
                    group to collect payment from the removal contract and efforts of the Ewings' opponents to
                    delay the final payment as long as possible. A few Indians had eluded the contractors, notably
                    Wauwasee's band which had gone to 
                        Michigan
                    . Four Miami chiefs had returned from the western reservation to Indiana with
                    Lafontaine's family. A few Miami also had been designated to remain in Indiana until all
                    the tribe's property was sold. Since the contract specified emigration of every Indian not
                    exempted by treaty, the contractors feared they would be forced to make another collection and
                    another emigration in 1847 to be followed by a full year's extension of the contract as
                    they subsisted the second group of Miami.64
            
            Coquillard believed Indians who returned to Indiana after being conducted west were no longer the
                    responsibility of the contractors, but offered to remove them again for an additional sum if this
                    would expedite the fulfillment of the contract. He was informed by Commissioner Medill that all the
                    unexempted Miami were a part of the original contract. Accordingly, in the spring of 1847,
                    Coquillard opened a camp in 
                        Kosciusko County
                     and collected thirty Indians. He found a few of these had married Potawatomi making
                    their tribal affiliations vague. He offered to include any members of the Potawatomi in a new
                    emigration contract which would cost the federal government $55 to $65 for
                    each individual, but 
                  
                            63
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     64 Alexis Coquillard, 
                                South Bend
                            , to William Medill, Washington, May 18 and June 25, 1847, ibid., Roll 418; William G. Ewing, Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , to William Medill, Washington, March 13, 1847, ibid.
                  
               
                     the commissioner finally directed Coquillard to collect these
                    Indians at $25 each.65
            
            Meanwhile, Commissioner Medill rejected all the contractors' claims beyond the original
                    contract terms of $55,000, since the document expressly stated that sum was to cover all
                    expenses, including extensions of time. He described the original contract as extravagant because it
                    was based on an anticipated removal of about 650 Indians when in fact only 383 were finally
                    transported. He accused the contractors of causing the delays of the summer of 1846 in order to
                    collect old claims or create new ones. The treasury department finally presented its evidence that
                    the contract eventually paid about $140 for each Miami emigrated. While this was
                    certainly not all profit, it was about double the per capita rate paid for similar contracts.66
            
            In spite of evidence produced by the Office of Indian Affairs and the treasury department that the
                    emigration of the Miami had been excessively profitable for the contractors, the federal government
                    paid $4,410.29 for the expenses of the second emigration in 1847 and permitted the Miami
                    to pay the contractors $4,215.40 as the Indians' contribution. Thus the total
                    costs to the federal government and Indians for the 1846 and 1847 Miami emigrations and required
                    subsistence amounted to $63,625.69. Since this sum was used for the removal of only 383
                    Indians, it is not difficult to understand the eagerness of various traders to share in Indian
                    removal contracts.67
            
            Meanwhile, Francis Lafontaine had died on the return journey at 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana, on April 13, 1847. When the news reached Harvey, he wrote Medill that
                    although the chief had seldom spoken at the western council sessions, he had 
                  
                     65 Alexis Coquillard, 
                                South Bend
                            , to William Medill, Washington, May 18 and June 26, 1847, ibid. For his second emigration Coquillard collected 78 people, "which
                            included every thing in the shape of an Indian in the country." As the conductor
                            was ready to leave for the West, some traders protested the removal of several of
                            Coquillard's party. The case was taken to the 
                                Miami County
                             court, where 17 Indians were declared to be Wea instead of Miami. Coquillard
                            finally delivered 61 Indians to the western reservation on September 10, 1847. Undated
                            report from Alexis Coquillard, 
                                South Bend
                            , to William Medill, Washington, ibid.
                  
                  
                     66 Copy of report by Hiland Hill, September 8, 1861, ibid.
                  
                  
                     67
                            Ibid. The report does not explain the Miami payment.
               
                     been the real leader of the Miami and, with the help of the
                    white traders, could have controlled the "imbecile and indifferent Indians" of his
                    tribe. Harvey explained that he had reported only what he had seen of the chief and knew nothing of
                    Lafontaine's background or previous leadership. Although Sinclair had called the chief
                    "faithless," the 
                        St. Louis
                     superintendent had no doubt of Lafontaine's anxiety and sincerity when
                    representing his people. Even the fact that he saw enough of Lafontaine to be convinced that the
                    chief was "avaricious to a fault, a passion which is not uncommon among traders, and
                    especially Indian traders," did not in Harvey's judgment detract from
                    Lafontaine's qualities of leadership and dedication to his tribe.68
            
            The Miami in Indiana waited for their chief's return during the winter of 1846-1847. Since
                    they expected him to arrive by May 3, 1847, they refused to accept their annuities that spring and
                    decided to receive ther income as individuals only when Lafontaine could be present.69 This devotion to the prerogatives of the principal chief persisted among the Miami in
                    spite of the rumored bitterness of some Indians against those families who had secured exemptions
                    from emigration. The rumors were given impetus by Lafontaine's family who insisted he had
                    been poisoned by rivals remaining in 
                        Kansas
                    . Sinclair's statement that "Lafontaine's death will not be
                    regretted by anyone so severely as by the traders. He never was faithful to his tribe
                    …" may have been colored by the agent's failure to receive from the
                    contractors a salary for cooperating with them in addition to his regular salary as federal
                    superintendent of the removal. But Lafontaine's influence in the councils on the
                        Osage River, the respect in which his office was held by the Miami in
                    Indiana, and the skill he had shown in his tribe's behalf as he delayed the emigration
                    beyond the original terms of the treaty would indicate that the chief was interested in the welfare
                    of his people and that the Miami recognized this interest. Lafontaine's pronounced obesity
                    and the rigors of travel are 
                  
                     68 Thomas H. Harvey, 
                                St. Louis
                            , to William Medill, Washington, May 14, 1847, ibid., Roll
                            416.
                  
                     69 Isaac D. G. Nelson, Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , to Office of Indian Affairs, Washington, January 5 and February 18, 1847, ibid.
                  
                  
                     70 Joseph Sinclair, Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , to William Medill, Washington, April 26, 1847, ibid.; Bash,
                                History of 
                                    Huntington County
                                
                     , I, 37.
               
                     more acceptable explanations for his death than the theory of
                    tribal vengeance.70
            
            Lafontaine's office as principal chief elected in full council had united the scattered
                    Miami villages. His death severed the main link connecting the emigrated Miami to those remaining in
                    Indiana. After Coquillard's removal of the small party in 1847 there was only informal
                    contact between the two Indian groups. The problems of such exempted groups as the Meshingomesia and
                    Godfroy villagers and of the white administrators of the Lafontaine or Richardville assets in
                    Indiana were different from those of the succession of chiefs on the western reservation.71 The latter wielded little tribal power as the number of Miami on the 
                        Kansas
                     reserve dwindled and the federal policy continued to press for individual land
                    ownership and payments of annuities.72 The emigrations of 1846-1847 occurred
                    late in the period of Indian removal so the Miami encountered little harassment from the displaced
                    tribes of the plains and thus were not pressed to combine forces against these tormentors as the
                    earlier emigrant tribes had been. The Miami were moved in a few years to a new Indian territory
                    where they were merged with related tribes. Meanwhile, there was little contact with the remnants of
                    the tribe in Indiana.
            The division in the interests of the Miami was recognized in the treaty concluded at Washington on
                    June 5, 1854: two Indian delegations participated, one representing the "Miami Indians,
                    resident of the State of Indiana," and the other the "Miami Tribe of
                    Indians." The treaty recognized 302 members in the former group but did not give the number
                    on the western reservation. This treaty was made primarily to reduce the size of the western
                    reservation from 500,000 to 70,000 acres.73 The reduction was only a preliminary
                    move, however, and Congress in 1863 authorized the President to move the Indians of 
                        Kansas
                     to the "Indian Country." In 1867 the Quapaw Agency was created to
                    administer an area in the northeast corner of the Indian Territory which had been relinquished by
                    the Quapaw and Seneca tribes and formed 
                  
                     71 Anson, "John Roche—Pioneer Irish
                            Businessman," 51-52.
                  
                     72 About 250 Miami were reported to be on the western reservation at
                            the end of 1849. Senate Executive Documents, 31 Cong., 1 Sess., Vol. II
                            (serial 660), 1096.
                  
                     73 Kappler, Indian Affairs: Laws and Treaties, II,
                            478-83.
               
                     into six reservations. A treaty concluded with several tribes
                    on February 23, 1867, allotted one reservation to the consolidated bands of the Peoria, Kaskaskia,
                    Piankeshaw, Wea, and Miami tribes.74 From about this time the Miami claim to
                    have begun the use of the designation "Miami Tribe of 
                        Oklahoma
                    ," which included the Eel River Miami but not the Wea;
                    according to the Miami the latter had severed their connections with the Miami soon after emigrating
                    to the West about 1820.75 The Miami descendants in Indiana claim an unbroken
                    organization but were inactive until 1934. They held a council in 
                        Wabash
                     in that year and on September 30, 1937, filed articles of incorporation for the
                    "Miami Nation of Indians of the State of Indiana" with headquarters in 
                        Wabash
                    .76 Both the Indiana and 
                        Oklahoma
                     Miami have been active and partially successful with claims presented to the Indian
                    Claims Commission created in 1946.77
            
            The emigration of the Miami, followed by the death of Chief Lafontaine, brought to a close an
                    extended period in which the Miami had exerted considerable influence on the development of the Old
                    Northwest and began a century of near-obscurity. The correspondence of those involved in the
                    emigration shows that Lafontaine exerted more influence on this event than has generally been
                    credited to him. He was cooperative in dealing with whites but at the same time could be evasive and
                    calculating. He understood the privileges and powers of his office in his relations with the
                    subchiefs, the traders, and the Indian agents. He was prepared to bow to the inevitable emigration
                    after it became useless to object and after he had secured the best possible terms for himself and
                    his tribe. He was well aware of the rivalries among the 
                  
                     74 Laurence F. Schmeckebier, The Office of Indian
                                Affairs: Its History, Activities and Organization (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1927), 108-09.
                  
                     75 "Amended Petition Relating to Treaty of October 6,
                            1818," Docket Number 67, Before the Indian Claims Commission,
                            filed August 9, 1951, in a pamphlet entitled "Before the Indian Claims
                            Commission." A recent pamphlet, "In the 
                                United States
                             Court of Claims, Appeal No. 2-58 (Decided July 13, 1959)," contains
                            the current decisions on Miami claims.
                  
                     76
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, March 6 and 8, 1934; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, October 1, 1937.
                  
                     77
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, October 16, 1956, July 19, 1959, and May 24, 1964; 
                                Huntington
                            
                            Herald-Press, January 8, 1957; Jean R. Hanna, Indian Claims Commission,
                            Washington, to the author, September 18, 1959. The law creating the Commission is in 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, LX, 1049-56.
               
                     white merchants and the advantages of fostering controversies
                    involving the Indian agents of the Office of Indian Affairs. As he demonstrated by his reliance upon 
                        Hamilton
                     and Roche, he understood the necessity of cooperating with men whose integrity or
                    self-interest could be used to serve his own interests.
            As a trader and businessman Lafontaine accumulated assets amounting to nearly forty thousand dollars,
                    much of it in specie. There is no evidence that he was ever involved in an inept business
                    transaction. There is a great deal of evidence that he could control his tribe and dominate the
                    factions within the Miami organization. The men most acquainted with the chief never regarded him as
                    a puppet or thought Roche or 
                        Hamilton
                     controlled him. Such observations were made only by those who had themselves failed to
                    dictate Lafontaine's policies.
            Lafontaine's authority as principal chief rested on five bases: personal magnetism;
                    undisputed leadership of his own village and family; ability to control the subchiefs of the other
                    villages who were apt to be his rivals for office and influence; capacity to compete with the white
                    traders and to amass a personal fortune; and prestige with the Indian traders and the federal
                    government. And Lafontaine symbolized a closer union between the Miami groups acknowledged by the
                    federal government as well as the tribe. Had Lafontaine lived and continued to prosper financially,
                    it is probable more of the western Miami would have returned to Indiana to seek his protection.
         
         
         
            Emerson's Lectures in 
                        Indianapolis
                    
            
            
                    Lynda Beltz
                    ∗
                
            On January 1, 1863, a large audience gathered in 
                        Boston
                    's Music Hall to celebrate the fulfillment of President Lincoln's
                    pledge to free the slaves. The signing of the Emancipation Proclamation prompted the
                    "leading patriots in and around 
                        Boston
                    "—among them Ralph Waldo Emerson—to call for a
                    "Musical Festival of rejoicing" in honor of the event. The musicians had tuned
                    their instruments and the "great audience" was waiting expectantly for the
                    overture. But there came instead the unexpected announcement that Emerson had written a prologue for
                    the occasion and that the poet himself would read it. The poem he read was the "
                        Boston
                     Hymn" and, according to one observer, no one who heard Emerson that day
                    "could ever forget the tone and emphasis of the speaker."1
            
            The war years to this point had not been prosperous ones for Emerson. Only a year before the Music
                    Hall recitation the poet had written his brother William that "almost all income from
                    lectures has quite ceased," and "we are all trying to be as unconsuming as candles
                    under an extinguisher…."2 Emerson had continued to lecture
                    during 1861 and 1862, but his engagements were limited mainly to New 
                        England
                    . Emerson's plans for 1863 included a lecture tour in the West—the
                    first he had scheduled since 1860. A few days after the music festival he set out on his travels to
                            
                  New York, Canada, Ohio, Michigan, Wisconsin, Illinois
               , Indiana, and Pennsylvania.3
            
            
               
                  ∗ Lynda Beltz is a teaching associate in the Department of
                        Speech and Theatre, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        . This article is a revision of a paper prepared for a course given by Professor
                        Robert R. Gunderson at Indiana University.
               
                  1
                        Journals of Ralph Waldo Emerson, 1820-1876, ed. Edward Waldo Emerson and Waldo
                        Emerson Forbes (10 vols., 
                            Boston
                        , 1910-1914) IX, 477-79. Hereafter cited as Emerson, Journals.
               
               
                  2 Emerson to William Emerson, January 21, 1862, The Letters
                            of Ralph Waldo Emerson, ed. Ralph L. Rusk (6 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1939), V, 263-64. Hereafter cited as Emerson, Letters.
                        Emerson's books had had no sale during 1861 and his lectures that winter would yield
                        little income; there was less income also from his investments. Ralph L. Rusk, The
                            Life of Ralph Waldo Emerson (
                            New York
                        , 1949), 413.
               
                  3 William Charvat, Emerson's American Lecture
                            Engagements: A Chronological List (
                            New York
                        , 1961), 37-38. Some of Emerson's appearances in Indiana cities are
                        described briefly in Robert R. Hubach, "Nineteenth-Century Literary Visitors to the
                        Hoosier State: A Chapter in American Cultural History," Indiana Magazine
                            of History, XLV (March, 1949), 44-46.
            
            
            The trip was not to be an uneventful one. On the way to his first engagement in 
                        Toronto
                     the famous scholar stopped off on January 4 at Niagara Falls where he spent a quiet
                    Sunday sightseeing and retired early in the American House. At three o'clock in the morning
                    the cry of "Fire!" sounded throughout the hotel. He dressed hurriedly in the dark,
                    collected what possessions he could find, and made his way through a "cloud of smoke and
                    cinders" to the street. The hotel "was burned out thoroughly," leaving
                    only the four walls. Emerson had left most of his baggage at the Suspension Bridge, but he did
                    suffer an important loss—his railroad ticket from Buffalo to 
                        Chicago
                    . He walked the two miles to the bridge where he was lucky enough to meet Reuben N.
                    Rice, a native of Concord who had moved to 
                        Detroit
                     and assumed a position of some authority on the 
                        Michigan
                     Central Railroad. Rice gave him a pass that was good from 
                        Detroit
                     to 
                        Chicago
                     which considerably diminished Emerson's financial loss.4
            
            After this adventure, the New Englander filled his two engagements in 
                        Toronto
                     and then proceeded to 
                        Rochester
                    , Buffalo, 
                  Cleveland, Detroit, Ann
                    Arbor
               , Milwaukee, Racine, and Beloit in quick succession. January 22 found
                    him speaking at Bryan Hall in 
                        Chicago
                    . By then Emerson had been on the road three weeks and had traveled hundreds of miles
                    under conditions often difficult and trying. With a tight schedule to follow, he had spoken almost
                    every weekday night.5
            
            Advance arrangements had been made to include in the tour a lecture in 
                        Indianapolis
                     under sponsorship of the Young Men's Christian Association, but the exact date
                    had not been determined. The agent in 
                        Chicago
                     responsible for arranging Emerson's western schedule was too late in notifying
                    the sponsoring group in 
                        Indianapolis
                     that the lecturer planned to appear there on Friday, January 23. After "a long
                    day's ride from 
                        Chicago
                    ," he arrived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     Friday only to find no preparations had been made for his lecture that night. The
                    Masonic Hall—the only hall in the city—was engaged for the concert of pianist
                    and composer L. M. Gottschalk and soprano Carlotta Patti. Emerson suggested Saturday night, but the
                    hall was booked then for 
                  
                     4 Emerson to Edith Emerson, January 8, 1863, Emerson, Letters, V, 304; Emerson, Journals, IX, 479-80.
                  
                     5 Emerson, Letters, V, 308n; Charvat, Emerson's American Lecture Engagements, 38-39.
               
                    
                    
                  Print courtesy Grand Lodge Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Indiana THE
                                MASONIC HALL OF 1848
               
                    
                    
                  The Bates House, from a colored lithograph by Robyn & Co., 
                                Louisville
                            , on the cover of sheet music, "Bates House Polka," by William
                            H. Currie (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1854). Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     the "farewell" concert of Gottschalk and
                    Patti. Monday night was also out of the question because of a patriotic rally, so the lecture was
                    set on Tuesday, January 27. In a letter to his daughter Emerson explained that he could not give up
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     lecture and go on immediately to his next engagement because "at 
                        Chicago
                    , not suspecting difficulty here, I had emptied my pockets, & made it necessary
                    to read here."6
            
            Though pound poor, Emerson settled down at the Bates House, described in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     city directory at that time as "The First Class House of the City, and in fact
                    the Largest and best arranged House in the state."7 Evidently Emerson
                    was not as impressed with the luxuriousness of the Bates House as were its owners and manager, for
                    he described his stay in 
                        Indianapolis
                     as an "imprisonment in dingy hotel & muddy town."8
            
            On Saturday morning, January 24, Emerson visited the Blind Asylum, "where he witnessed the
                    examination of the different classes, and expressed himself highly pleased with the proficiency of
                    the pupils and the course of instruction of the Asylum." In the asylum's chapel
                    the pupils sang a "spirited song," and he spoke for a few minutes,
                    "congratulating them on the auspicious circumstances in which they were placed, and giving
                    them reasons for feeling that, notwithstanding their misfortune, they had many means of happy and
                    pleasant communication with the world." Superintendent William H. Churchman assured Emerson
                    that the ninety-five pupils greatly appreciated "poetical recitations," and the
                    poet proceeded to recite a ballad by Sir Walter Scott. Since the activities of the blind students
                    were obviously restricted, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Journal seems justified in concluding that the occasion was very pleasant
                    for all parties.9
            
            A Mr. Davis of 
                        Indianapolis
                     endeavored to make Emerson's visit to the Hoosier capital as pleasant as
                    possible. He 
                  
                     6 Emerson to Ellen Emerson, January 24 and 30, 1863, Emerson, Letters, V, 309, 310.
                  
                     7 James S. Sutherland, Sutherland's 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Directory, 1861 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1861), 112. Bates House later became the Claypool Hotel. Indiana
                                History Bulletin, XXX (July, 1963), 115.
                  
                     8 Emerson to Ellen Emerson, January 30, 1863, Emerson, Letters, V, 311.
                  
                     9
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, January 26, 1863. Most of the newspaper items on Emerson
                            cited in this article are reproduced in their entirety in Frederick E. Schortemeier, "
                                Indianapolis
                             Newspaper Accounts of Ralph Waldo Emerson," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, XLIX (September, 1963), 307-12. Exceptions are 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Herald, February 12, 1866, and 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, February 13, 1866.
               
                     brought lawyers and college professors to visit Emerson, and
                    tried to make amends for the fact that the lecturer had arrived from 
                        Chicago
                     to find "no hall & no preparation" awaiting him. Emerson
                    reported that Davis "carried" him to hear Gottschalk and Patti, but the poet was
                    apparently not sufficiently impressed to record his reaction to their performance.10 The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Journal reviewed the concert, however, and their reporter described the
                    program Emerson probably attended. Every piece was "well received" and many of the
                    songs were "rapturously encored." Patti's rendition of the encore
                    "Comin' thro' the Rye" was "sweetly sung," but
                    the "most brilliant vocal gem of the evening was the French Laughing Song."
                    Gottschalk's "perfect imitation of the Banjo concluded the
                        entertainment."11
            
            In a few brief sentences the Daily Journal for Tuesday, January 27, mentioned
                    Emerson's lecture that evening. More print was devoted to an anecdote about the
                    "beautiful and accomplished" Carlotta Patti. The item noted that "the
                    fair cantatrice is slightly lame" and reported that when she came limping on the stage a
                    man in the audience remarked "I pity Patti." But as her "dulcet tones
                    … gushed forth in liquid harmony" his pity was changed to admiration:
                    "His heart went pitty-patti and his hands patted." Immediately below the short
                    paragraph on the singer were six lines announcing that "one of the profoundest thinkers and
                    ablest essayists of the present age, will lecture before the Young Men's Christian
                    Association." And immediately below that timely announcement, in the same local news
                    column, it was noted that on the previous Saturday afternoon "two stables near the Fire
                    Engine House in the 7th Ward, were partially consumed by fire."12
                    Little wonder that in a town where he was mentioned between hearts going
                    "pitty-patti" and stables burning, Emerson thought the best feature of the city
                    the fact that "it is laid out on the model of 
                        Washington City
                     & its streets are named for the States."13
            
            
               
                  10 Emerson to Ellen Emerson, January 24 and 30, 1863, Emerson, Letters, V, 309, 311. Rusk indicates that Davis was probably Edwin A. Davis,
                        an 
                            Indianapolis
                         attorney. Ibid, 311n.
               
                  11
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, January 24, 1863.
               
                  12
                        Ibid., January 27, 1863.
               
                  13 Emerson to Ellen Emerson, January 30, 1863, Emerson, Letters, V, 311. 
                            Indianapolis
                         was first platted by Alexander Ralston, who had "assisted Major
                        L'Enfant in the survey of 
                            Washington City
                        …." Jacob Piatt Dunn, Greater 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                   (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1910), I, 28.
            
            
            Emerson, tall, bony, and undoubtedly wearing his traditional dark suit, must have appeared slightly
                    out of place as he advanced to the stage of Masonic Hall. The hall, standing three stories in
                    height, was located on the southeast corner of 
                        Washington
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                     streets. The first floor was divided into a number of business rooms, the entire second
                    floor was "a large commodious hall" seating about two thousand persons, and all
                    the third floor was devoted to Masonic purposes. A city directory for 1861 describes the room as it
                    appeared when Emerson spoke there: "The Hall is finished in a beautiful style of art. The
                    walls are of a beautiful rose tint—the cornice in silver white, with a beautiful Raphael
                    scroll, relieved by a brilliant blue ground, while the ceiling is tinted so as to give the
                    impression of a greater height to the Hall. It is handsomely elaborated with stucco center pieces in
                    white and blue which lend a soft mellow appearance to the whole interior. The wood work is in
                    equally good taste, being pure white."14 Despite the grandeur of the
                    hall, Emerson had no better word than "tolerable" to describe his visit to the
                    city. Doubtless he found the pay for his lecture—$50—-little
                    compensation for the frustration of rushing "at great haste & inconvenience from 
                        Chicago
                    " only to find his lecture would be delayed for four days.15
            
            About the success of that lecture, much information can be gleaned from the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Journal and the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Gazette. Evidently the weather on Tuesday, January 27, 1863, left much to be
                    desired, for the Journal's reporter stated that "a better night
                    might have brought out a larger crowd … but it could hardly have brought out a more
                    appreciative one" for Emerson's lecture on "Clubs, or
                        Conversation."16 Those who braved the elements to see and hear the
                    famous Ralph Waldo Emerson were probably surprised at the plainness of his appearance. Apparently
                    his lecture audiences were frequently struck by his lack of beauty. He stood nearly six feet tall
                    and sloping shoulders emphasized 
                  
                     14
                            Sutherland's 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Directory, 1861, p. 31; William Wesley Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches of Early Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1883), 606. In 1894 
                                Tennessee
                             Street was changed to Capitol Avenue. Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , I, 31.
                  
                     15 Emerson to Ellen Emerson, January 24 and 30, 1863, Emerson, Letters, V, 309, 311; Charvat, Emerson's American
                                Lecture Engagements, 39.
                  
                     16
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, January 28, 1863. Calvin Fletcher described January 27 as
                            cloudy and gloomy and wrote that it snowed and turned cold that night. Fletcher and his wife
                            attended the lecture. Calvin Fletcher Diary, January 27 and 28, 1863, Indiana Historical
                            Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     his slight build. Below his short cropped brown hair was a thin
                    and deeply lined face. His forehead was narrow, his eyes blue-gray in color, and his nose large and
                    hooked. Frequently he appeared before a lecture audience with an all-too-obvious mixture of
                    bashfulness and embarrassment.17
            
            His 
                        Indianapolis
                     audience seems to have been an appreciative one. As he read his essay, the report said,
                    the subject "was found to be as expressive as before it appeared obscure." The
                    purpose of the lecture was "to show what conversation is, and its value in teaching men or
                    bringing out their characters, and the importance of 'clubs,' or social
                    gatherings, properly applied and regulated, to produce and cultivate genuine
                        conversation."18 Six years later, when Emerson's Society and Solitude was published, it included an essay entitled
                    "Clubs," much of which was taken verbatim from his lecture on the same subject.
                    The purpose of the essay was apparently the same as that of the lecture. Emerson wished to drive
                    home the point that "Wisdom is like electricity…. There is no permanently wise
                    man, but men capable of wisdom, who, being put into certain company, or other favorable conditions,
                    become wise for a short time, as glasses rubbed acquired electric power for a while."
                    Emerson described conversation as "the laboratory and workshop of the student" and
                    said that "the wish to speak to the want of another mind assists to clear your
                        own."19
            
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                     lecture on "Clubs, or Conversation," was filled with
                    "anecdote and erudition." The Journal stated that the poet
                    "had anecdotes and maxims from the Greeks, legends from the Scandinavians, bon-mots from
                    the French, repartees from the English, and facts from everywhere…." The article
                    described Emerson's style of delivery as being "perfectly adapted to his style of
                    oratory … unlike anybody else's, full of quaint jerks and turns of thought, and
                    as quaint halts and modulations of speech, yet both strong, direct, and devoid of the slightest
                    suggestion of a desire to let either help the other by any grace of ornament or oratory."
                    The item noted another interesting aspect of Emerson's delivery: "He has a fashion
                    of seeming to forget the last word or two, always significant, and … stumbling upon them
                    unexpectedly with 
                  
                     17 David Mead, Yankee Eloquence in the Middle West
                            (East Lansing, Mich., 1951), 42-43, quoting 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Daily Gazette and 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Daily Times of January 28, 1867.
                  
                     18
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, January 28, 1863.
                  
                     19
                            The Complete Writings of Ralph Waldo Emerson (
                                New York
                            , 1929), 690, 696.
               
                     an effort that the most elaborate declamation could not
                    produce." The reporter emphatically declared that this was no "trick of the
                    rostrum" on Emerson's part, but merely a "necessary halting of the speech
                    to let the idea catch up with it." To illustrate what he had in mind, the reporter then
                    continued: 
                        Speaking of the bringing out of one thought by another in conversation, a corresponding or
                            related thought … [Emerson] said: "Thoughts always go in pairs. One fact
                            recalls another, however distant in time or different in circumstances the knowledge of it
                            may have been acquired. Related thoughts will come together. Thoughts go in pairs. And this
                            is the reason, probably, why, when a man tells a good story he
                            invariably"—hesitating as if he had forgotten what to say—"tells it again."20
                     
                  
                    
            
            The Daily Gazette reported that Emerson's audience was an intelligent and
                    appreciative one, and—like the Journal—remarked that the
                    lecture abounded with "anecdotes, maxims, and queer illustrations." It noted that
                    Emerson stressed the value of clubs for the purpose of "providing the necessity, and
                    developing a healthy flow of Conversation." The only objection to his style or manner of
                    lecturing was that it was "too much like a book." His delivery was described as
                    not "bold and full enough" to enable hearers to "take in every sentiment
                    and digest it before another of equal or greater importance is uttered." The critic
                    compared the organization of the lecture to a child stringing beads with a thread that is
                    unknotted—"the ideas drop off as fast as they are run
                    on"—and also suggested that perhaps "a better selection of a subject
                    could have been made for this time and latitude."21
            
            The mix-up in 
                        Indianapolis
                     apparently caused the poet to miss an engagement at Erie and possibly another at
                    Meadville, Pennsylvania. A master at understatement, Emerson wrote to his daughter from the
                    Monongahela House in 
                        Pittsburgh
                    : "I did not have good fortune in my trip to 
                        Indianapolis
                    ". Emerson left 
                        Indianapolis
                     the day after his lecture and arrived in 
                        Pittsburgh
                     on Thursday, January 29; his lectures there were scheduled for February 3 and 5. Since
                    his first 
                        Pittsburgh
                     lecture was delivered in a hall where the temperature was "somewhere between
                    320 and zero," Emerson was no doubt most happy to complete his engagements there and return
                    to his home in Concord.22
            
            
               
                  20
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, January 28, 1863.
               
                  21
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Gazette, January 28, 1863.
               
                  22 Emerson to Ellen Emerson, January 30, 1863, Emerson, Letters, V, 310-11; ibid., 311n.
            
            
            The following year Emerson apparently gave only two lectures outside New 
                        England
                    —one in 
                        New York
                     City and one in West 
                        Chester
                    , Pennsylvania. He made numerous appearances on the New 
                        England
                     lecture circuit, however, and, knowing that he would soon be forced to take to the road
                    again to meet expenses, found time to write a new series of six lectures called "American
                    Life." The most popular lecture in the series was "Social Aims," which he
                    delivered first on December 4, 1864, at 
                        Boston
                    . For this lecture alone he was to receive a total of more than $4,000
                    between 1864 and 1870. Early in 1856 Emerson again traveled west, reading the entire
                    "American Life" series at both 
                        Chicago
                     and Milwaukee and giving one lecture at each of his other stops in 
                  New York, Ohio
               , Pennsylvania, and 
                        Wisconsin
                    .23 The need for funds forced him to travel to 
                        Brooklyn
                     for two series of lectures in December, 1865,24 and to arrange for
                    1866 the most extensive western tour he had undertaken since 1860. Emerson returned to Indiana on
                    this trip and lectured at 
                  La Porte, Richmond
               , and 
                        New Albany
                     as well as 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Other western states he visited that year were Pennsylvania, 
                  Ohio, Illinois,
                            Iowa, Wisconsin, Michigan
               , and 
                        New York
                    .
            Hotels in the West were improving and travel was becoming somewhat easier, but his western trip in
                    1866 was still long and arduous—especially for a sixty-two-year-old man—and
                    kept him away from home from the second week in January until February 19. The editors of his Journals report, however, that he "almost invariably returned rather
                    refreshed and stimulated by his winter's experiences in the advancing West."25
            
            During 1866 Emerson read "Social Aims" over and over again. Before he presented it
                    at Masonic Hall on February 13,1866, he had read it at least fourteen times on the western tour
                        alone.26 A relatively short essay, it contained some lofty ideas:
                    "Manners are greater than laws; by their delicate nature they fortify themselves with an
                    impassable wall of 
                  
                     23 Charvat, Emerson's American Lecture
                                Engagements, 10, 40-46; Uncollected Lectures by Ralph Waldo
                            Emerson, ed. Clarence Gohdes (
                                New York
                            , 1932), 17.
                  
                     24 Rusk, Life of Ralph Waldo Emerson, 431.
                  
                     25 Emerson, Journals, X, 129; Charvat, Emerson's American Lecture Engagements, 10, 41-42. A discussion of
                            Emerson's interest in the western lecture tours and the effect of these contacts
                            with the West on Emerson and his ideas is in Russel B. Nye, "Emerson in 
                                Michigan
                             and the Northwest," 
                        
                                    Michigan
                                 History Magazine, XXVI (Spring, 1942), 159-72.
                  
                     26 Charvat, Emerson's American Lecture
                                Engagements, 41-42.
               
                     defence…. While one man pins us to the wall, with
                    another we walk among the stars…. Life is short, but there is always time for
                    courtesy…. Social enjoyment requires one or two companions, related by ties of the mind
                    or the heart."27
            
            Emerson probably found 
                        Indianapolis
                     greatly changed by the Civil War. As historians and observers of that period have
                    noted, the Hoosier capital altered its outlook and very way of life during the war years. According
                    to John H. Holliday, the "grim era closed upon a new 
                        Indianapolis
                    ." A once quiet town was replaced by a "bustling city with new ideas,
                    new aspirations, new ways." The population of the city more than doubled between 1860 and
                    1866, money was plentiful, and real estate boomed. The total valuation of property for taxation
                    increased approximately ten million dollars during the five year period, an indication of the
                    general expansion. A new sophistication and a certain blasé attitude were noted along
                    with these material changes.28
            
            Newspaper coverage of Emerson's visit in 1866 tends to reflect this change. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Herald advertised that Emerson, the "eminent poet and
                    scholar," would deliver the third lecture in the current series sponsored by the Young
                    Men's Library Association and that his subject, "Social Aims in America,"
                    promised to be "a rare intellectual treat." The Daily Journal
                    ran the same advertisement on its front page. Both advertisements included the fact that admission
                    to the lecture was fifty cents, reserved seats costing seventy-five cents. The 1863 lecture had been
                    announced for seven o'clock; the 1866 lecture was scheduled to begin at "1/4 to 8
                        o'clock."29
            
            Newspaper comments on the lecture were most precise. The Daily Journal announced in
                    its news columns: 
                        The citizens of 
                                Indianapolis
                             have been duly and sufficiently advised of the fact that Ralph Waldo Emerson,
                            the lecturer, philosopher and scholar, delivers to-night, at the Masonic Hall, the third
                            lecture in course under the auspices of the Young Men's Mercantile Library
                            Association, of 
                                Indianapolis
                            . To inform our readers that of all the professional 
                        
                           27
                                    Uncollected Lectures by Ralph Waldo Emerson, 17-19.
                        
                           28 Dunn, Greater 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        
                           , I, 238. The material cited is in the chapter, "Civil
                                    War Times," by John H. Holliday. George C. Mercer, One Hundred
                                        Years of Service: A History of the Y.M.C.A. of 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        
                            (
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , 1964), 12; Berry R. Sulgrove, History of 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         and 
                                            Marion County
                                        , Indiana (
                                        Philadelphia
                                    , 1884), 16, 17; Kenneth M. Stampp, "The Impact of the Civil
                                    War upon Hoosier Society," Indiana Magazine of History,
                                    XXXVIII (March, 1942), 8-9.
                        
                           29
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    Daily Herald, February 12, 1866; 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    Daily Journal, February 13, 1866.
                     
                             lecturers in our country, Mr. Emerson is, perhaps, the
                            most distinguished, would be to presume an unpardonable ignorance on the part of our people
                            who know that fact as well as we do….30
                  
                    
            
            The Daily Gazette and the Daily Herald were equally matter of
                    fact. The former announced that "Masonic Hall will contain an audience to-night
                    composed—be they many or few—of the intelligent and intellectual of our
                    community. It is not everybody that can appreciate Mr. Emerson…. But in a city as large
                    as this, there ought to be enough to furnish a good size audience."31
                    The Herald noted that "Our citizens must not forget the opportunity of
                    hearing the lecture this evening of this distinguished American poet and popular
                        writer."32
            
            According to the report in one newspaper it would seem that Emerson's audience was not as
                    "appreciative" as it had been in 1863. Though there was a "fair"
                    turnout to hear him speak, the lecture was "barely" acceptable. He seemed to be
                    "out of humor" from some cause or other; the reporter wondered if it was perhaps
                    because in the midst of the "splendor" of Masonic Hall he was forced to lecture
                    from behind an "old, greasy kitchen table, with a candle box on top
                        …"33
            
            This time Emerson's visit to the Hoosier capital was brief and uneventful. He received
                    $65 for reading "Social Aims," stayed at the Bates House once again,
                    and moved on immediately to 
                        New Albany
                     where he was paid $100 for a lecture the following night.34
            
            Though he was to make several other western tours before his death in 1882, Emerson never visited 
                        Indianapolis
                    —or Indiana, for that matter—again as a lecturer.35 Whether this was his decision or due to lack of response from those approached in 
                        Indianapolis
                     has not been—and possibly cannot be—determined. It would seem,
                    however, that the "intelligent and intellectual" of the city were not as impressed
                    by Emerson on his second visit as had been the audience that braved the elements in 1863.
            
               
                  30
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, February 13, 1866.
               
                  31
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Gazette, February 13, 1866.
               
                  32
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Herald, February 13, 1866.
               
                  33
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Gazette, February 14, 1866.
               
                  34 Charvat, Emerson's American Lecture
                        Engagements, 42. Emerson had lectured in 
                            Richmond
                        , Indiana, on February 12; he appeared in 
                            New Albany
                         on February 14. Ibid.
               
               
                        35
                        Ibid.
                    
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The 
                            Michigan
                         Record in Higher Education. By Willis F. Dunbar. (
                        Detroit
                    : 
                        Wayne
                     State University Press, 1963. Pp. 463. Illustrations, tables, notes, index.
                    $9.50.)
            The aim of this book is comprehensive ("… a pioneer effort to trace the evolution
                    of 
                        Michigan
                    's system of higher education from the earliest days to the present")
                    and broadly utilitarian ("We can plan intelligently for the future only if we are aware of
                    how our present colleges and universities were established in the first place, the purposes they
                    were designed to serve, how these purposes have changed and modified, and the peculiar genius of
                    each institution."). Dr. Dunbar, Chairman of the Department of History at Western 
                        Michigan
                     University, pursues this ambitious set of objectives in this diligently researched and
                    carefully written historical account, making wide use of existing published materials and also
                    considerable use of certain kinds of source materials. The book evidences more interest in the
                    formal, organizational, and structural side of institutions of higher education than in the more
                    distinctively "educational" aspects. It is very heavy on the side of the acts and
                    policies of college presidents, fiscal data and problems, legislative provisions, new building
                    programs, and enrollment figures. It is true, however, that a wide variety of other matters are at
                    least touched upon.
            Most of the book is written in a straight-forward, factual way, with no special axe-grinding in
                    evidence. The distribution of emphasis and allotment of space among various institutions or types of
                    institutions seems eminently fair. Dr. Dunbar's "let's look at the
                    record" approach, however, is interlarded with a considerable number of statements of a
                    "cause and beneficial (detrimental) effect" variety, often worded in such a way as
                    to make empirical checking impossible.
            
               The 
                            Michigan
                         Record in Higher Education has several attractive features. Its general format
                    and its typography are bright and appealing to the eye, and it has a good assortment of photographs
                    of buildings and other physical facilities and of important individuals in 
                        Michigan
                     higher education. There is a detailed index, which is first-rate and has considerable
                    cross-referencing. The factual content is well documented on the whole in the notes at the end of
                    the book, although no annotative comment is included. As far as the different kinds of institutions
                    are concerned, the coverage is quite complete. One of the most illuminating aspects of the book is
                    its treatment of the evolution of the dual system of public institutions and private church-related
                    institutions which has been especially characteristic of midwestern 
                        United States
                    .
            The aim of the author for comprehensiveness has fallen somewhat short of the mark in that many
                    aspects of higher education receive no mention or are very lightly touched upon. Among the omitted
                    or slighted topics are: developments relating to internal control, especially  from the point of view of faculty participation in college and
                    university government; academic freedom and tenure for the faculty; and the "politics of
                    higher education" in the state of 
                        Michigan
                    . Also, the book barely touches on student life, particularly those aspects that are
                    related to conditions of freedom for students viewed as campus citizens. Although the decade of the
                    1950's is discussed in some detail from the point of view of mounting enrollments, there is
                    no mention of any manifestations of the McCarthy era on any of the 
                        Michigan
                     campuses. Further, one can find no illumination in this book on the developing problem
                    of institutional paternalism. Indeed, there is virtually nothing included in the book on the rapidly
                    expanding sphere of power on college campuses of the office of the dean of students. Similarly
                    missing from the scope of this book is any discussion of the origins and growth of bureaucracy in
                    institutions of higher education in 
                        Michigan
                    .
            Avowedly written with the utilitarian aim of providing a useful resource for public policy formation,
                    the book raises interesting questions of conceptual design which cannot be entertained in a brief
                    review. Nonetheless, this far from definitive work is clearly and interestingly written and is bound
                    to be very useful for the wide range of factual information which it contains.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Stanley E. Ballinger
         
         
            
               Mark Twain in 
                            Virginia
                         City. By Paul Fatout. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1964. Pp. xiv, 240. Illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $6.50.)
            The Nevada years are not an unknown segment of Mark Twain's biography and one might question
                    if there were enough new facts or insights to justify a new book on the subject. There are not.
            Professor Fatout hopes "to recreate, in part, Mark Twain's life in Washoe"
                    with the aid of uncollected or unnoted materials, chiefly newspapers (p. xii). He has indeed dug
                    deeply, though, upon assay, the vein is of poor yield. There just is not enough of Mark
                    Twain's journalistic writing to make the effort deeply significant. A pity, for surely
                    Twain wrote much and a close study of it all would surely tell us much about the man and his
                    development as a writer. But the files of the 
                        Virginia
                     City Enterprise, for which he wrote, do not exist for these years and
                    though Twain once had personal archives of clippings and copies, he burned them. What Fatout does is
                    to recover as much as possible from other western papers which copied the Enterprise. By this laborious process he has rescued a number of short items by Twain, none of
                    them unusually exciting, plus some of dubious ancestry, which the author must label as
                    "possibly written by Mark Twain," or "seem written in the spirit of Mark
                    Twain," or "have a Twainian tone" (pp. 93, 154, 184).
            Mark Twain's western years are narrated in a lively manner and the book should appeal to the
                    general reader. There are large slices of local color, quite fascinating in themselves, though often
                    the emphasis  is more on Nevada than on Mark Twain. Those with a
                    more than general interest in Twain will find the recovered Twain items worth reading and will at
                    the same time observe how often his humor is indistinguishable from that of contemporary
                    journalists. Nor can one detect in these early writings any evidence of the rich and original things
                    which later Twain was to do with this apprenticeship. Such a reader, too, will note the scattered
                    evidence that Twain was not without personal blemish and that he was not even universally beloved.
                    He did stir some men to deep affection and loyalty, but there were as many who disliked or detested
                    him. Even after discounting for western exaggeration, one finds that the epithets keep their
                    sting—-"ass," "that silly idiot," "an
                    erratic mind," "moral phenomenon," "consistent lying,"
                    "cunningness of egotism." The author is right to observe Twain's capacity
                    for cultivating people, such as Artemus Ward, who could help him; he is also right to note several
                    instances when Twain, who pulled many a joke and trick and hoax on others, could not always
                    gracefully endure being gulled. Even this early in his life Mark Twain was a complex and many-sided
                    being.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            J. A. Robbins
         
         
            
               Harry Leon Wilson: Some Account of the Triumphs and Tribulations of an American
                        Popular Writer. By George Kummer. (
                  Cleveland, Ohio
               : The Press of
                    Western Reserve University, 1963. Pp. 161. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $4.50.)
            The author suggests in the Preface two reasons for having written a biography of Harry Leon Wilson:
                    first, it will serve as a reference for students of American literature, particularly American
                    humor; and second, he hopes it will rescue this "popular writer" of the early
                    1900's from falling into obscurity. Dr. Kummer believes that the creator of such delightful
                    characters as Bunker Bean, Ma Pettengill, Ruggles, Cousin Egbert, Professor Copplestone, and Merton
                    Gill deserves to be remembered and enjoyed by readers of the modern generation.
            Wilson began his career as a writer at an early age in his father's newspaper and printing
                    office in 
                  Oregon, Illinois
               . Later he was employed by the Bancroft History Company to
                    assist in the collection of materials for the company's multivolume historical series.
                    During his free time Wilson taught himself the art of writing, using as a guide the
                    country's foremost humor magazine, Puck. In 1892 Wilson joined the staff
                    of that magazine and four years later assumed the editorship.
            Wilson resigned his position with Puck in 1902 and retired to his wife's
                    family home in 
                        Missouri
                     to write. After the completion of three mediocre novels, he collaborated with Booth
                    Tarkington in writing plays for provincial America. The first and most successful of these was The Man from Home. As interest in the "road" theater began to
                    decline and competition from 
                        Broadway
                     became greater, Wilson settled in Carmel and returned to writing comic novels. Here,
                    between 1912 and 1925, he produced his best works: Bunker Bean, Ruggles of Red Gap,
                        Merton of the Movies, Oh, Doctor! and Professor How Could You!
            
            
            Kummer's brief biography of Wilson is an excellent example of what can and should be done
                    with minor American writers. Biographical details are kept to a minimum, and are generally concerned
                    with events which most influenced his writings. As it should be, the major portion of the book is
                    devoted to an analysis of Wilson's novels, the main aspects of which are very well handled.
                    Kummer has made extensive use of Wilson's personal papers and has included a bibliography
                    of his books.
            The book should have a particular appeal for readers interested in the social history of the 
                        United States
                     for, although his ability to write was limited. Wilson's novels provide a
                    commentary on life in the 1920's. These views, frequently differing from those presented by
                    other writers of the period such as Sinclair Lewis or F. Scott Fitzgerald, have been more than
                    adequately explored by the author. Wilson, the defender of the small town, was a product of
                    provincial America who wrote for provincial America. For this reason alone, Kummer is more than
                    justified in his attempt to preserve Wilson's name for posterity.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Richard T. Farrell
         
         
            
               Independent Historical Societies: An Enquiry into Their Research and Publication
                        Functions and Their Financial Future. By Walter Muir Whitehill. ([
                        Boston
                    ]: The 
                        Boston
                     Athenaeum, 1962. Pp. xviii, 693. Notes, index. $12.50.)
            In the annals of American historical scholarship no single group of institutions has loomed larger in
                    importance than the major state and regional historical societies. Since 1791, when the 
                        Massachusetts
                     Historical Society was founded, these organizations have done most of the work of
                    gathering and preserving the historical source materials without which a great deal of American
                    history could not have been written. They have made a major contribution to a better understanding
                    of the American past. How these societies developed, what they have accomplished, and what the
                    future may hold for them are questions to which Whitehill addresses himself in the book. Emphasis is
                    on the independents, but considerable attention is given to the nonindependent societies and
                    agencies whose support comes partly or wholly from public funds.
            Mr. Whitehill begins his book with chapters on the major eastern independent societies, and follows
                    this with discussions of geographical groupings of other societies around the country. He traces
                    each society's history, evaluates its accomplishments, examines its present-day operations,
                    and seeks to detect trends which may indicate its future course of development. He also discusses
                    some of the vexing questions facing these societies today—whether to seek broad or
                    limited membership, the relative advantages of trying to serve the more "popular"
                    needs of the average citizen or the more limited needs of the historical scholar, and the role of
                    the society in such fields as the collection of source materials, operation of historic sites and
                    museums, and publications.
            
            The author's long years of experience with such outstanding "independents"
                    as the 
                        Boston
                     Athenaeum, of which he is the capable director, assure him a wide audience that
                    probably will place great store in what he has to say. And this is unfortunate. Independent Historical Societies, despite a wealth of useful factual information, is a
                    one-sided interpretation of the historical society movement. It is essentially a rejection of the
                    view held by most nonindependent societies—that the society must not only serve the needs
                    of the scholar but must also serve, in a variety of ways, the needs and interests of a great many
                    nonscholars. Whitehill has a right to his views on the role of the historical society, but to this
                    reviewer he seems downright uncharitable in his evaluation of societies which do not follow the
                    pattern of the major independents.
            The crux of the matter is that Whitehill—and many of the independent societies for which
                    he speaks—believes that "it is only the serious workers that count, and their
                    numbers will always be small" (p. 576). This may have been true a half century or full
                    century ago, when a knowledge of history and of the nation's development was almost a
                    birthright of every citizen—when the fourth of July was more a joyous public testimonial
                    to patriotism than an excuse for a backyard barbecue. But times have changed, and a whole
                    nation's sense of history has receded and diminished in the process. Whitehill's
                    independent societies may, if they wish, feel the self-satisfaction of continuing to serve well the
                    "few who really count," but in this reviewer's opinion the nation and the
                    historical profession will in the long run owe their greatest debt to those historical societies
                    that most feel Mr. Whitehill's sting—those that believe the number of people who
                    "count" is very great indeed. It is to be hoped that their efforts and their
                    philosophy will some day be expounded by so eloquent and gifted a writer as Mr. Whitehill.
            
                    American Association for State and Local History
                
            William T. Alderson
         
         
            
               The Papers of James 
                            Madison
                        
               , Volume 3, 3 March 1781—31 December 1781. Edited
                    by William T. Hutchinson and William M.E. Rachal. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1963. Pp. xxv, 381. Illustrations, notes, chronology, index. $10.00.)
            The third volume of The Papers of James 
                            Madison
                        
                spans a year of near-despair and climactic military victory at Yorktown. As
                    reflected in the private letters, reports, and memoranda of 
                        Madison
                     and his correspondents, most of them Virginians, 1781 was a year of great weariness, of
                    deep anxiety over British naval and military strength as Cornwallis and Arnold pressed their
                    campaign into 
                        Virginia
                    , and of growing concern lest the "perpetual union" shatter on the
                    jagged edges of chaotic finance and state particularism. These 174 documents, 76 of them 
                        Madison
                    's personal communications, convey a sense of just what confederation, rather
                    than national solidarity, meant. They also reveal clearly why it was that 
                        Madison
                    , proud Virginian though he was, had become a Nationalist by the time of
                    Cornwallis' surrender.
            
            
               
                        Madison
                     counseled 
                        Virginia
                     officers to surrender nothing to the claims of 
                        Connecticut
                     and 
                        New York
                     in the squabble over western lands, and he showed marked concern for the future of 
                        Mississippi
                     navigation and the future of the 
                        Kentucky
                     country; yet his anguish over lack of cooperation between the states in military
                    affairs, his awareness that sectional rivalry was leading to fiscal ruin, and his steady support of
                    attempts to adopt the Impost mark him by 1781 as a Virginian who was prepared to embrace much of the
                    program advocated by Robert Morris and his associates. To what degree 
                        Madison
                     and his correspondents were moved toward this position as a result of the pillaging of
                    their native state is problematical, but if there is one dominant theme that runs through this
                    volume it is the war effort and the growing realization of the helplessness of American arms without
                    the shield of French men-of-war. After reading this volume, it is not difficult to comprehend the
                    Francophilism of southern Republicanism which developed in the 1790's.
            While it is no fault of the editors, whose meticulous research is evidenced in a wealth of footnotes, 
                        Madison
                     as a personality is scarcely recognizable. How much more alive to us John Adams and
                    Thomas Jefferson become as we read the contemporary editions of their papers. Not so in the case of 
                        Madison
                    , who is entirely admirable in his devotion to duty, clearheaded in his analysis of
                    events, but scarcely arresting. Entirely lacking is the passion and vehemence of Adams or the
                    wide-ranging fascination with life in all its variety that Jefferson showed from youth to old age.
                    At times, too, the thoroughness of the editors in choosing to publish everything that 
                        Madison
                     wrote unnecessarily burdens the reader with repetition or with such useless items as a
                    weekly report of the 
                        Virginia
                     delegation to Governor Thomas Nelson saying only that there is nothing to report (p.
                    232).
            Scholars will be delighted, however, to find the confusion of being unable to identify a
                    correspondent or his relation to events being discussed a thing of the past so far as this edition
                    is concerned. Gaillard Hunt would surely be astounded by the depth of research which goes into the
                    post-Boyd manuscript editions. The speed with which dissertations may now be completed because of
                    this quarrying should be obvious to sharp-eyed graduate students.
            
                    
                  
                            Wabash
                         College
                
            Stephen G. Kurtz
         
         
            
               Prologue to Conflict: The Crisis and Compromise of 1850. By Holman 
                        Hamilton
                    . ([
                        Lexington
                    ]: University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press, 1964. Pp. viii, 236. Maps, notes, appendixes, biographical essay, index.
                    $5.00.)
            Much has been written concerning the mid-century controversy and settlement, but no one has gone so
                    carefully into its multifarious implications as has Professor 
                        Hamilton
                    . He does not neglect the older trio—
                        Clay
                    , Webster, and Calhoun—involved in this sectional drama, but he emphasizes
                    the role of numerous other figures and pays particular attention to procedures and developments in
                    the House of Representatives  The political and sectional angles
                    of the issues involved are explored in precise fashion; in fact, there are appendixes indicating the
                    political alignments and votes of House and Senate members on key legislative proposals. Convincing
                    evidence is presented that the Democrats were more responsible for the Compromise than the Whigs and
                    that the North more strongly favored it than did the South. Webster is not regarded as very
                    influential in securing northern votes for the Compromise. 
                        Clay
                    's leadership was weakened as a result of his unsuccessful fight for the
                    Omnibus Bill. But Douglas, with the ability to put together winning political combinations, is
                    credited with doing much to get the final measures enacted. The author, while recognizing compromise
                    as in the American tradition, feels that it might have been better for the future welfare of the
                    country if President Taylor's uncompromising stand had been put to the test in 1850.
            A factor influencing settlement of the 
                        Texas
                    -
                        New Mexico
                     dispute was the bondholders' lobby. The aim was the assumption of certain 
                        Texas
                     obligations by the 
                        United States
                     in return for that state's recognition of boundary claims by 
                        New Mexico
                    . While members of Congress do not appear to have held the bonds in question, they had
                    much pressure exerted upon them by William W. Corcoran and other lobbyists who did hold bonds or
                    were acting for those who did.
            In interesting fashion the monograph suggests the implications of the whole package of legislative
                    enactments for the 1850's. The Compromise, in some respects, worked out in either
                    unexpected or undesirable ways. The territorial settlement, as Douglas viewed it, established a
                    precedent for the later 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Act. The Fugitive Slave Law, supposed to be a southern gain, caused increasing
                    resentment of the South. 
                        California
                    , though a free state, sent to the Senate individuals generally favorable to the South.
            
               
                        Hamilton
                    , using quite a variety of sources and writing in a dispassionate manner, reveals well
                    the spirit and temper of the era with which he deals. On at least one matter of judgment, however,
                    the reviewer can scarcely agree with him. That is that President Pierce, had he had more imagination
                    and qualities of leadership, might have eased sectional tensions by effective political solution of
                    most of the economic problems of the 1860's. Pierce admittedly had his shortcomings, but
                    without them the checkered pattern of economic cross-currents would indeed have been difficult to
                    resolve.
            
                    
                  
                            Ohio
                         State University
                
            Henry H. Simms
         
         
            
               William McKinley and His America. By H. Wayne Morgan. (
                        Syracuse
                    , N.Y.: 
                        Syracuse
                     University Press, 1963. Pp. xi, 696, Illustrations, notes, index. $9.00.)
            
               McKinley, Bryan, and the People. By Paul W. Glad. Critical Periods
                        of History Series. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : J. B. Lippincott Company, 1964. Pp. 222. Tables, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $3.95.)
            These two new books about late nineteenth-century American politics differ considerably in both
                    intent and execution. Yet in what is probably  the most
                    comprehensive judgment that either author renders—the placement of McKinley, Bryan, and
                    their movements in the general context of American history—they are in rough agreement.
                    Professor Glad has written a concise history of a crucial election; Professor Morgan's
                    concern is the history of a complex and variously fated man. One is an analysis and summation, cast
                    broadly as a narrative, of the best and latest scholarship on the campaign of 1896; the other is a
                    large-scale biography, resting largely on primary sources, of President McKinley. Glad's
                    book has a bibliographical essay but no notes; Morgan's has notes (unfortunately at the
                    back) but no bibliography. Glad provides little in the way of new information but has achieved a new
                    synthesis, not only thorough but refreshing, of a critical problem; Morgan provides few broad
                    departures from existing interpretations of McKinley, but substantially reinforces our knowledge.
            
               McKinley, Bryan, and the People is much less a monographic treatment of the
                    campaign and election of 1896 than it is a colorful and well-organized account of the inadequacy of
                    either political group in 1896 as a response to the social and economic changes of the period. Glad
                    finds that although both Bryan and McKinley were practical men, skillful and experienced
                    professional politicians, more moderate than many of their followers, both nevertheless found the
                    truly difficult problems of their day opaque. Instead of analyzing these problems realistically,
                    each allowed himself to be governed by a prevalent nineteenth-century myth: in McKinley's
                    case it was that of the "self-made man"; in Bryan's, that of the
                    "yeoman farmer." Thus the candidates were "practical" but not as
                    "realistic" as more radical but more perceptive reformers such as H. D. Lloyd.
                    Such a point of view raises a number of problems about the nature and limits of political parties
                    and party leadership (in the specific context of the 1890's) which Glad does not explore,
                    and neither will this reviewer. It is more fruitful to observe that, partly as a result of setting
                    Bryan and McKinley in a myths-vs.-realities, practical-vs.-realistic framework, the two leaders
                    appear to have been much more alike, much less different, than is customarily thought.
            Glad, however, avoids oversimplification. Bryan was indeed "more unorthodox," and
                    for that matter more interesting (he gets considerably more space than McKinley). Though
                    Bryan's followers held "agrarian myths," farmers and others did not go
                    through a complex and prolonged depression in the 1890's. Nearly half of the book deals
                    with events prior to the nominating conventions of 1896, as well it might. Glad does not minimize
                    the importance of the money question, the contrasts between the tactics and strategies of the two
                    parties, the conflicts within each. But the author never loses sight of his point that even if Bryan
                    had won, no radical break with the past would have Occurred, since "Both Bryan and
                    McKinley, each in his own way, took the side of the conservatives" (p. 209).
            
               William McKinley and His America is a sound if traditional biography (in spite of
                    the title it is not a "life and times") of an insufficiently noticed President.
                    While Morgan is not attracted by new methodologies he does a thorough job and has brought sympathy
                    and  insight to his task. He is sometimes
                    cliché-prone (more than one man "swallowed his gorge") and sometimes
                    facile (the President brought "business" to favor intervention; he "knew
                    in his heart" after the 
                        
                            Maine
                        
                     incident that intervention was unavoidable). On the other hand his treatment of the
                    unfortunate Mrs. McKinley, and of McKinley's relations with her, is respectable indeed, and
                    his chapters on the McKinleys' domestic life in Washington are strong ones.
                    McKinley's career prior to his election in 1896 gets extensive treatment (almost half the
                    book), and throughout that period he develops as a man of great personal courage and rectitude, a
                    moderate progressive for his day. He early became the "apostle of protection" and
                    later accepted reciprocity less from expediency than from humanitarianism, according to Morgan; a
                    bimetallist in the 1870's, he needed to shift but slightly to accept the 1896 Republican
                    money plank. Mark Hanna, of course, did not "run" McKinley; rather the reverse.
                    Yet the author recognizes that the man who entered the White House favoring reciprocity and
                    international bimetallism ended up with the Dingley Tariff and the Gold Standard Act.
            Morgan's interpretation of the outbreak of war in 1898 is essentially that the pacific
                    McKinley did all he could to avoid intervention in the face of journalistic, public, and
                    congressional pressure, but when 
                        Spain
                     did not respond to his minimum demands for peace-keeping, he was forced to accept the
                    congressional movement toward intervention. By April 10, 1898, McKinley "had lost freedom
                    of action," and Morgan finds him guilty of a "lack of imagination" in
                    pursuing a course which failed to provide him with escape routes when war became imminent (pp. 374,
                    375). On balance, Morgan finds McKinley no innovator, but an able party chief, who, if he followed
                    as often as he led, nevertheless provided policies acceptable to the majority. He was a
                    "transitional" President "trying through his policies of conservative
                    conciliation to ease his country and his people into the new position their responsibilities
                    demanded" (p. 527).
            Each of these books succeeds in its intent. Although the lettering on the spine of Glad's is
                    in silver and that on Morgan's in gold, both stress more what bound Americans together in
                    the 1890's than what split them apart. These centripetal forces have been neglected, and a
                    good part of the value of these books lies in their having dealt with them.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Walter T. K. Nugent
         
         
            
               George W. Norris: The Making of a Progressive, 1861-1912. By Richard Lowitt. (
                        Syracuse
                    , N.Y.: 
                        Syracuse
                     University Press, 1963. Pp. xiv, 341. Illustrations, notes, index. $7.95.)
            This is the first volume of a two-volume biographical study of George W. Norris, the 
                        Nebraska
                     Progressive. It covers his career from his 
                        Ohio
                     boyhood until the election of 1912, when he entered the Senate after a stormy and
                    distinguished career in the House. The author, a member of the Department of History at 
                        Connecticut
                     College, has the  companion volume in preparation,
                    but this one can be read as a self-contained biographical unit, since Norris' career
                    conveniently divides into these related halves. It is the first thorough study of
                    Norris—though Richard L. Neuberger and S. B. Kahn (1937) and Alfred Lief (1939) provide
                    valuable interpretations—for it is the first to make intensive use of the Norris
                    manuscripts and of the numerous secondary studies of Progressivism and New Deal politics that have
                    appeared since his death in 1944. Norris' own Fighting Liberal, though an
                    invaluable document, is still a personal and partisan account. Professor Lowitt's study,
                    therefore, is to be welcomed and commended as a useful, informative addition to the historical
                    literature of Progressivism.
            Approximately a third of the book is devoted to Norris' boyhood and his early efforts to
                    establish himself as a lawyer and businessman in 
                        Nebraska
                    . This information is important in depicting the environment in which Norris'
                    political ideas developed and matured—in free-swinging, agarian country, where they
                    raised wheat and hell as the 
                        Kansas
                     farmers did corn, and where politics was unihibited and independent. Norris himself was
                    by no means an uncurried prairie radical of the Sockless Jerry Simpson stamp, but he began politics
                    just as the great Populist crusade was ending and inherited much of its fervor and independence.
                    Entering the House in 1903, he joined a band of so-called "insurgents" (which
                    included such midwestern dissidents as Edmond H. Madison and Victor Murdock of 
                        Kansas
                    , John M. Nelson of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and Charles A. Lindbergh of 
                        Minnesota
                    ) and became known as a self-reliant thinker who voted as he wished. Norris was an
                    incorrigible independent who happened to be a Republican but who had no qualms about disagreeing
                    with his party. Parties, he felt, robbed a man of his freedom; "I'd rather be
                    right than regular," he once said. He is one of the few influential politicians who
                    operated successfully outside the strict discipline of the American party system. He said that a
                    congressman "should be absolutely free to follow the dictates of conscience in every
                    official action" (p. 147), and he never deviated from this principle. This first volume of
                    his biography finds its climax in Norris' participation in the battle against Speaker
                    Joseph Cannon in 1910 that broke the apparatus of oligarchical party control and opened the way for
                    rearrangements of political strategies in congressional politics.
            As Lowitt points out, the central meaning of Norris' early career lies in the fact that he
                    was a key figure in one of the great shifts of political patterns in the early twentieth century:
                    the transformation of "insurgency" into "progressivism," the
                    translation of what was at first an issue of procedural liberalism into a substantive progressive
                    program. The House revolt was the opening phase of the Progressive movement that involved Theodore
                    Roosevelt, Robert M. La Follette, and eventually the whole liberal wing of American politics.
                    Norris, who played a great part in this revolt, served his apprenticeship in Progressivism during
                    these early years. Here the external pressures and internal growth that moved him from a parochial
                    rural legislator into a major national representative of the strengths and weaknesses of midwestern
                    politics are most evident. The factors that made George  Norris
                    into what Senator Arthur Capper of 
                        Kansas
                     called "a perambulating Declaration of Independence" can be seen
                    plainly in this volume.
            The author's portrait of Norris is careful, sound, and understanding. He neither simplifies
                    nor complicates his subject, essentially a direct, forthright, stubborn man who was perfectly aware
                    of the realities of the legislative process and who used that process and made no concessions to it.
                    This volume is a distinct contribution to American political history and, with the second volume,
                    should compose a significant one.
            
                    
                  
                            Michigan
                         State University
                
            Russel B. Nye
         
         
            
               The Origins of Teapot Dome: Progressives, Parties, and Petroleum, 1909-1921. By
                    J. Leonard Bates. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1963. Pp. viii, 278. Notes, illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $7.50.)
            The author at first set out to write a history of Teapot Dome, but concluded that the origins of that
                    famous scandal provided material enough for a book. The result is a chronicle of a struggle
                    centering in the years of Woodrow Wilson's presidency, between individuals who wanted to
                    conserve oil resources of western states and those who wanted to give oilmen freedom to develop
                    lands retained by the federal government. In the van of the conservationists were eastern
                    Progressives who thought they were continuing Theodore Roosevelt's battle against predatory
                    businessmen wishing to take for themselves a national heritage. Conservationists received important
                    support from the Navy, then converting its ships to oil. The Navy saw a danger of exhausting the
                    nation's oil resources, so joined Progressives in seeking to close government oil land to
                    private exploitation. Leading advocates of opening government land were oil companies, but equally
                    vocal were western members of Congress, who apparently represented a widely held opinion that
                    eastern conservationists were thwarting western growth.
            Despite western determination, and the sympathy of Woodrow Wilson for the western view,
                    conservationists and the Navy for several years managed to prevent a large encroachment on
                    government oil land. They received help from the World War, when conserving the Navy's oil
                    reserves became a patriotic necessity. But in 1920 came a law which opened the way for leasing
                    government land. The author shows how the leasing of oil land influenced national politics, and
                    points out that President Wilson's sympathy for the western view may have returned him to
                    the White House in 1916. Bates demonstrates that oil also had a part in the 1920 national election.
            Resting upon impressive research in manuscript materials, this book takes up a subject which occupied
                    much attention in 1909-1921. Yet it appears that Bates kept too closely to his notes and found it
                    painful to part with any piece of information. The result is a tedious book which dwells upon
                    seemingly endless maneuvers. The book will find few readers, even among people interested in
                    Progressivism and  the Wilson administration. If the author had
                    followed his original instinct and compressed the origins of Teapot Dome into seventy-five or a
                    hundred pages, he would have made a larger contribution.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            John E. Wiltz
         
         
            
               Frank B. Kellogg; Henry L. Stimson. By Robert H. Ferrell. The
                        American Secretaries of State and Their Diplomacy, Volume XI. Edited by Robert H. Ferrell;
                    Samuel Flagg Bemis, Advisory Editor. (
                        New York
                    : Cooper Square Publishers, Inc., 1963. Pp. ix, 360. Illustrations, notes,
                    bibliographical essay, index. $7.50.)
            
               Henry L. Stimson and 
                            Japan
                        , 1931-33. By Armin Rappaport. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1963. Pp. viii, 238. Notes, appendix, note on sources, index. $6.00.)
            The office of secretary of state has stirred a great deal of scholarly interest in recent years. One
                    of the pleasant results of this interest is the modernization of Samuel Flagg Bemis' Secretaries of State and Their Diplomacy after a lapse of forty years and the
                    terms of eight secretaries of state.
            This volume on Kellogg and Stimson, the first in the new series, is written by Indiana
                    University's able diplomatic historian, Robert Ferrell. Ferrell, with assistance from
                    Professor Bemis, will edit the remaining five volumes of the new series bringing it down to 1961. If
                    the older series had a fault, it was the occasional unbridled enthusiasm of a personal friend for
                    the secretary whose deeds he chronicled. Happily this is not the case with Kellogg and Stimson. All
                    students of American diplomatic history are familiar with Ferrell's excellent and extensive
                    research in the period covered by these men's tenure in office. This familiarity with the
                    period is everywhere evident in skillful presentation of the problems of the time and judicious
                    appraisal of the work of these two secretaries in meeting the issues.
            In each of these studies, and in the succeeding volumes, a brief introduction and conclusion sets the
                    detailed discussion of the secretaries' work in context. About 140 pages of text for each
                    man in this volume affords opportunity to cover his four-year career adequately. Emphasis is given
                    to the career as a whole; the temptation to go into great detail on some matters and slight others
                    is avoided. The text is clear and readable, well documented, and concluded with a splendid
                    bibliographical essay that in its completeness goes far beyond the demands of duty.
            As for the men under discussion, there has been a general agreement that Kellogg was a sincere and
                    busy but not brilliant or effective secretary working at a time when Americans were not interested
                    in foreign affairs. Interestingly, Ferrell's studies have led him to disagree with this
                    appraisal and to describe Kellogg as a "worthy successor to Charles Evans Hughes, in some
                    ways perhaps a more able individual than his well-known successor, Stimson" (p. 129).
            Stimson, unlike Kellogg, has provoked a great deal of conflicting opinion as to his success. In this
                    respect Ferrell's treatment and that  of Armin
                    Rappaport in Henry L. Stimson and 
                            Japan
                        , 1931-33 perpetuate rather than settle the controversy. The two authors
                    approach their subjects differently. Ferrell is concerned with Stimson's whole career with
                    emphasis on his individual contributions as secretary of state. Rappaport's study deals in
                    great detail with the Manchurian Incident, its impact on the 
                        United States
                     and Great Britain, and the failure of the League of Nations and other collective
                    agencies for peace to meet the challenge of aggression. These events cannot be recounted without
                    considering Stimson, but the events rather than the man seem to be the pivotal theme of the book.
                    For example, the first chapter, about one eighth of the book, makes no mention of Stimson at all.
            Nevertheless, Stimson is not a man to be ignored, and Rappaport concludes after a thorough study of
                    documentary sources that Stimson failed in attempting to meet Japanese aggression. "He
                    elected to give vent to his ire by brandishing the pistol, which, unhappily, was not
                    loaded" (p. 203). Thus he broke the cardinal maxim of the statesman.
            Ferrell, for his part, sees Stimson as well aware of the limitations imposed by a "country
                    unwilling to act toward the rising aggressors with anything other than words, and Stimson had done
                    his best with words, words, words" (p. 278).
            Rappaport's exhaustive study of primary source material is less useful to scholars than it
                    might be by reason of an inadequate index and the omission of any bibliography on the many secondary
                    works touching on this topic—faults probably chargeable to the publisher rather than the
                    author. More effort to relate in footnotes the author's findings and opinions with those of
                    other scholars who have written on this problem would aid students who are not already familiar with
                    the literature of the subject.
            Both volumes meet a high standard of scholarship; both are well organized and clearly presented. As
                    such they will prove most useful to students of diplomatic history.
            
                    University of 
                            Georgia
                        
               
                
            J. Chal Vinson
         
         
            
               The Transportation Frontier: Trans-
                            Mississippi
                         West, 1865-1890. By Oscar Osburn Winther. [Histories of the
                        American Frontier. Edited by Ray Allen Billington.] (
                        New York
                    : Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1964. Pp. xiv, 224. Illustrations, maps, notes,
                    bibliographical notes, index. $4.50.)
            This is a well-balanced, fact-filled, and thoughtful book which digests in lucid and readable fashion
                    information that has hitherto been available only in articles or monographs. Winther's
                    primary contribution is his intelligent assembling of these details into a cohesive, logical pattern
                    that reveals conclusively the crucial impact of transportation on the final transformation of the Trans-
                        Mississippi
                     West from a trackless wilderness into an inter-connected, albeit sprawling, community.
                    Hardly less commendable is the fact that the book loses not one whit of the flavor of the West with
                    all its contrasts of high tragedy, low comedy, and irrepressible vigor.
            
            
               The Transportation Frontier is part of the Histories of the American
                        Frontier series, but this volume is, as series editor Billington promises, a complete story
                    in itself. Winther deals with all forms of transport: wagons carrying both freight and people,
                    steamboats, railways, bicycles, and autos. In doing so, he corrects many an inaccurate notion about
                    western transportation. He shows, for example, that wagon freighting and travel by stage lingered
                    well into the current century; that steamboats plied not only the great rivers but countless
                    tributary streams as well, and that cyclists, rather than motorists, put underway the first
                    sustained movement for good roads. Of course, during the period discussed the railways in increasing
                    tempo took over the bulk of the West's transportation job. Winther tells this familiar tale
                    well, spicing it with aptly-chosen descriptions of just what it was like to finance, build,
                    maintain, and improve an ever-growing network where the extremes of physiography and the perils
                    first of Indians and then of gunmen made railroading a matter of high adventure. Throughout the
                    volume the author systematically pauses to describe how the growth of transport determined the fate
                    of the great cities of the West. He does far less in tracing the impact of transportation on the
                    regional economies involved.
            In the light of the many positive contributions of this compact volume, its shortcomings are few and
                    relatively minor. The proposition stated on page 7 that the Civil War failed "to curb
                    significantly the westward march" is not convincingly supported, and indeed is virtually
                    (and, in this reviewer's opinion, properly) contradicted on pages 15, 96, 105-06. Winther
                    is a bit wobbly in describing the well-known story of the federal land grants (and land-grant rates)
                    on pages 99-103, and gives "over 150 million acres" rather than the correct 131
                    million as the net acreage involved. The 
                        Burlington
                     did not reach Omaha in 1868 (p. 185); and, of course, the Hannibal and 
                        St. Joseph
                     became a part of the 
                  Chicago,
                            Burlington
                & 
                        Quincy
                    , not the "
                        Burlington
                     and 
                        Quincy
                    " as appears on pages 93, 212, and 216. Although most direct quotations are
                    clearly documented in individual footnotes, there are numerous "bundle footnotes"
                    (for example, nos. 3 and 4, p. 165 and no. 23, p. 168) which needlessly leave the reader guessing.
                    In view of the thorough and more recent works of Frederick Merk, Solon J. Buck, and I. Leo Sharfman
                    (to mention only three) on the "grievances against the railroads" one may well
                    question whether William Larrabee's dated and partial The Railroad
                    Question (1893) is "one of the better accounts" (p. 183). And, as Wallace
                    Farnham has convincingly demonstrated, Grenville Dodge's "How we Built the Union
                    Pacific Railway" must be used with extreme caution. The map of stage coach routes on pages
                    62-63 hardly illustrates adequately what the text describes, while the railroad map on pages 118-19
                    suffers from being labelled "circa 1890," is difficult to read, and is downright
                    misleading in several details. Although the Bibliographical Notes are extremely helpful as to
                    articles and archival materials, a great many solid monographs are omitted. The index is adequate
                    for specific names and places but almost wholly lacking in functional headings.
            
            These shortcomings, however, may be casualties of speed and space. If this handy book goes into later
                    editions, as it richly deserves to do, such details can and should be corrected. Winther has
                    certainly done a solid and much-needed piece of work; his book is without question a
                    "must" for the topic and period it covers.
            
                    The University of Western 
                            Ontario
                        
               
                
            Richard C. Overton
         
         
            
               The Negro in North Cavolina, 1876-1894. By Frenise A. Logan. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : The University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1964. Pp. ix, 244. Notes, bibliography, index. $6.00.)
            A good friend who is a scholar of southern history reminded this reviewer that a good, all-round
                    history of the South would not be written until the pieces of southern history were completed. This
                    book treats one of the neglected phases of the pieces in one state—the so-called twilight
                    zone between the return of "home rule" and the disfranchisement or general
                    repression of the Negro. It covers three segments of Negro life: politics, economics, and social
                    environment. In retrospect the author briefly introduces the reader to Negro life under slavery.
            Under politics, the Negro's role in the two dominant parties in the state are considered.
                    The Negro was a victim of the political tricks and chicanery of the whites as well as the
                    ostracisism and distrust of his own people. His votes were purchased, his choice of party
                    participation was limited, and the offices allotted to him were menial. Yet a great number of those
                    who entered politics had normal school or college training and ranked well in the professions of
                    teaching, preaching, and the law. Some were self-educated. They served on important committees in
                    both houses of the 
                        North Carolina
                     legislature and when their terms in the legislature ended they filled responsible local
                    positions ranging from justice of the peace to solicitor of judicial districts.
            The Negro was kept out of the main stream of the economic life of the state by hostile tenancy laws,
                    low wages, designated "Negro jobs," and inadequate educational preparation. He
                    attempted to better his condition by joining labor organizations and by founding normal schools and
                    colleges, professional societies, newspapers, and, in a state of despair, a "Back to
                    Africa" movement. Through the aid of the 
                        North Carolina
                     Emigration Association Negroes moved into Indiana, 
                        Kansas
                    , and several other midwestern states over the protest of whites in those states.
            The Negro's social status in 
                        North Carolina
                     was determined by his education and by his business and professional standing, with
                    whites and Negroes of the upper classes freely attending social functions together. On the lower
                    social level the church, secular, and other activities—-picnics, excursions,
                    celebrations—were segregated. It is interesting to note that the 
                        North Carolina
                     Supreme Court was the only real protector of the suffrage and education rights of
                    Negroes.
            
            The book seemed to this reviewer a little shallow in some areas and too detailed in others. However,
                    the author has done a tremendous amount of research and made a critical analysis of that research.
                    His approach to the problem of this period is somewhat unusual and refreshing. The book is well
                    written, very easy to read, and it is objective throughout.
            
                    
                  
                            Alabama
                         State College
                
            Joseph M. Brittain
         
         
            
               The Idea of the South: Pursuit of a Central Theme. Edited by Frank E. Vandiver.
                        Rice University Semicentennial Publications. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, for William Marsh Rice University, 1964. Pp. xi, 82. Notes. $3.95.)
            In this thin little volume seven southern scholars—four historians, a librarian, a
                    literary critic, and a publisher—attempt, as so many others have done, to get at the
                    central theme or main idea of the South. Their efforts are little if any more
                    satisfying than those of their predecessors. Six of the authors attempt to explain the South from
                    some one major point of departure but they all come back to the same oft-repeated explanation:
                    slavery in the Old and race relations in the New South.
            Frank E. Vandiver emphasizes violence as a distinctive characteristic of the South, and traces it
                    through the code duello, slavery, war, politics, and even religion. He characterizes the southern
                    approach to all these problems as an offensive-defense mechanism. But he comes in the end to slavery
                    and its modern counterpart, racism, as the core of southern identity. T. Harry Williams rides a
                    political horse but he begins with slavery and ends with the race issue. He finds in one southern
                    politico—Huey Long—a man who approached the problem with realism and succeeded
                    in bringing good roads, education, public health, and social services to the people of his state.
                    Walter Prescott Webb's essay adds little to what he had already contributed to an
                    understanding of the contemporary South. He paints a rosy picture of the advantages of the
                    South—land, water, minerals—and bright prospects for the future. But he finds
                    that obsession with race is a major deterrent in the fulfillment of the promise. Richard B. Harwell
                    finds the Civil War an anchor which southern writers have been unable to shake off. He points with
                    pride, however, to the efforts of numerous recent writers—historians, novelists,
                    journalists, sociologists, and spokesmen of a New South of racial
                    equality—who are moving into the main stream of Americanism. He calls on all Southerners
                    to forget the Civil War and become Americans as well as Southerners. Lewis D. Rubin, Jr., also sees
                    slavery and the Civil War as the great divide which the South had largely crossed by 1870 except in
                    race relations. Industrial development and educational advance enabled southern literary figures to
                    gain world-wide recognition. But Rubin finds race the key issue. Failure of whites to treat the
                    Negro as an equal has forced southern writers to compromise with their integrity. Hugh B. Patterson
                    sees hope for southern progress in industry, education, housing, and  health. But race and segregation slow down progress, and leadership is
                    required to break down the barrier. All these writers have unity in that they recognize slavery,
                    race, and economic backwardness as major characteristics of the South.
            George B. Tindall takes a different and new approcah to the problem of understanding the South. He
                    does not attempt to analyze the South himself but rather suggests an analysis of the various myths
                    that have been developed to explain the South. He analyzes briefly such topics as the myth of the
                    aristocratic planter society based upon slavery, the South of the poor white trash, the Agrarian
                    South, the New South Creed, and suggests at least a dozen others. His thesis is that by a study of
                    the origin, development, and acceptance of these myths the historian can better understand what the
                    South has been and still is. It remains to be seen whether his thesis is correct or not, but at
                    least it is a new and original approach to southern history.
            
                    University of 
                            North Carolina
                        
               
                
            Fletcher M. Green
         
         
            
               From the New Freedom to the New Frontier: A History of the 
                            United States
                         from 1912 to the Present. By André Maurois. Translated by Patrick
                    O'Brien. (
                        New York
                    : David McKay Company, Inc., 1963. Pp. xii, 365. Bibliography, index. $5.00.)
            André Maurois has long been in the forefront of contemporary French interpreters of the 
                        United States
                    . A frequent visitor to these shores, he has had a lifelong interest in American history
                    and institutions and has written several books interpreting America for the European public. In the
                    present work Maurois has written a warm and sympathetic history of the 
                        United States
                     from 1912 to 1960. Designed for the average European reader rather than the scholar,
                    this work provides a clear narrative of American history, with many apt quotations, and several
                    sharply etched vignettes of American leaders. The author's own personal recollections and
                    his conversations with prominent Americans add color and immediacy to the narrative of events.
            The author modestly claims to have made no contribution to scholarship, and the factual narrative is
                    based on standard secondary works. But many Americans will be interested in the image of their
                    country as reflected by the mind of this civilized Frenchman. For the convenience of such readers
                    the bulk of the interpretative comments are contained in three insightful chapters surveying the
                    state of America in 1912, 1939, and 1960. The 
                        United States
                     is, in Maurois' view, above all an idealistic nation. Three sets of ideas have
                    shaped American history: "moral puritanism," enlightenment liberalism, and faith
                    in progress. American history represents the interaction between these ideas and the hard facts of
                    twentieth-century life. Idealism, in Plato's sense, accounts for both the strength and
                    weakness of American foreign policy. Maurois finds that Americans have concentrated on essences such
                    as liberty and democracy to the occasional neglect of concrete realities. In domestic policy
                    American ideals were challenged by the power of big business, leading to social injustice. Despite
                    the rigidities  of an eighteenth-century constitution, Americans
                    have met these problems by a peaceful revolution, evolving a pluralistic society with six
                    independent power centers: the White House; the Congress; the managerial elite; the Pentagon; the
                    opinion makers; and the labor unions.
            The author's intention was to present the history of the 
                        United States
                     "with clarity, with affection, and without prejudice" (p. vi). He has
                    admirably fulfilled the first two goals but not the third, for Maurois is biased in favor of
                    America. He stresses idealistic and generous actions from the fourteen points to the Marshall Plan,
                    while ignoring or sliding over some less happy facts. His heroes are democratic leaders in the
                    tradition of Theodore Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson, and Franklin D. Roosevelt. He is evasive and
                    unconvincing with less enlightened leaders. His attempted explanation of John Foster
                    Dulles' policies in the Suez crisis is less than satisfying. Maurois is excessively
                    optimistic in viewing the successes of American domestic policy. It is questionable whether American
                    giant corporations have become "private public services" to the extent that there
                    is "scarcely any real difference" between them and Renault, a state-owned
                    enterprise (pp. 328-29). Many Americans will doubt whether a 6 per cent rate of unemployment may be
                    dismissed as merely normal for "so great a body of workers" (p. 329). It is
                    perhaps significant that Maurois, who has taught at several American universities, is rather
                    uncharacteristically pessimistic about American education, the aspect of American culture with which
                    he is most intimately familiar.
            This is a first-rate popularization; it should provide a healthy corrective to the anti-Americanism
                    so rife in the author's own country. One can only hope that it will be widely read there.
            
                    Purdue University
                
            Edwin Layton
         
         
            
               The Historical Revolution: English Historical Writing and Thought, 1580-1640. By
                    F. Smith Fussner. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 1962. Pp. xxiv, 343. Notes, index. $7.50.)
            The thesis of Professor Fussner's book is that the period from 1580 to 1640 in 
                        England
                     represented nothing less than a "historiographical revolution" which
                    "helped to create those historical attitudes and questionings that we recognize as our
                    own" (p. xxii). Fussner has chosen the 1580's as the beginning of significant
                    changes in English historical writing because in that decade "more adequate facilities for
                    research became available, and the antiquaries began to question their medieval
                    authorities" (p. 300). For example, many of the scholars who published in the
                    post-restoration period worked long hours in the library assembled by Sir Robert Cotton in the first
                    half of the sixteenth century. Or again, the Elizabethan Society of Antiquaries was founded in order
                    to answer many of the "what and when" questions which were so important for the
                    "why and how" questions asked by the Society of Antiquaries founded in Queen
                    Anne's reign. The most obvious characteristic in this revolution in historical writing,
                    according to Fussner, was  "the proliferation of new
                    types of history" (p. 302). Therefore, the heart of this study is a series of five chapters
                    carefully delineating the diverse interpretations of five distinguished men.
            Sir Walter Raleigh wrote a universal history of the world—partly on the basis of Biblical
                    authority—within the framework of the Christian doctrine of providence. John Stow wrote a
                    local history of 
                        London
                     after a personal survey to discover what actually happened. William Camden wrote a
                    national history of contemporary 
                        England
                     as a political narrative of Elizabethan statecraft and diplomacy. John Selden wrote an
                    ecclesiastical history of tithes with the utilitarian hope of making the past answer the problems of
                    the present. Sir Francis Bacon wrote a political history of Henry VII—which owes more to
                    Machiavelli and Guicciardini than it does to a rigorous application of the scientific
                    method—and some philosophical treatises on the nature of history as memory or the recall
                    of facts on the one hand and imagination or the use of judgment on the other—an
                    inconsistency which Fussner skillfully shows was never resolved by Bacon.
            Fussner states that "there can be no question that what especially distinguishes sixteenth-
                    and seventeenth-century historiography is a new attitude towards historical evidence and
                    proof" (p. xix). Furthermore, he accounted for this "new attitude" by
                    making it a part of the larger "intellectual revolution" of the seventeenth
                    century whereby scholastic forms were replaced by a new scientific ideal. The personal survey of
                    Stow and the utilitarian view of Seldon do indeed anticipate the future of historical method, but
                    Bacon's notion of history as memory or Raleigh's as divine revelation had much in
                    common with the medieval scholastics. Despite the fine advances that were made in philology and the
                    use of original sources, the sometimes fumbling efforts of the Elizabethan antiquaries, or even of
                    Bacon himself, in obtaining objectivity in the handling of historical evidence and proof with
                    respect to the "what and when" questions make one wonder if the transformation
                    from the medieval chronicle to modern history took place all that quickly. David C. Douglas (English Scholars, 1660-1730) and Thomas P. Peardon (The Transition
                        in English Historical Writing, 1760-1830) indicate that the full impact of the
                    "intellectual revolution" was felt later.
            What some of Fussner's historical writers do seem to share, as distinct from those of the
                    late Stuart period, is a deep involvement in the political issues of their time. Raleigh was a
                    courtier until his long imprisonment by James I enabled him to write his history; Bacon was Lord
                    Chancellor under James I until his conviction for bribery allowed him time to write history and
                    philosophy; Selden was a common lawyer who met disfavor with James I for writing history;
                    Cotton's library became the meeting place for historians and members of Parliament in the
                    1620's. The quarrel between King and Parliament caused historians to look to history for
                    the answers to their problems. Not until the issues of the English Revolution were resolved did the
                    writing of history become a full-time occupation and the boundaries between history and the other
                    disciplines become clearly drawn.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Leo F. Solt
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               The Colonial Wars, 1689-1762. By Howard H. Peckham. The 
                            Chicago
                         History of American Civilization Series. Edited by Daniel J. Boorstin. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1964. Pp. ix, 239. Illustrations, maps, suggested readings, index.
                    $5.00.) Howard Peckham here offers a very readable account of the Anglo-French struggle
                    for supremacy on the American continent. His modest volume will be useful to students and general
                    readers. The nature of Indian warfare and of the fighting between European and colonial rivals is
                    well described. Although military history is emphasized, considerable attention is given to both
                    colonial expansion and diplomacy. Peckham's writing reveals a high regard for the earlier
                    findings of Francis Parkman, and he follows the Parkman pattern of providing much interpretation as
                    well as a basic factual framework.
            
               George Mercer of the 
                            Ohio
                         Company: A Study in Frustration. By Alfred Procter James. (
                        Pittsburgh
                    : University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Press, 1963. Pp. 96. Notes, index. Paperbound, $2.95.) This booklet offers a
                    concise bibliographical sketch of George Mercer (1733-1784), perhaps best known as a 
                        London
                     agent of the 
                        Ohio
                     Land Company during the 1760's. It is supplemental to the George
                        Mercer Papers (1954), edited by Lois Mulkearn, and The 
                            Ohio
                         Company: Its Inner History (1959), which James also wrote. The author gives
                    attention to Mercer's activities and difficulties in 
                        England
                     as well as to his early life and his services to the 
                        Ohio
                     Land Company. Professor James expounds the thesis that Mercer's becoming a
                    distributor of stamps under the Stamp Act of 1765 and his subsequent removal to 
                        England
                     for most of the last two decades of his life resulted in frustration which eventually
                    led to his mental and physical collapse.
            
               Dawn Like Thunder: The Barbary Wars and the Birth of the U.S. Navy. By Glenn
                    Tucker. Maps by Dorothy Thomas Tucker. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : The Bobbs-Merrill Company, Inc., 1963. Pp. 487. Maps, bibliography, index.
                    $6.95.) Tucker, known to many readers of the Indiana Magazine of
                    History for his books on the Civil War and a biography of Tecumseh, here tells the story of the
                    naval warfare of the 
                        United States
                     against pirates in the Mediterranean during the early nineteenth century. This is a
                    detailed account of American suffering and losses at the hands of the pirates, American efforts via
                    both diplomacy and naval warfare to eliminate piracy, and the ultimate end of piracy soon after the
                    conclusion of the War of 1812. Tucker presents in detail the heroes and battles that "gave
                    the 
                        United States
                     a Navy, and the Navy a glorious beginning" (p. 465).
            
            
               Index to the Benjamin Harrison Papers. The Library of Congress. Presidents' Papers Index Series. (Washington: 
                        United States
                     Government Printing Office, 1964. Pp. x, 333. Notes, appendixes. Paperbound,
                    $2.60.) Personal papers of twenty-three of the presidents are in the Library of Congress.
                    In a project begun in 1958 these papers are being microfilmed and indexed. The microfilm of the
                    Benjamin Harrison Papers includes most of the items in this collection and is on 151 reels, all of
                    which are available on interlibrary loan or for purchase from the Library of Congress. The index for
                    the Benjamin Harrison Papers is the tenth volume to appear in the series. It is largely a detail
                    name index, listing writers and receivers of letters as well as authors of related papers. Not
                    listed are Benjamin Harrison items in other collections at the Library of Congress. The volume of
                    the Harrison Papers is suggested by the fact that this index, despite its small type and two columns
                    per page, runs over three hundred pages. The Introduction offers interesting information concerning
                    the collection and preservation of the papers; an Appendix describes their organization and general
                    contents. Readers of the Indiana Magazine of History will recall that the Reverend
                    Harry J. Sievers, S. J., has completed two volumes of his proposed multi-volume biography of
                    Benjamin Harrison.
            
               Gunmakers of Indiana. Limited edition. By Albert W. Lindert. Drawings by James A.
                    Wuellner. (Homewood, Ill.: The Author, 1964. Pp. iii, 284. Illustrations, map, tables. Paperbound.)
                    Lindert's book is divided into three main parts. The first part presents stories and
                    anecdotes of early Indiana history in which use of guns was important; the second lists individual
                    Indiana gunmakers, almost all of whom apparently worked during the 1800's, and offers
                    biographical data concerning them; and the third gives descriptive material about the making of guns
                    in Indiana. Parts II and III are much the more useful sections; Part I is unfortunately marred by
                    errors and distortions. Lindert has references to around 360 persons whom he regards as Indiana
                    gunmakers. In 1860, according to the 
                        United States
                     Census, Indiana ranked fourth among the states in the number of its gunmakers, having
                    268 as against 606 for Pennsylvania, 503 for 
                        Ohio
                    , and 602 for 
                        New York
                     (p. 2). Lindert is clearly aware that his information is not complete.
            
               Conestoga Wagon, 1750-1850: Freight Carrier for 100 Years of America's Westward
                        Expansion. By George Shumway, Edward Durell, and Howard C. Frey. (York, Pa.: Early American
                    Industries Association, Inc., and George Shumway, 1964. Pp. xi, 206. Illustrations, maps, tables,
                    diagrams, bibliography, index. $12.60.) This volume has considerable information about
                    the origin, development, building, use, significance, and decline of the Conestoga wagon. Its
                    readable style combined with numerous and interesting pictures make it a joy to  peruse. Though he admits that the exact birthplace and date of the
                    Conestoga wagon remain uncertain, Shumway concludes in one of the chapters for which he is
                    responsible that it was developed in southeastern Pennsylvania during the first half of the
                    eighteenth century (pp. 14-15). Use of Conestogas for long-distance wagon freighting reached its
                    peak between 1820 and 1840. The advent of the railroads brought to a close long-distance hauling in
                    Conestogas; wagon freighting continued, but the covered wagons of the West were not Conestogas (pp.
                    1-2). This delightful and informative volume will be attractive to the general reader. It is,
                    moreover, quite suitable for use in teaching American history to junior and senior high school
                    students.
            
               Tales of the Frontier: From Lewis and Clark to the Last Roundup. Selected and
                    retold by Everett Dick. (Lincoln: University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1963. Pp. 390. Maps, sources. $6.00.) For several decades Professor
                    Dick has been a student and author of books and articles concerning the frontier or westward
                    movement in the 
                        United States
                    . Here he presents a smorgasbord of stories and tales designed to picture conditions on
                    the frontier as it swept westward across the continent. Some of these accounts are old classics;
                    others are less well known. Dick has recast them all in language suited to the parlor, but in doing
                    so he has lost much of the flavor of the frontier This is, however, an interesting collection, and
                    if it is used wisely it can help to illustrate important aspects and episodes of the western
                    movement.
            
               The Southern Frontier. By John Anthony Caruso. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : The Bobbs-Merrill Company, Inc., 1963. Pp. 448. Maps, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $6.60.) This volume is similar in format, scope, and style to Professor Caruso's
                        The Appalachian Frontier and The Great Lakes Frontier, which
                    have been reviewed previously in this magazine. The first several chapters of The
                        Southern Frontier emphasize the early efforts of the Spanish in 
                        Florida
                    , but these and succeeding chapters also give a general view of the development of what
                    is essentially the Lower South from the advent of the Spanish through the early nineteenth century.
                    The roles of the French and British are touched upon.
            
               Black Utopia: Negro Communal Experiments in America. By William H. Pease and Jane
                    H. Pease. (
                        Madison
                    : The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1963. Pp. ix, 204. Notes, bibliography, index. $4.00.) The authors discuss
                    various Negro communal experiments in the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                     in the decades immediately preceding the Civil War. The background, motivation,
                    leadership, difficulties, and results of these utopian experiments are considered. According to the
                    authors, the lasting results have been inconsequential. The role of  discrimination and segregation in causing the failure of Negro communal
                    societies is perhaps overstressed. After all, such societies were generally short-lived and their
                    successes and effects quite limited, no matter who sponsored them.
            
               Galena, Grant, and the Fortunes of War: A History of Galena, 
                            Illinois
                        , During the Civil War. By Kenneth N. Owens. (
                        DeKalb
                    : Northern 
                        Illinois
                     University, in cooperation with the Galena Historical Society, 1963. Pp. v, 67.
                    Illustrations, essay on sources. Paperbound, free.) This brief booklet offers material about Galena
                    and Grant's association with that town. It especially provides information about the impact
                    of the Civil War and includes items of particular interest to students of General Grant.
            
               Nancy Hanks: The Destined Mother of a President. By Adin Baber. Hanks
                        Family Historical Series, 111. (
                        Kansas
                    , Ill.: The Author, 1963. Pp. xx, 174. Frontispiece, notes, bibliographical note,
                    appendix, index. $16.00.) This volume claims to be a definitive study of the ancestry of
                    Nancy Hanks Lincoln. According to Baber, the American forbears of Nancy Hanks may have arrived at
                    Jarnestown, 
                        Virginia
                    , during its early settlement. The Nancy Hanks family tree is traced from the colonial
                    era and numerous of her brothers, sisters, and other relatives are identified. Regarding his
                    conclusions about the genealogy of Nancy Hanks, Baber states: "There are no missing parts
                    of the evidence; it adduces alike essential to the conclusive whole; no conflicting clues nor
                    clauses in one part, nor in all—the whole must stand" (p. 114). It is probable,
                    however, that not all genealogists and historians will concur in some of Baber's
                    conclusions.
            
               Fettered Freedom: Civil Liberties and the Slavery Controversy, 1830-1860. By Russel
                    B. Nye. ([East Lansing]: 
                        Michigan
                     State University Press, 1963. Pp. xii, 353. Notes, bibliography, index.
                    $6.50.) This volume, according to the publisher's blurb and the
                    author's introduction, is a revised edition of the book which initially appeared in 1948.
                    Yet, in the same statement, the author writes that when requested to prepare a new preface, he
                    found, "curiously enough, that the original version—now fifteen years
                    old—was still exactly pertinent, and that there seemed to be no reason to change
                    it." When is a revision not a revision? At any rate, the subject matter of this
                    "revision" is well indicated by the title.
            
               Buying the Wind: Regional Folklore in the 
                            United States
                        . By Richard M. Dorson. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1964. Pp. xvii, 673. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, indexes.
                    $7.95.) This is a collection of oral folklore, or texts, for various regions and
                    population  groups within the 
                        United States
                    . Its several divisions concern 
                        Maine
                     Down-Easters, Pennsylvania Dutchmen, Southern Mountaineers, 
                        Louisiana
                     Cajuns, 
                        Illinois
                     Egyptians, Southwest Mexicans, and 
                        Utah
                     Mormons. An introduction of twenty pages and a running commentary afford helpful
                    background information and explanation. Professor Dorson regards this volume as a supplement to his
                        American Folklore (1959).
            
               Religion and Freedom in the Modern World. By Herbert J. Muller, (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1963. Pp. vii, 129. Notes. $3.95.) This volume is composed of a
                    series of lectures which Professor Muller gave at the Frank L. Weil Institute for Studies in
                    Religion and the Humanities at 
                        Cincinnati
                    . The lectures were an outgrowth of the author's series on the history of
                    freedom, two volumes of which have already appeared. This concise book serves as an introduction to
                    Muller's basic views on the status and role of religion—principally
                    Christianity—as it relates to the development of freedom in the modern world. Muller
                    concludes that the growth of freedom has been closely linked with but not dependent upon the growth
                    of religion.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
