
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 29, Issue 3, pages 171-267. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:29+issue:3+year:1933&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            The First National Pastime in the Middle West1
            
            By THEODORE G. GRONERT
            
            The newspaper of the fifties was not an imposing sheet. There was no photographic
                    section; no comic strip; no large headlines. The section that many of us turn to
                    first was conspicuous by its absence—the sporting section did not
                    exist. The reader in search of entertainment might amuse himself by counting up
                    the many ailments he was likely to have that were especially responsive to a
                    dose of Doe's Elixer or Roe's Little Liver Pills. If he
                    wished to rouse his competitive spirit he might try his hand at adding to the
                    expletives already used by the editor in his diatribes on
                    "Woman's Rights." He might even while away a
                    leaden-footed hour by writing a long letter dealing with the general depravity
                    of the younger generation, for the writing of such letters was the great indoor
                    sport of the period, and to be assured publication one need only sign his
                    epistle Scipio, Cato or Publius. Such
                    classical anonymity was prima facie evidence of erudition. Or he might even
                    write a verse, touched with tragic melancholy, with here and there a suggestion
                    of the essential frailty of man, and have more than an even chance to see it in
                    print in an early issue.
            Occasionally ambitious amateurs, lacking the sporting instinct took unfair
                    advantage of rivals and editors by writing in the manner of Poe, thus taking no
                    chance on being turned down. Imitations of The Raven won more
                    free space than has ever been surrendered by a flattered columnist of the
                    twentieth century. Gradually however from out the welter of odes, patent
                    medicine advertisements, foreign dispatches and domestic intelligence, appeared
                    a new set of items. Let the New 
                  
                     1 This paper was read at one of the sessions of
                            the annual Indiana History Conference, which was held at the Claypool
                            Hotel in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , December 9-10, 1932.
               
                     York Herald of 1857 speak
                    for itself. Type much larger than the usual modest headline marshalled forth the
                    following announcement: 
                        PARADE OF CITIZEN VOLUNTEERS GRAND TOURNOUT OF THE TARGET COMPANIES 6000
                            VOLUNTEERS IN THE PROCESSION—A GALA DAY AMONG THE
                            TARGET-SHOOTERS. REVIEW OF THE CITIZEN VOLUNTEERS BY THE MAYOR AND
                            COMMON COUNCIL….2
                  
                    
                
            In the case of the 
                        New York
                     papers some of the interest displayed was due to the fact that the
                    volunteer companies in some instances represented rival political groups and the
                    papers were naturally engaged in playing up their pet companies. The basic
                    reason for the development of the volunteer company was not political however.
                    Rather it developed in answer to a demand among the youth of the land for a
                    recreation that would meet a social and a physical need. Some had recourse to
                    the volunteer fire department while still others, depending on racial affinity
                    joined a German Turnverein or an Irish Marching Club. In the long run however it
                    was the independent companies that met the need. Every daily paper of the period
                    gives evidence of their existence. The columns of the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune indicate that in the year 1857 there were at least two
                    score companies in 
                        Chicago
                     in various stages of organization. The Milwaukee Sentinel listed at least eight companies in the metropolis of 
                        Wisconsin
                     and a dozen other communities in the Badger state boasted of one or
                    more companies.
            These companies were not the old militia companies, but voluntary organizations
                    usually established independently of state control. If they did accept state
                    control, it was usually for the purpose of securing the use of state equipment.
                    The members elected their own officers, determined the cut and color of the
                    uniform, marched and countermarched as they pleased and generally behaved in a
                    highly picturesque and individualistic manner. And in their marchings and
                    counter-marchings they were quite disregardful of state boundaries. In fact the
                    most enthusiastic activity of any volunteer military company took form in
                    participation in an encampment or 
                  
                     2
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Herald, April 24, 1857. On this same day, the 
                                New York
                            
                            Tribune gave a half-column to the same subject under
                            the heading, "Parade of the Target
                        Co's."
               
                     celebration in a neighboring state.
            An Indiana company, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Guards, took part in such an inter-state gathering in 1857 on the
                    occasion of the dedication of Henry Clay's monument at
                            
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , on July 4,
                        1857.3 Five out-of-state companies attended this
                    celebration, including two from 
                        Cincinnati
                     and one each from 
                  St.
                        Louis, Baltimore
                and 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The 
                        Indianapolis
                     company contributed a fair share to the celebration. When the
                    invitation to the dedication was received, there was an immediate growth of
                    interest in drill and dress parade. This company secured new recruits,
                    especially when it was announced that the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     Railroad would give free transportation, and the Covington and 
                        Lexington
                     would charge a two-thirds fare.4 The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal notes with approval that the Guards had been recruited
                    to a force of thirty-eight strong and that Captain Morris had issued a stern
                    General Order for the expedition into 
                        Kentucky
                    . The members of the company were to behave as citizens and
                    soldiers, refrain from entering any saloon or refreshment stand where spirituous
                    liquors were sold, especially "while wearing the uniform of the
                    Company." In view of the convivial habits of the period this General
                    Order was not without its justification, but in spite of precautions there were
                    some casualties. When the company was entertained by the Guthrie Grays of 
                        Cincinnati
                     an accompanying journalist declares in covert phrase that
                    "several of them suffered severely. Two of them at least
                    fainted."
            But the general impression of editors and reporters was favorable. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal devoted four columns of a two-page paper to the
                    celebration to give its meed of praise to a gathering of the "military
                    gentlemen" where "the drums rolled in stern consonance with
                    the daring character of the heroes they heralded."5
                    The 
                        Lexington
                     editor not to be outdone, devoted half his space to a description
                    whose climax proclaimed: "The glittering armor, waving plumes and the
                    wonderful precision of the movements of the troops presented a scene of true
                    grandeur and one well-calculated to inspire enthusiasm and make the pulses
                        fly."6
            
            
               
                  3 G. W. Ranck, History of Lezeington, 
                                Kentucky
                            
                  , 377.
               
                  4
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, June 18, 1857.
               
                  5
                        Ibid, July 8, 1857.
               
                  6
                        
                            Lexington
                        
                        Observer and Reporter, July 8, 1857.
            
            
            The usual military item however was not concerned with grand tours and fraternal
                    visits, but dealt with humbler matters of local import. There were notices of
                    meetings for drill, elections of officers and of occasional dress parades, In
                    the fall and winter there were advertisements of "Grand Military
                    Soirees" where the reader was assured that, "All the grace and
                    beauty of our fair city was in attendance." In Indiana the 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     companies were addicted to the "Soiree" while
                    Captain Lew Wallace's 
                        Montgomery
                     Guards of 
                        Crawfordsville
                     were given to "stag suppers" where they served
                    "oysters and drink, cold water principally."7
            
            There is no little temptation to interpret the reporters statement, but it may
                    suffice to say here that only the Temperance Cadets uniformly toasted their
                    guests in water. Though the Temperance Cadets of 
                        Indianapolis
                     often took part in the maneuvers of the military they sustained
                    themselves solely with such "refreshments as their pure appetites
                    demanded and their rules permitted." Cynical reporters—they
                    were that way as early as 1857—waxed enthusiastic enough to declare
                    the parade of the 
                        Maine
                     law devotees "one of the prettiest sights we have seen in
                    many a day," but at this point, the cynic obtruded again to declare
                    that unfortunately the enrollment of the Cadets was small.8
            
            Despite his cynicism the reporter or editor was always welcomed by the officers
                    and privates of the volunteer companies, for they were not disregardful of the
                    value of publicity. If there was no newspaper representative enrolled in the
                    company, the editor was extended an invitation to attend excursions and other
                    celebrations as a guest of the company. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Guards had the services of a reporter or editor on all important
                    occasions, and other 
                        Indianapolis
                     organizations were also well served. The Guards were not above the
                    use of flattery in their appeal for publicity for the editor of the Journal acknowledges a serenade by the Guards' band when
                    "the soft notes of Annie Laurie fell upon the ear in the midnight hour
                    with an exceeding sweetness."9
            
            The veteran company was the more attentive because rival claimants were appearing
                    on the scene to claim attention. 
                  
                     7
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                            Journal. Nov. 18, 1858.
                  
                     8
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Oct. 23, 1857.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., Aug. 22, 1857.
               
                     On August 5, 1857, a new artillery company
                    was Organized10 as a friendly rival to the 
                        Marion
                     Artillery Company, and on August 7 the City Grays, an infantry
                    company, held their first parade.11 This parade had as an
                    objective the home of General W. J. Elliott who had been elected captain of the
                    company. The honor conferred on General Elliott carried with it certain
                    obligations, including the timely serving of refreshments and the granting of
                    pecuniary aid in the purchase of equipment. No volunteer company was complete
                    without some sponsor whose generosity would express itself in entertainment or
                    more substantial aid.
            Monetary aid was especially desirable in the purchase of uniforms. The average
                    volunteer might be able to buy an inexpensive campaign outfit but he could not
                    afford the elaborate dress uniform deemed so necessary for public appearances.
                    Private contributions or public benefits were utilized to secure the necessary
                    funds to provide distinctive uniforms. Adornment was an object in itself. The
                    City Grays of 
                        Indianapolis
                     appointed a special committee on trimmings and when their dress
                    uniform was assembled it consisted of gray coat and pantaloons with black cloth
                    trimmings, corded with gold, and a bear-skin shako.12 The
                    company in full dress resembled a convention of drum majors and at their
                    appearance on parade "a general feeling of admiration fell from the
                    lips of men, women and children."13
            
            The 
                        Lafayette
                     Guards and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Guards wore the regulation coat with white trousers as a dress
                    uniform. Their most striking adornment was a plumed hat, and the commander of
                    the 
                        Lafayette
                     company was especially fond of calling for a parade with
                    "white pants and plumes."14 Probably the 
                        Lafayette
                     Guards were pricked by the spur of rivalry for in addition to a gun
                    squad, a Teutonic company and the Turners, that ambitious young city boasted of
                    two volunteer fire companies. One had a name symbolic of incendiarism and
                    rebellion, in Kossuth, but the other in becoming contrast
                    modestly called itself, "The Good Intent Fire company."
                    Crawfords-ville's fire company and its 
                        Wabash
                     Cadets furnished no real 
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., Aug. 5, 1857.
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., Aug. 11, 1857.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid. Nov. 12, 1857.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid. Nov. 13, 1857.
                  
                     14
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, July 12, 1859.
               
                     rivalry for the 
                        Montgomery
                     Guards, for by 1859 this latter company had adopted a Zouave
                    uniform with red cap, blue jacket and "red breeches like meal bags
                    gathered at the knees."15
            
            Indiana youths were not the only ones addicted to bright colors. Many companies,
                    perhaps to demonstrate their impartiality, incorporated most if not all the
                    major colors into one uniform. The dress uniform of the 
                        New York
                     City Guard included a bear-skin cap, white dress coat, faced with
                    red and trimmed with gold, and blue trousers with red stripes. The Garde La 
                        Fayette
                     boasted a blue frock coat with red cuffs, collars and shoulder
                    knots, red cloth caps and pantaloons. To complete the picture each man nursed a
                    moustache and goatee and carried a short sword "imported from 
                        France
                    ." The Juneau Guards of Milwaukee wore bear-skin caps, red
                    jackets decorated with lace, blue pants with white cord, and white cross belts
                    with silver ornaments.16
            
            This attempt to out-dress Solomon in all his glory might have been made in behalf
                    of military efficiency and personal morale but the weight of evidence inclines
                    to a different conclusion. Dress parades were made over well travelled streets
                    in the hope that the brave might be viewed by the fair. When the men of the
                    fifties dubbed General Scott "Old Fuss and Feathers," they
                    were characterizing an epoch as well as an individual. Men may cherish a
                    suppressed desire to imitate the lillies of the field but only occasionally find
                    sufficient excuse to gratify that desire. The voluntary military companies of
                    the fifties afforded opportunities and the newspaper descriptions indicate that
                    the members made the most of them.
            The movement had its social as well as its athletic features. After drill there
                    was often a dance in honor "of the God of war and the Goddess of
                        friskers."17 When a company from 
                        Lafayette
                     visited the 
                        Crawfordsville
                        Montgomery
                     Guards, the members were entertained by a dinner and dance. They
                    "had plenty to eat and drink, and all arrived home in good time this
                    morning and of course duly sober."18 Military
                    encampments were never completely successful unless terminated by a great 
                  
                     15
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Feb. 23, 1860.
                  
                     16 Milwaukee Sentinel, July 21,
                            1852.
                  
                     17
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal. Aug. 14, 1860.
                  
                     18
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, Sept. 11. 1857.
               
                     military ball which visiting companies
                    patronized by sending "a large representation of their beauty and
                        elite."19
            
            The ladies were as usual doing their share in fostering the military spirit. The
                    thousand ships launched through the beguilements of Helen of Troy had their
                    counterpart in the thousand flags fabricated by "fairy
                    fingers" for the volunteer companies. Two months after their
                    organization the City Grays of 
                        Indianapolis
                     were presented with company colors, Mrs. Sarah E. Bolton made an
                    appropriate presentation speech on behalf of the women of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Captain Elliott made an appropriate response.20 Just what was said the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal did not record. The general trend of his remarks might
                    be judged by the report of a similar affair in Charleston, 
                        South Carolina
                    , where an "oration replete with thought and feeling was
                    delivered to a large audience of fair women and brave
                        men….."21
            
            Of course flag-raising like flag-waving was a very serious matter in the fifties,
                    and generally speaking everything was managed with a proper regard for the
                    standards of conduct set forth in McGuffey's Eclectic
                        Readers. Note this remonstrance from a 
                        Cincinnati
                     paper of 1856: "Military gentlemen should not take nice
                    young ladies in pink silk to the ball and leave their wives to mope in calico at
                        home."22
            
            This was serious enough, but one hopes the gentlemen did not add to their
                    derelictions by dancing the Garotte Cotillion, which according to the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Courier, was becoming very fashionable in 1857. Here is the
                    editorial description: "The ladies swing corners. Having done this, the
                    gentlemen place their arms around their (the ladies') necks and kiss
                    them on the left cheek. Young ladies screech and fall into young
                    gentleman's arms. Gentlemen seize young ladies in their arms and
                    waltz to their seats."23 Comments by editors
                    indicate a tendency towards over emphasis of the social activities of the
                    military. Collations in which speech making and the drinking of toasts left
                    little time for drill were of frequent occurrence, and there were constant
                    warnings against too much conviviality. One commentator on the 
                        Lafayette
                     encampment of 
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., July 1, 1859.
                  
                     20
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal. Oct. 14, 1857.
                  
                     21 Charleston Courant, July 3,
                            1857.
                  
                     22
                            Star of the West, March 29, 1856.
                  
                     23
                            
                        
                                    Lafayette
                                 Daily Courier, March 24, 1857.
               
                     1859 declared that "Captain
                    Bourbon" should be given a summary court-martial and be drummed out of
                        camp.24
            
            This interest in the welfare of the companies indicates the regard in which the
                    military pastime was held. Honorary members of the Milwaukee Light Guard Company
                    contributed $1400 a year for its support.25 The 
                        Indianapolis
                     City Grays were awarded $100 when their enrollment
                    exceeded seventy, and they were aided by benefit performances.26 The Guards, close rivals of the Grays, had the support of honorary
                    members, the aid of certain prize moneys and the usual benefits. Military
                    companies on excursion were never charged full fare by the railroad companies
                    and often traveled on passes. Volunteers, in fact, considered such concessions
                    as vested rights, and when the Covington and 
                        Lexington
                     railroad charged the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Guards two-thirds fare for indifferent accommodations, there was
                    vehement protest. When the offending railroad reported a deficit, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     editor suggested that this was the natural result of such an
                    illiberal policy as that followed in the treatment of the Guards.27
            
            National holidays, state and county fairs, and dedications were not considered
                    complete without the appearance of one or more of the voluntary companies. If
                    public occasions were not numerous enough the companies would make their own by
                    staging a competitive drill or an encampment. Interchange of visits by
                    neighboring companies was common and such visits were occasions for great
                    enthusiasm and excitement. Note the comment of an 
                        Indianapolis
                     editor on the occasion of the visit of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Grays to Shelbyville: "Talk as we will of peace, there is
                    a charm in war-like preparations of which the gay parade is but the type or
                    shadow, that enlists all hearts both old and young, and the pride that all
                    countries take in their military, and here in our free America the spirit that
                    impels our youth to sacrifice time and means to support military organizations,
                    is but a tribute paid to this passion or principle in the universal human
                        heart."28
            
            Unfortunately editors did not confine themselves to generalization. All too
                    frequently they were as biased as alumni 
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., July 1, 1859.
                  
                     25 Milwaukee Daily Sentinel,
                            July 22, 1858.
                  
                     26
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Oct. 30, 1857.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., Sept. 8, 1857.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., Aug. 15, 1859.
               
                     followers of a college football team. The
                    modest enthusiasm of a Milwaukee writer when comparing a regiment of 
                        United States
                    ' regulars with the local Light Guard Company is an
                    example. The regulars he conceded presented a "tolerably soldierly
                    appearance," but were quite out of the picture when compared with
                    Milwaukee's pride. He concluded that "Uncle Sam is nowhere
                    when compared with Milwaukee in the military line."29
            
            The metropolis of 
                        Wisconsin
                     was not alone in this boasting for a 
                        Crawfordsville
                     editor stood ready to bet his pile that Lew
                    Wallace's Zouaves were the best drilled company in the state of
                        Indiana.30 In this he had support from an 
                        Indianapolis
                     observer at the 1860 encampment who praised the "Arab
                    performance" of the Zouaves and proclaimed them "a little
                    ahead of anything similar seen in these parts."
               31 A 
                        Lafayette
                     editor was more impartial when he included all the companies
                    participating in the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     encampment of 1859 declaring that, "The military science
                    displayed in the drills, parades and evolutions, is worthy of all
                        praise."32
            
            The encampment at which these evolutions occurred was one of the outstanding
                    events of the history of volunteer companies. In 1859 
                        Lafayette
                    , combining the appeal of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Battle ground with the interest in an Independence celebration,
                    announced an inter-state military encampment. The youth of the city began
                    preparations in the spring of 1859. A gun squad, armament one cannon,33 and a company of hussars were formed.34 These organizations were welcomed as supports to existing companies,
                    the Teutonic Rifles and the 
                        Lexington
                     Guards. Volunteers drilled six days a week while the gun squad made
                    as much noise as possible with the lone cannon, and the Teutonic Rifles secured
                    a little taste of active service through a raid on a camp of thieving
                        gypsies.35 Citizens raised money to aid the local
                    companies and the newspapers promised that the fete would be "the most
                    brilliant and pleasing ever held in the middle west."36
            
            
               
                  29 Milwaukee Daily Sentinel, Aug. 4,
                        1857.
               
                  30
                        
                            Crawfordsville
                        
                        Review, Aug. 7, 1858.
               
                  31
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, Sept. 22, 1860.
               
                  32
                        
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Daily Courier, July 5, 1859.
               
                  33
                        Ibid., June 20, 1859.
               
                  34
                        Ibid., June 22, 1859.
               
                  35
                        Ibid., June 20, 1859.
               
                  36
                        Ibid., July 1, 1859.
            
            
            Twelve military companies from Indiana, 
                        Ohio
                    , 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                     attended the encampment.37 The railroads in
                    addition to giving reduced fares had the train crews arrange decorations of
                    flowers, flags and evergreens on the locomotive, all of which was done according
                    to the reporter with "exquisite taste."38
                    The program alone occupied a column in the local paper. The afternoon and
                    evening of July first was taken up with the reception of visiting companies by
                    the 
                        Lafayette
                     military and July second was given over to a trip to the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Battle-ground where Henry S. Lane was the speaker of the day. July
                    third was the Sabbath and the day was observed in 
                        Lafayette
                    , representatives from various colleges of the state presiding at
                    the meetings. The climax of the encampment came on July Fourth when the
                    companies under general command of H. W. Ellsworth, famous Zouave commander from 
                        Chicago
                    , with Lew Wallace second in command, performed before the crowds.
                    The military evolutions were only incidental, however, for the poet laureate of
                    the occasion recited an original poem lasting over one hour. Following this
                    recital the Honorable Thomas Corwin of 
                        Ohio
                    , speaker of the day, announced that' he was too ill to
                    speak, after which he proceeded to edify his hearers for more than two hours.39 Then to remind the audience that this was a military
                    encampment, a 
                        Louisville
                     company presented the intricacies of Zouave drill.
            The climax of the celebration came with the great soiree and festival of Monday
                    night where music was furnished by military bands and "a thousand
                    burners reflected their radiance on the beauty and chivalry." Socially
                    and oratorically the encampment was a complete success, but its military
                    achievements were somewhat less evident. The story of this encampment as well as
                    that of inter-city visits and dress parades indicate that the companies
                    themselves were much more interested in self expression than in efficiency.
                    Drill was incidental to display, and no mimic war complete unless there were
                    crinolined ladies in the offing.
            One evidence of this very casual interest in efficiency is evidenced by the
                    character and results of target practice. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Grays marched to their target-shooting escorting 
                  
                     37 Milwaukee Sentinel, July 7,
                            1859.
                  
                     38
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, July 5, 1859.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., July 5, 1859.
               
                     a target borne by a giant negro. Of the
                    target shooting at one hundred yards, a writer complains that "the
                    distance was entirely too short for the long range of the new rifle guns. They
                    could have done much better at two or three hundred yards."40 The target practice of the same company eight months
                    later does not impress the editor. The attendance was small and if some of the
                    shooting was very good some of it was very poor.41 The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Guards were equally deficient as marksmen. Shooting at a target
                    eighteen inches in diameter at a range of eighty yards, they achieved rather
                    startling results: "Some hit the ground fifty feet in front, some hit
                    eight foot up the tree, some hit the fence five feet on either side; a good many
                    more hit the tree close about the target."42 But no
                    one made a bull's-eye, and, despite editorial qualifications, the
                    shooting was disconcertingly inaccurate for a group of young men but one
                    generation removed from the frontier.
            We dwell on this ineffectiveness because it indicates that the companies in
                    general had slight interest in the professional side of military training. These
                    companies had little or no instruction in musketry; and bayonets, often gold
                    tipped, were looked upon as highly ornamental rather than useful. Certain Zouave
                    companies, such as the Ellsworth Zouaves of 
                        Chicago
                     developed real proficiency with the bayonet, as did some of the
                    rest of the militia companies but the general average in such work was very low.
                    The trip of the Milwaukee Light Guards to the East in 1859 and the really
                    superlative exhibition of the 
                        Chicago
                     Zouaves in their tour of the country in 1860 gave a false
                    impression of the general situation. There is a note of eloquent exaggeration in
                    this comment of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Herald on the visit of the Milwaukee Company to that city:
                    "It is thus we do up our military matters in this country. We have a
                    million men in arms, all volunteers and soldiers con
                    amore—and all without expense to the government. We have a
                    million and a half just such well drilled men as these regularly enrolled in the
                    U. S."43
            
            The fact is, however, that most companies were neither well drilled nor
                    disciplined. Even state militia companies became insubordinate and during the
                    same year the Herald was 
                  
                     40
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Aug. 15, 1859.
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., April 26, 1860.
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., Oct. 11, 1857.
               
                    
                  
                     43
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Herald, July 12, 1859.
               
                     indulging its paean of praise, a 
                        New York
                     Highland regiment threatened mutiny because it could not wear kilts
                    and was placated only when the governor surrendered to the extent of allowing
                    plaid trousers.44
            
            Volunteer companies were sometimes disrupted by racial conflicts, by
                    disagreements as to the election of officers and often by refusal to partake in
                    a celebration because not awarded a place of honor in a parade. 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Lafayette
                     companies were fair weather companies and generally called off
                    drill when it rained. They gave the amateur rather than the professional
                    soldier's reason, for they held it would spoil their uniforms, but
                    neglected to add that bedraggled plumes would not appeal to the fair sex. The
                        Military Gazette recognized some of the limitations of the
                    volunteer company when it declared that, "Fancy parades and too many
                    excursions tell in the long run on our military organizations."45
            
            The professional observer was the first to display the critical attitude, but the
                    spectator was not slow to follow his lead. The onlooker was especially critical
                    of the pomp and pride of the volunteer companies. Organizations were formed to
                    burlesque the actions of the volunteers. The Irishtown Rangers marched to target
                    practice carrying augers for weapons, inspired by the music of hand organs and
                    tin trumpets. Leslie's ran a series of cartoons on the volunteer
                    soldier. One of these cartoons pictured a volunteer armed to the teeth and
                    arrayed in all the characteristic pomp and splendor of the time. Nearby stood
                    two small boys. One addressed the other: "Hi, Bill! Here's
                    one of the rifle corpses! Let him shoot at you for a penny. I seen him a
                    practicing at the mark."46
            
            A journalist in 
                        Ohio
                     offered a broadsword as a prize to the heaviest man mustering with
                    the Falstaff Guards.47 In 
                        New York
                     the Fat Man's Guard held an occasional parade displaying
                    as the central attraction a corpulent negro target bearer. Sometimes the most
                    serious endeavors afforded considerable of the burlesque.
                    "Corporal" writing to the Military Gazette
                    in 1860 described a military convention in 
                        Cincinnati
                    : "As usual on such occasions we had a superfluity of
                    epaulettes to a modicum of muskets—the officers came very 
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., Jan. 7, 1859.
                  
                     45
                            Military Gazette, Nov. 15, 1860.
                  
                     46
                            Leslie's Weekly, June 2, 1860.
                  
                     47 Milwaukee Daily Sentinel,
                            Sept. 4, 1858.
               
                     near entirely masking the rank and file. To
                    command all told, about 200 men, there was a Major General and staff, two
                    Brigadier Generals and staff, a Lieutenant Colonel, a Major; and I
                    don't know how many Captains and Subalterns."
            Some of the officers, "Corporal" held, were neither ornamental
                    nor useful. Not one was equipped according to his grade. Not one had a decently
                    caparisoned horse. The privates in the independent companies were well supplied
                    with swords and epaulettes and in some cases quite out-dressed their officers,
                    who in some instances had resorted to the regalia of a local lodge. As the
                    witness avers, the result was picturesque but unmilitary.48
            
            Not all the organizations were so inefficient. Included in the militia companies
                    of the various states were well organized regiments such as the 
                        New York
                     Seventh or the 
                        Massachusetts
                     Eighth. Among independent companies there was the really unique and
                    spectacular organization—the 
                        Chicago
                     Zouaves. This company was known earlier as the National Guard
                    Cadets, but was reorganized into a Zouave company by Colonel
                    Ellsworth—killed during the Civil War while hauling down a
                    Confederate flag at 
                        Alexandria
                    . The purposes of the company as stated by the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Press and Tribune were "social enjoyment and physical
                    education." From the time that Ellsworth took command the organization
                    was under severe discipline. Drill was held from three to six times a week and
                    shirkers were quickly dropped from the company. The "Golden
                    Rule" was adopted, the cadets taking pledge not to enter a public,
                    billiard, drinking or gambling hall while members of the company. When not in
                    uniform they were to wear badges of membership so that the public could know
                    them and judge of their conduct. Such regulations were noteworthy for a period
                    when convivial celebrations were the rule. Moreover, the rules were rigidly
                    enforced. Twelve men were expelled on one occasion for failure to live up to
                    their pledges. The regulations were indubitably onerous and only the personality
                    of Ellsworth coupled with the prospect of a long tour of the East kept the men
                    in line.49
            
            When the company began its much heralded trip there were only forty-seven
                    survivors out of an original group of 
                  
                     48
                            Military Gazette, March 1, 1860.
                  
                     49 H. H. Miller. Reminisences of 
                                    Chicago
                                 during the Civil War, p. 21.
               
                     two hundred. These men had been selected on
                    the same principle that a football coach selects the members of his team, They
                    were required to keep rigid training rules.50 Before be.
                    ginning the tour, they drilled three hours every night for six nights a week.
                    The regulation movements were only a small part of their program, gymnastic
                    stunts and extremely intricate evolutions being also included in their nightly
                    drills.
            Newspapers of rival cities commented on the bizarre and unorthodox uniforms of
                    the Zouaves in the caustic phrases that were characteristic of the period, but
                    once they saw the Zouaves from 
                        Chicago
                    , they generously acknowledged their error. They came to jeer; they
                    remained to cheer. After the drill occurred in 
                        New York
                     City, the Herald proclaimed: "The
                    military furore has reached its climax. The gentle muses are dethroned. Mars is
                    now celebrated!!! No company in the world could compete with the 
                        Chicago
                     Zouaves." Leslie's Weekly of
                    June 28, 1860, declared that they "moved with an ease of motion, a kind
                    of dashing confidence and elasticity which we do not see in any of our
                    companies." Harper's Weekly of the same
                    date carried a full page of cartoons celebrating the gymnastic feats of
                    Ellsworth's company. The cartoons represent members of the company
                    scaling walls without ladders, crossing rivers without bridges, skirmishing in a
                    morass on stilts, and accepting the chances of the battlefield by successfully
                    dodging cannonballs.
            On another page of the Weekly, Harper's bard bursts
                    forth with the following: 
                        THE ZOUAVES
                        Your Zouave corps, O haughty 
                                France
                            ! 
                        We looked on as a wild romance, 
                        And many a one was heard to scoff 
                        At Algiers and at Malakoff;
                        Nor did we Yankees credit quite
                        Their evolutions in the fight. 
                        But now we're very sure what they
                        Have done can here be done to-day,
                        When thus before our sight deploys
                        The gallant corps from 
                                Illinois
                            ,—American Zouaves!
                    
            
            
               
                  50
                        Ibid., 25.
            
            
            When General Hardee criticized the company for being showy and without
                    practicable training, Ellsworth drilled "according to Hardee"
                    and then "according to 
                        Scott
                    ," in the best West Point manner. Everywhere the Zouaves
                    received an ovation. When in the course of their tour, they arrived at 
                        Washington
                    , they were reviewed by no less a person than President Buchanan.
            When the company returned to 
                        Chicago
                     in September, 1860, the men and their leader were greeted with the
                    acclaim accorded a conquering army. Regulations were ignored when the company
                    marched to the Wigwam, where 
                        Lincoln
                     had been nominated some weeks earlier. The men were loaded with the
                    spoils of conquest including highly decorated fatigue caps, epaulettes, plumes,
                    badges, medals and cartridge-boxes. The city turned out as for a gala day while
                    the reporters celebrated the event in resonant prose and fervent verse of the
                    ante-bellum vintage.
            One month later the Zouaves disbanded. The reaction from the strain of constant
                    drill, and the inability of Ellsworth to give the company his undivided
                    attention were the immediate causes. Incidentally they were following the
                    example of other companies. Everywhere the Volunteers were disappearing while
                    military "fans" were writing letters to the press asking for
                    an explanation or for reassurance. The Military Gazette held
                    that the spending of time and money on long trips and the over emphasis on showy
                    uniforms were the causes for the decline of the companies. There is evidence in
                    the newspapers of more impelling causes. In 1859-1860 we find announcements of
                    cricket and baseball games, and there was apparent an increasing interest in
                    rowing and boxing. The new sports required a smaller number of participants,
                    were more competitive in spirit, and had an appeal to individual initiative that
                    attracted American youth. Indiana papers now carried notices of meetings of the
                    Wide-A wakes where formerly dress parades of the military were announced. The
                    College Cadets of 
                        Wabash
                     College ceased drill in the early summer of 1860 because it was too
                    hot. 
                        Indianapolis
                     volunteer companies were disbanded and in 
                        Lafayette
                     interest lagged after the great encampment of 1859.
            The decadence of the voluntary company did not mean an aversion to active
                    military service, for many officers and 
                    privates of these companies made enviable records during the Civil War.
                    Ninety-four per cent of the active membership of the Ellsworth Zouaves of 1860
                    saw service in the war between the states.51 The 
                        Montgomery
                     Guards, College Cadets, 
                        Indianapolis
                     Guards and 
                        Lafayette
                     Guards made equally good records. The decline of the voluntary
                    military organizations was due not to a decay of the military spirit but to its
                    limitations as a pastime and the high cost of uniforms and equipment.52
            
            The coming of less elaborate sports but more particularly the excitement of the
                    political campaign of 1860 with its stump speeches and torch light processions
                    destroyed interest in the more formal type of drilling and parading. It was much
                    more interesting to join the Wide-A wakes, or a rival marching club where there
                    was a possibility of real hostilities than to maintain the dignified aloofness
                    of a soldier on parade. The political struggle whose outcome presaged something
                    more than mimic battles saw the disappearance of most of the volunteer
                    companies. It was not a military calamity since the amateur company offered
                    little training for the grim business of war. Bright uniforms, military balls,
                    banquets and barbecues were no real preparation for a profession where dealing
                    death and destruction were the objectives. The young man of the fifties was only
                    playing at a game, unconsciously groping towards a national pastime. That it was
                    left to a succeeding generation to develop a permanent national sport was one of
                    the accidents of Fate. War intervened to usurp the time and energy of the young
                    manhood of the sixties. The erstwhile pastime now became a profession. The
                    reward was no longer to be found in the plaudits of the gay throng but rested in
                    the knowledge of the Civil War veterans that they were taking part in the grim
                    game of death whose outcome would determine the fate of the nation.
            
               
                  51
                        Ibid., 87.
               
                  52 Kenosha Daily Telegraph, Nov. 8,
                        1860.
            
         
         
         
            The Western Association of Writers
             A Literary Reminiscence1
            
            By GEORGE S. COTTMAN
            
            More than thirty years ago, Meredith Nicholson, then at the threshold of his
                    reputation as a man of letters, happily introduced himself as such by making an
                    historical and critical study of literary development in his native state. What
                    Mr. Nicholson gathered up in this study, The Hoosiers, amply
                    proves that the transition of Hoosierdom from a rather crude condition to the
                    cultural status of 1900, during the last half of the nineteenth century, makes
                    an interesting theme to say the least, and one that flatters the pride of the
                    loyal Indianian. This pride is now not a little in evidence, it being quite the
                    custom for books and articles about Indiana to dwell laudingly on our
                    intellectual upthrust.
            In view of this one rather wonders why such scant attention has been paid to the
                    literary manifestation exemplified by the Western Association of Writers.
                    Perhaps it is because it did not sufficiently issue in some kind of practical
                    results, as organizations are supposed to do; or that it rested not so much on
                    solid accomplishment as on the little vanities of would-be writers. Even if
                    these charges were true (and at worst they are only partially true), the fact
                    remains that as a manifestation it was an integral part of our literary history,
                    and as such challenges interest. As an expression of the local cultural
                    influences then at work it took on an unusual, or even unique, form. So far as
                    the writer knows there was nothing else in existence quite like it. It was
                    neither a club nor a series of conventions in the ordinary acceptance of those
                    terms. Rather it was more like an old-fashioned country "literary
                    society," suited to all tastes, where those regaled might hear anything
                    from the poetical winnowing of angels' wings to a dissertation by
                    Tomps on "dreenin' swamps". An enlarged and
                    expansive "literary," let us say, whose hospitality extended
                    to kindred spirits beyond the borders of the state; which congregated year after
                    year for the pure joy of the thing, and in numbers that filled good-sized
                    auditoriums.
            
               
                  1 Mr. Cottman was actively connected with the Western
                        Association of Writers, much of the time as one of the officials.
            
            
            The organization which assumed the somewhat ambitious name, "The Western
                    Association of Writers," was, despite its broader implications, largely
                    an impulse of the literary spirit in Indiana, although in its membership were a
                    good many from other states. It was originated and kept alive chiefly by Indiana
                    writers. It held all of its gatherings on Indiana soil throughout its existence,
                    except one, when a meeting was held at 
                        Dayton
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . The Association was active for twenty years or more, dating from
                    1886, and the memory of it is now perpetuated on at least a few literary shelves
                    by three modest souvenir volumes containing the "Sayings and
                    Doings" of as many meetings. More meetings were not similarly
                    commemorated because of that ever-familiar explanation, "insufficient
                    funds." Subsequent to these records a fairly complete collection of
                    programs has been preserved by the writer, along with newspaper matter currently
                    printed, such material serving to check this article, which is largely
                    reminiscent, relative to the years 1891 to 1904. Before 1891, data has been
                    obtained from Miss Mary E. Cardwill, one of the editors of the souvenir books
                    and the author of the historical sketch in the volume for 1889. Her sketch,
                    which deals with the beginnings of the Association may, in turn, be prefaced by
                    a consideration of the local literary conditions at that time.
            Meredith Nicholson says in The Hoosiers that the success of
                    several Indiana authors, particularly that of Maurice Thompson and James
                    Whitcomb Riley, "were of a great stimulus to literary ambition in
                    Indiana". This may be true, especially as regards Riley, judging from
                    the epidemic of Hoosier dialect that broke out after his advent, but the
                    greatest of all stimuli were the local papers that here and there and at
                    different periods afforded outlets for the literary urge. The old Locomotive, the first 
                        Indianapolis
                     paper of a literary character, which flourished before the days of
                    Thompson and Riley, reveals in its files, as Jacob P. Dunn puts it, "a
                    wealth of poetical aspiration that is fairly startling. There was poetry of
                    every class, from the most pathetic obituary to the most frivolous doggerel and
                    on all subjects from ‘Autumn’ to ‘Pogues
                    Run’." Some years later when several periodicals that
                    encouraged local writers, particularly the Saturday Herald and
                    the Sunday Journal, appeared in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the effect was like that of a bed of flower seeds responding to
                    warm  rains. There were generous crops of
                    poetry and essays with occasional fiction.2 The Saturday Herald, under three successive owners—George C.
                    Harding, J. C. Ochiltree and the Hyman brothers was especially generous of its
                    space to contributors, and thus, though their productions were rarely or never
                    paid for, there was drawn to its weekly columns a happy family of amateur
                    literati who became mutually acquainted at long range. This was the situation
                    when the idea of an organization of these kindred spirits found birth. The
                    notion seems to have germinated in two or three minds about the same time. In
                    the summer of 1885 Mrs. Maria Louise Andrews, of 
                        Connersville
                    , Ind., suggested to the then editor of the Herald, Mr. Ochiltree, the bringing together of his contributors for a
                    more intimate acquaintance. He was willing that his paper should stand sponsor
                    for such a scheme, but nothing further was then done. Then the same idea cropped
                    up in a correspondence between three Herald contributors, J.
                    N. Matthews, H. W. Taylor and Richard Lew Dawson, Matthews advocating
                    "a gathering of the poets of the 
                        Wabash
                     valley in some convenient city or resort, for the purpose of
                    enjoying whatever pleasure might result from a meeting so novel and
                    unique". This struck the other two correspondents as a happy
                    proposition and the trio tried out the question in the columns of the Herald, inviting the views of others. This, it seems, was
                    quite independent of the beginning initiated by Mrs. Andrews,3 but she soon joined forces with the other movers, and a little later,
                    under date of April 3,1886, she and Mr. Dawson, as joint authors, published in
                    the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Current, the following "call", addressed to
                    the "Literary Profession"; 
                        A call is hereby extended to all writers of verse and general literature,
                            and especially to the writers of the 
                                Wabash
                             valley and the adjacent states, to meet in convention in
                            June, 1886, at the city of 
                                Terre Haute
                             or 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind. The objects of this meeting are as
                            follows: 
                        1. To form an association of the literary profession for
                                    mutual strength, profit and acquaintance.
                        2. To discuss methods of composition, and all topics
                                    pertaining to 
                     
                        
                        
                     
                        2 Riley's prose stories first
                                appeared in the Journal; his "Flying
                                Islands of the Night" in the Herald.
                                Among his fellow-contributors to the Herald, I
                                find the names of H. W. Taylor, T. C. Harbaugh, James Newton
                                Matthews, Richard Lew Dawson, Ben D. House, Will Farrand Felch, Emma
                                Carleton, Margaret Holmes, E. S. L. Thompson and Geo. S. Cottman.
                                Most of these are now dead and forgotten, but all were then aspiring
                                to imperishable crowns.
                     
                        3 Since writing this paper, I have found in a
                                letter from the late Mrs. Emma Carleton this statement:
                                "Mrs. 
                                    Andrews
                                , whom I knew intimately, was the original inventor of
                                it [the W. A. W.]. I heard her plan it long before she could get any
                                men to take any interest in it."
                  
                        
                        
                     the advancement of literature in America.
                     
                                3. To produce and publish a representative volume of western
                                    authors from the miscellaneous poems, stories and sketches read
                                    during this convention or festival.
                                A full attendance of all writers is earnestly desired in the hope
                                    that the success of this gathering may result in permanent good
                                    to American literature and the welfare of its professional
                                    workers.
                                Please make known at once your purpose to attend, choice of
                                    location, and the character of your contributions.
                            
                  
                    
            
            This call, reprinted in circular form, was next sent out to all the author band
                    within a certain radius whose addresses could be obtained. The response
                    convinced the promoters of the plan that their enthusiasm was not misplaced.
                    More than a hundred answers endorsing the proposed experiment were received, and
                    the movement speedily culminated in what proved to be the first of many
                    meetings, held June 30,1886, in the auditorium of Plymouth church in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Something like seventy-five representatives of the writing
                    profession attended, and they brought their poems and essays along for a
                    literary exhibition. The convention was of such unusual character that it
                    excited quite a little local attention. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal had this to say of it: 
                        Indiana has taken the lead in a number of things, but the most novel and
                            fanciful, as some supposed, was to be the convention of western authors
                            to be held in this city. When these writers, however, did meet, the
                            assemblage, instead of being food for laughter, as some persons thought
                            and even went so far as to say it would be, proved to be a very
                            practical and business-like body.
                    
            
            While the most of those who gathered at this first meeting had small claim to
                    literary reputation, a number of well-known names gave prestige to the venture.
                    Maurice Thompson, then one of Indiana's best-known men of letters,
                    was made president, which office he held the first three years. Vice-presidents
                    were Will Cumback, Jonathan W. Gordon, Judge Clarence A. Buskirk and Judge Cyrus
                    McNutt. In the membership were James Whitcomb Riley, Ida Husted Harper, Mary
                    Hartwell Catherwood, Margaret Holmes Bates, Dan L. Paine and Ben D. House. A
                    little later we find the names of Sarah T. Bolton, William Dudley Foulke, John 
                        Clark
                     Ridpath, John M. Coulter, and Evaleen Stein. That faithful
                    wheel-horse in the cause of Hoosier literature, Benjamin S. Parker, was actively
                    affiliated from the beginning.
            This initial meeting, which was regarded as experimental,  so encouraged its sponsors that another one was
                    held in October of the same year, and others again in 1887 and 1888, all at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . This was a formative and a growing period. The sessions were
                    lengthened, first to two, then to three days'
                    duration—which may be taken as evidence that "a good time
                    was had by all". Meanwhile the organization was trying to get
                    acquainted with itself and its possibilities. First it took the name
                    "American Association of Writers," which, to an outsider,
                    rather appealed to the risibles, in view of the obscure and local character of
                    the society. Then it was changed to "The Western Association of
                    Writers," an appelation not so inept, since not a few who shared in
                    membership came drifting in from beyond the borders of our state.
            Next there was a rather strenuous effort to decide and clarify the purposes of
                    the association. That it was to promote a more intimate acquaintance among the
                    literary fraternity, to feed their aspirations and stimulate their work was
                    generally understood and agreed to, but much else that was said by way of
                    "purpose" was little more than sounding brass and tinkling
                    cymbals so far as real meaning was concerned. The various views advanced
                    relative to material benefits to the craft meant little because literature as
                    represented by this group was, with few exceptions, not a gainful occupation but
                    a cultural indulgence, however much the practitioners might hope for monetary
                    returns. For example, one of the propositions was "to protect the
                    interests of American writers against piratical publishers," So far as
                    most of the W.A.W. folks were concerned this was rather superfluous since they
                    had nothing to protect. Their books, in most instances published at the expense
                    of the authors, rarely paid for the printing, and the assumption that a pirate
                    was lying in wait to reprint them was little short of ludicrous. This may sound
                    unfeeling, but the bald fact, as revealed in the history of the organization, is
                    that the writers there represented took themselves a bit too seriously, their
                    self-appraisal challenging a jeer from those who knew the facts. It was these
                    amiable little vanities that explain the Journal's
                    remark above quoted about the meeting being "food for
                    laughter". From the beginning and throughout the existence of the
                    society, there were those who poked fun at it more or less good-naturedly on
                    account of its pretensions, as they thought, and without any very close
                    examination  as to its real excuse for
                    being. Roswell Field, a brother of Eugene, who wrote for a 
                        Chicago
                     paper, dubbed the organization the "Gravel Pit
                    Association" (because of the place where most of its meetings were
                    held) and regaled his readers with periodical doses of ironical humor at the
                    expense of the literary fledglings. Others called it a mutual admiration
                    society, and one caustic wit put frills on this by describing the move ment as a
                    verbal pact or gentleman's agreement that "I will listen to
                    yours if you will listen to mine."4 And so it went,
                    but still the poets met to trill their chorus of roundelays, while the
                    essayists, philosophers, educators, doctors and what not disseminated their
                    various kinds of literary effusions.
            By the time of the fourth 
                        Indianapolis
                     convention, the W.A.W., as it familiarly came to be called, had
                    assumed a permanency of character. Miss Cardwill tells us that "these
                    meetings had resulted in the formation of many pleasant acquaintanceships, and a
                    genial social atmosphere was a specially noticeable feature of the fourth
                    convention". This fraternal spirit engendered by repeated personal
                    touches and kept alive by those staunch members who made the backbone of the
                    society throughout its existence, was the cement that gave coherence to the
                    organization rather than did any utilitarian ideas about protecting writers or
                    making their output more salable. At this time, too, the place of meeting was
                    shifted from the heart of the city to a far more ideal environment, This was 
                        Spring
                        Fountain
                     Park, an idyllic, rural resort on the shores of Eagle lake, near 
                        Warsaw
                    , Ind., which later became 
                        Winona
                     Park, the Presbyterian assembly grounds. Than this spot with its
                    shady groves of forest trees, its profusion of gushing crystal waters, its
                    limpid lake, and withal, its ample hotel and auditorium accommodations, nothing
                    could be more inviting as an Arcadian setting where poets and birds alike might
                    sing their melodious lays. In appreciation of this, the W.A.W. here pitched its
                    camp and here held its annual love feasts from 1889 till its final dissolution
                    some sixteen years later.
            The character of the proceedings and the quality of the literary output of the
                    W.A.W. is fairly represented by the 
                  
                     4 Mrs. Carleton, in her letter above referred to,
                            says that Richard Lew Dawson addressed a poem to Mrs. M. L. 
                                Andrews
                             as his "Sister in Poesy." and she, not to
                            be outdone, wrote one to his as her "Brother in
                            Poesy": whereupon Mrs. Carleton, with characteristic humor,
                            dubbed the newly-fledged society the "Bips and Sips."
                            Dan L. Paine and Meredith Nicholson, she adds, "took it up and
                            we had a good deal of surreptitious fun over it."
               
                     three souvenir volumes already referred to,
                    these being the records for the years 1889, 1890 and 1891. The programs were
                    made up of addresses and essays liberally interspersed with poems and
                    recitations. The prose offerings, sometimes ponderous and boresome, it must be
                    said, generally had some phase of literature as the theme, and revealed a
                    pervasive consciousness that centered on the question of an indigenous western
                    school of writers. A persistent note was that this school should be free from
                    domination by eastern influences, coupled with a belief that segregation and
                    mutual encouragement would stimulate local belles-lettres. The
                    quality of the verse, for the most part was such as may be found in the
                    "poets' corner" of any newspaper that sees fit to
                    encourage the Helicon folk by maintaining this modest stall for Pegasus, with
                    now and then that strain of real quality not to be defined but which is known
                    when found. Indeed, did not special mention savor too much of partial favors a
                    number might be named as worthy devotees of the muse who, when at their best,
                    gave proof of that unappeasable hunger for the divine mysteries "Which
                    hurts and haunts and blesses us forever."
            Of one author, however, an exception will be made because she was so unlike all
                    others. This was Evaleen Stein, one of the most exquisite spirits that ever
                    found expression through our local periodicals. As an interpreter of
                    nature—with a love that amounted to a passion—she had no
                    peer among our poets, and to all those influences that emanate from nature she
                    responded as does a sensitized film to light rays. Moreover she possessed the
                    art by which to convey her subtle messages through her verse, even to those who
                    cared little for the nuances of nature. Headings of her own productions were, in
                    their own way, as inimitable as were Riley's in his way, and she was
                    a prime favorite on the platform.
            This brief appraisal of the W.A.W. is an attempt to pick out the various elements
                    and ideas that entered into the composition of the Association. In the
                    writer's view, the point of interest lay not so much in the actual
                    literary standards of the organization as in the fact that all kinds of authors
                    who were moved by the literary impulse, flocked together so insistently year
                    after year. It was the gravitating to each other of kindred spirits who in their
                    daily environments, found scant appreciation of the fugitive fancies that
                    haunted them. Since  this sympathetic social
                    contact carried with it the cordial invitation to make an exhibit of those
                    fancies it offered a special incentive for the annual meeting. And why not? The
                    cynical dart—"I'll listen to yours if
                    you'll listen to mine" carries a barb more cruel than just.
                    Literary, particularly poetical, expression is a reaching upward toward the
                    realm of ideals whether or not a certain standard of merit is attained, and such
                    an effort is much to be desired in a world of sordid aims. The humble sparrow
                    lisping from the wayside hedge and the bobolink spilling forth his riotous
                    melody of crystal notes to take the ear captive contribute each in kind to the
                    fulness of the perfect June day and to the gladness of the world, for, says
                    Richard Realf— 
                        Every little brown bird that doth sing
                        Hath something greater than itself
                        and bears A living word to every living thing.
                    
            
            From this angle, then, pure fellowship as the lodestone merits attention. The
                    philosophically inclined tell us ever and anon about the psychology of religion.
                    Here we have at least glimpses of the psychology of the literary urge. The mass
                    of offerings, verse and prose, rounded up into programs year after year showed
                    what obsessions were born of that urge and how individuals of a certain
                    temperament hungered and thirsted for the power to express themselves in words.
                    A large percentage of them had an intense craving for that sort of publicity
                    vaguely called "fame", and the hoplessly mediocre as well as
                    the talented nursed the hope that they were entitled to the lime light. Indeed
                    now as then, very often the vanity is in inverse ratio to the talent; but after
                    all this is said we find (in that day, at least) our exponents of literature
                    seriously headed toward morals, beauty and idealism.
            After changing the place of meeting from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to Eagle 
                        Lake
                     [
                        Winona
                    ], the meetings, usually held in the month of June, were extended to
                    a full week, counting the coming and the going, thus making of them prolonged
                    festivals. On Monday of the chosen week, the members would come gathering in,
                    and that evening was given over to a general reception and reunion at the park
                    hotel, on which stimulating occasion the winged steed inevitably tried his
                    pinions as though getting in fettle for the next four days. And during those
                    four days,  if one may so express it, his
                    wings were kept flapping. Without this evidence to prove it, one would never
                    suspect that there existed such an appetite for rhyme. Every morning till noon
                    and every evening, poems long and short were in order, being everywhere
                    sandwiched in between the prose contributions of the programs. There were also
                    symposiums where samples on a given theme were presented. In the proceedings for
                    1890, we find "A Poem by Nine Ladies," and "A Poem By
                    Seven Gentlemen". Again offerings were bunched a dozen or so together
                    and called "A Surfeit of Rhyme," though no one seemed to be
                    surfeited, the relish for more rhymes seeming to be just as keen by the time of
                    the next session. Evidently sentiment leaned hard in the direction of poetry and
                    the versifiers who got a chance to be heard as well as to hear had their innings
                    as never before or since. The prose exercises were sometimes diversified by
                    papers and discussions on such odd themes as "Why the Pawpaw Is
                    Poetical and the Turnip Not." In the program of 1901, a novelette
                    written by six collaborators was read.
            The W.A.W. borrowed some prestige from various celebrities who either were
                    regular members or occasional contributors to the programs. Of the former class,
                    John 
                        Clark
                     Rid-path, John Uri Lloyd, W. H. Venable, Coates Kinney and Eugene
                    F. Ware were all men of more than local literary reputation who were among the
                    continuous supporters of the Association. Amos W. Butler, though a scientific
                    rather than a literary personage, was a substantial pillar in an executive
                    capacity, while among those who might be ranked as distinguished visitors at one
                    time or another were Robert J. Burdette, then at. the height of his fame as a
                    humorist, Frank L. Stanton, of the 
                        Atlanta
                    
                    Constitution, Myron W. Reed, Young E. Allison, Mary Hartwell
                    Catherwood, and others. James Whitcomb Riley attended irregularly, but whenever
                    present was honored as the big card, and his readings were the highlights of the
                    occasion.
            Not least among the golden memories of those days is that of the purely social
                    intercourse of long sunny June afternoons when earth and sky and sparkling
                    waters were at their best, and our genial fraternity surrendered itself to
                    sweet-do-nothing. The meetings were usually at the beginning of the summer
                    season at 
                        Winona
                     Park and we had the spacious hotel verandas  and the nooks and byways of the shady grounds
                    virtually to ourselves, and these, during the hours of informal companionship,
                    suggested a scene from Arcadia with groups a-stroll or groups at rest wherever
                    the spot seemed most inviting. Here the seeker after entertainment could find it
                    spiced to his taste what with philosophic discussions here, a snappy argument
                    there with its give and take, or elsewhere a story-swapping contest or exchange
                    of persiflage, there was no lack of intellectual enjoyment. John Clark Ridpath,
                    Will Cumback and Eugene Ware were noted as raconteurs and always lived up to
                    their reputations. Not less famous for his trenchant wit was W. P. Fishback and
                    there were others who could scintillate. Riley, whenever present, was an
                    attraction above all others, for, in the midst of an informal park bench
                    audience as on the rostrum, he carried his own inexhaustible tang. One who knew
                    Riley only from his writings did not half know the fascinations of his
                    personality. A memorable meeting was one when he and "Bob"
                    Burdette made an inseparable team and added to the gaiety of life as the spirit
                    moved them.5
            
            Another source of diversion on the side, which very few will now remember was a
                    little sub-organization of the W.A.W., which called itself "Ye Owl
                    Club," and which originated with a score or so of the lighter-minded,
                    who were never ready to go to bed when other folks did. It had its
                    "initial flocking" in 1895, and an "official
                    owlery" printed by it show the officials to be classed as the
                    "Most Grand Hoo! Hoo!", the "Grand High
                    Hoo!" and other Hoo Hoos of lesser degrees. The by-laws stated that
                    this "club shall hold its meetings during the atmospheric disturbances
                    of the annual W.A.W. week, and its function shall be to recuperate its members
                    after the severe cerebrations of the day. Its sessions shall be mildly orgyanic
                    and of a character to cheer but not inebriate. Sessions shall not begin before
                    10 P.M. nor continue after cock-crow." The qualifications for
                    membership were the ability and willingness to contribute, whenever the Most
                    Grand Hoo! Hoo! so commanded, "an impromptu song, story, recitation,
                    hoot or other recuperative diversion." The Owl Club had fun while it
                    lasted but fell into desuetude because, 
                  
                     5 For matter pertaining to Riley and the W. A. W.,
                            see an article by George S. Cott-man, "Some Reminiscences of
                            James Whitcomb Riley," in Indiana Magazine of
                                History (June, 1918), XIV, 95-107.
               
                     as some claimed, the hotel proprietor would
                    not "allow a rebate for unused sleep."
            As a grand finale to the week's festival, Friday evening was given to
                    a banquet with toasts galore when the literati could give proof that they had
                    not yet run dry. On Saturday there was a general exodus amid fond au revoirs and
                    hopes of reunions yet to come.
            Just why or when the W.A.W. ceased to exist is not easy to learn. So far as the
                    writer's own reminiscent knowledge goes there are limitations since
                    he was not in touch with the Association during its later years. The latest
                    program in hand is that of 1905. By that time interest seemed to be on the wane,
                    largely due, doubtless, to the fact that death had taken many of those who had
                    been the pillars of the organization. Also this program shows a dominating
                    infusion of new names and a corresponding scarcity of old familiar ones, seeming
                    to bear out a contention that a 
                        Chicago
                     group among the members had largely taken over the society. In 1907
                    there was a called meeting of those who remained of the older membership, and
                    about twenty-five came together at the Claypool Hotel in 
                        Indianapolis
                     to consider the question of a resuscitation of the Association.
                    Nothing came of this, and the writer long believed the effort to be the last
                    expiring struggle, but a newspaper clipping discovered more recently shows that
                    in 1908 there was a meeting at which Charles Eugene Banks, of 
                        Chicago
                    , was elected president for the succeeding year.6 With the recording of this fact, the story must, at present, be
                    concluded.
            
               
                  6 The programs show that Banks had been president
                        during 1904 and also during 1906. So far as I can work it out from my
                        incomplete collection of programs, the following persons, in the order
                        named, served as presidents of the Association: Maurice Thompson (three
                        years), Benjamin S. Parker, John Clark Ridpath, Cyrus W. McNutt (?), H. W.
                        Taylor, T. B. Redding, Will Cumback, A. W. Butler, W. H. Venable, W. P.
                        Fishback, Eugene F. Ware, Mark L. DeMotte, Lee O. Harris, Will Cumback (a
                        second term), W. W. Pfrimmer, Minetta T. Taylor, Charles E. Banks, (two or
                        three terms). The three souvenir volumes of Proceedings
                        that were published were compiled by Miss Mary E. Cardwill, Mrs. L. May
                        Wheeler, and Mrs. M. Sears Brooks.
            
         
         
         
            Old Landmarks of 
                        Goshen
                    
            
            By H. S. K. BARTHOLOMEW
            
            The first brick house that was built in 
                        Goshen
                    , Indiana, located at 217 North Main street, is still standing. It
                    was built by Judge, Ebenezer M. Chamberlain in 1839, eight years after the city
                    was laid out. For more than a quarter of a century Judge Chamberlain was one of
                    the most prominent citizens of 
                        Elkhart
                     county. He came from Bangor, 
                        Maine
                    , in 1833. He taught school for a year in 
                        Elkhart
                    , which was then but a small hamlet. In 1834 he located in 
                        Goshen
                     and began the practice of law. He planted the first shade trees in
                    the village and induced all of the other residents to plant trees, thus
                    beginning a movement which made 
                        Goshen
                     one of the most attractive cities in the state. He also donated the
                    ground upon which the Chamberlain School is located. It was three quarters of a
                    century later that this school was named in his honor. Besides being the leading
                    lawyer, Mr. Chamberlain served as postmaster, judge of a circuit composed of
                    seven counties, and as a member of the lower branch of Congress (1853-1855).
                    Until about fifteen years ago, the house which he built was used exclusively for
                    residence purposes. It was then purchased by the late Dr. S. A. Edmands, who
                    converted it into an office. At present it is vacant.
            The building which is now used for a City Hall was built by James H. Barns,
                    senior member of the firm of Barns and DeFrees, pioneer 
                        Goshen
                     merchants. When it was completed, Mr. and Mrs. Barns had a house
                    warming which was attended by all the elite of the town. There were also a
                    number of guests from 
                        South Bend
                     among whom was Schuyler Colfax, at that time editor of the 
                        South Bend
                    
                    Register and afterward vice-president of the 
                        United States
                    . This house is located on 
                        Lincoln
                     Avenue a little less than a block west of Main Street.
            The brick residence at the northwest corner of 
                        Lincoln
                     Avenue and Third Street was built by George P. Rowell, Sr. In an
                    early day Mr. Rowell as engaged in the manufacturing of plows on quite an
                    extensive scale. At one time his factory was larger than that of James Oliver in 
                        South Bend
                     and Mr. Oliver used to come to 
                        Goshen
                     to consult with his competitor in regard to the plow business. In
                    fact Mr. Rowell claimed that he  helped to
                    give Mr. Oliver a start toward building up an industry which became world
                    famous.
            Tradition has it that there is a romance connected with the building of the
                    Rowell house. The story goes that Mr. Rowell and a young man named Dirlan were
                    rival suitors for the hand of a young lady. Mr. Dirlan won and built the brick
                    residence on the corner of 
                        Pike
                     and Third streets in 1848, which is now owned and and occupied by
                    Mrs. Grace Hawks. The next year Mr. Rowell built his residence in order to let
                    Mrs. Dirlan know that he could build a bigger house than her husband had
                    provided for her. In 1908 the Rowell house was bought by the late Charles Kohler
                    who was then mayor of 
                        Goshen
                    . He occupied it until his death and it is now owned and occupied by
                    Mrs. Kohler. The 
                        Elkhart
                     County Historical Society has long wished to secure it for a home
                    but has been unable to do so.
            There is a palatial residence on Crescent Street at the highest point in the city
                    which was constructed during the Civil War. Over forty years ago, it was
                    acquired by the late J. M. Peters, at one time city judge, and it is now
                    occupied by Miss Carrie Peters and Hal Peters, the only survivors of the Peters
                    family. This house was built by George Manahan, a druggist, once well known in
                    the city, but now almost forgotten. Not long after it was completed, this
                    pretentious home was acquired by General Milo S. Hascall, who occupied it for a
                    number of years. In an early day, the plateau on which the residence and the
                    large grounds about it are found was expected to become the aristocratic part of
                    the city, but, as has been the case in many other cities, the plans of pioneers
                    failed to materialize.
            What is now known as the Hotel Alderman, although twice remodeled, is one of 
                        Goshen
                    's historic buildings. The original building was erected
                    in 1856 by one of the county's early settlers, Major John W. Violett.
                    He came from Clarke county, 
                        Ohio
                    , in the spring of 1829, one year after the first permanent
                    settlement was made in 
                        Elkhart
                     County and one year before the County was organized. He located on
                    the west side of 
                        Elkhart
                     prairie just north of the old village of 
                        Waterford
                    . He was the first county recorder, had the first nursery in the
                    county and was for many years a prominent citizen. After the burning of the old
                    Pierce Tavern in 1854,  Mr. Violett decided
                    to build a hotel on quite an extensive scale to accommodate the traveling
                    public. His hostlery was be. gun in 1855, completed in 1856 and christened the
                    Violett House. For twenty-five years it stood as it was originally built. In
                    1881 Gen. Milo S. Hascall bought the hotel and remodeled it throughout, making
                    it one of the finest in Indiana. It attained great popularity, particularly
                    among traveling men, many of whom formed the habit of planning trips so that
                    they could spend Sunday at the General's hotel. About 1890 it was
                    bought by Former Mayor Charles B. Alderman and his son, George F. Alderman, also
                    elected mayor in later years. At present it is conducted by Mr. and Mrs. Walter
                    S. Hackett. Many great men of the state and nation have been entertained there.
                    Among the hotel's guests in the past three-quarters of a century were
                    all four of the vice-presidents furnished by Indiana, Schuyler Colfax, Thomas A. 
                        Hendricks
                    , Charles W. Fairbanks and Thomas R. 
                        Marshall
                    . Governors Oliver P. Morton, Isaac P. Gray, Claude Matthews, James
                    A. Mount, and Samuel M. Ralston stopped at the place. So too did President
                    Benjamin 
                        Harrison
                     and Senators Joseph E. McDonald, Daniel W. Voorhees, David Turpie
                    and Albert J. Beveridge. Others among the celebrities included, Gen. Lew
                    Wallace, Gen. Franz Sigel, Cassius M. 
                        Clay
                    , Gen. John B. Gordon, Henry Ward Beecher, Joseph Cook, James
                    Whitcomb Riley and Josh Billings.
            There is still standing on South Sixth Street a frame building which was erected
                    in 1832 as a Methodist church. It was the first church structure ever built in 
                        Elkhart
                     county, all religious services previous to that time having been
                    held in private homes or in taverns. In an address delivered at the cornerstone
                    laying of the present Methodist church in 1873, Hon. J. H. DeFrees thus
                    described the old church: 
                        The architecture of the building was rather a novelty. It was forty feet
                            square and about twelve feet high, with a roof so steep that a raindrop,
                            if it struck the comb, would be in danger of dividing. This building was
                            set up from the ground about three feet, upon blocks or ends of logs set
                            in the ground and not underpinned for a long time after its erection. In
                            those days we had no melodions, organs or pianos, but we most generally
                            had music made by a "pig-a-piano" that was located
                            under the floor of the building.
                        The interior finish of the church was on this wise: ceiled instead of
                            plastered; seats made out of slabs from Father Carpenter's
                            sawmill and  four sticks stuck into
                            the same for legs. The pulpit corresponded with the seats.
                            Notwithstanding all the slurs and puns that were made in regard to this
                            building, it was the largest meeting house in northern Indiana, 
                                Fort Wayne
                             not excepted. Those of us who worshipped in that peculiar
                            building enjoyed the pleasure and power of religious meetings as much or
                            more than we have ever done since. The most powerful and extensive
                            revival that ever took place in 
                                Goshen
                             was held in that old ark in the year 1840 under the
                            preaching of Brother George M. Boyd when some 150 or more were added to
                            the church.
                     For several years previous to 1840 and before the first school house
                    was erected, the church was also used for school purposes. After the Methodists
                    erected their second church in 1846, the old structure was converted into a
                    dwelling and is still so used. At present it is owned by Mrs. Mary Winterhoff.
            In 1861 Fred 
                        Jackson
                    , an early day 
                        Goshen
                     merchant, built a large two story and basement brick house on North
                    Fifth Street. At that time it was the largest residence in the town. After Mr. 
                        Jackson
                    's death it became the residence of P. C. Messick, a
                    prominent hardware merchant, and still later it was used for several years as a
                    boarding house. Twenty-five years ago it was converted into a hospital and since
                    that time has been known as 
                        Goshen
                     Hospital.
            The square brick building at the corner of 
                        Lincoln
                     Avenue and Fifth Street has been pointed out for many years as one
                    of the city's notable landmarks. The date of its erection has not
                    been ascertained but it was some time before the Civil War. It was built by the
                    late Dr. M. M. Latta, one of 
                        Elkhart
                     County's pioneer physicians. Dr. Latta was more widely
                    known than any other physician, probably more widely than any other man that
                    ever lived in 
                        Elkhart
                     County. He practiced medicine in 
                        Goshen
                     almost sixty years, locating there in 1840 and dying on
                    Thanksgiving day, 1899. For almost forty years of that period, he either rode
                    horseback or drove over the County to treat his patients. At one time he could
                    name the owner of every farm residence in a radius of twelve miles from 
                        Goshen
                    . His name is still a household word in most of the older families.
            There are several landmarks in other sections of 
                        Elkhart
                     County which have historical significance. The first frame house
                    ever erected in the county is still in use, although it has been twice
                    remodeled. This is the residence on the Colonel 
                        Jackson
                     homestead in 
                        Jackson
                     Township, a mile west of 
                        Benton
                     and a quarter of a mile west of the historic 
                        Jackson
                    
                     Cemetery. The house was begun in 1832 and
                    finished sometime the following year. The material for it was all hauled from 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . Before the house was finished, it was used several times for
                    religious services. Col. Jackson told some thing about these services in an
                    article in the 
                        Goshen
                    
                    Democrat in 1865, in which he recorded: "The first
                    sermon preached was by Elder Cory of the Presbyterian church. The place of
                    preaching was the house that the writer now resides in. The frame was up and
                    covered and weatherboarded without any floor. A few boards were laid for the
                    preacher to stand on and the hearers sat on the sleepers. The first Methodist
                    circuit rider that preached here was Erastus Felton." Here was also one
                    of the first postoffices in 
                        Elkhart
                     County and Colonel Jackson was the postmaster. However the office
                    was not in this house but in the log cabin which preceded it. It was established
                    some time in 1829. The farm on which this house stands was in the Jackson family
                    ninety-five years being owned by three generations of Jacksons.
            The old St. John's church, four miles west of 
                        Goshen
                    , in 
                        Harrison
                     township, is another landmark which is worthy of brief mention. So
                    far as is known, it is the oldest church in the county which is still used for
                    religious services. It was built in 1856 out of timbers that came from forests
                    on surrounding farms. The stones for the foundation were also obtained from the
                    vicinity. It has two doors in front, one for the use of the men and the other
                    for the women, who sat on opposite sides of the church. It was built as a
                    Lutheran church, but is now used by "old order" Dunkards.
         
         
         
            The Shipley Ancestry of 
                        Lincoln
                    's Mother
            By LOUIS A. WARREN
            
            Reverence for the burial places of those making significant contributions to our
                    national life has placed upon Indiana the responsibility of preserving and
                    beautifying the grave of the mother who gave Abraham Lincoln to America. It is
                    doubtful if there is to be found in all the country a lone woman's
                    grave which has become so sacred a shrine as the grave of Nancy Hanks Lincoln.
                    The commonwealth of Indiana is now awakened to its full responsibility as the
                    custodian of her remains.
            Another task which devolves upon the state, because of the early residence of
                    Nancy Hanks Lincoln within its borders, is the preservation in the state
                    archives of an authoritative biographical sketch of her life. The data which
                    should be assembled first is authentic information about her parents and
                    ancestors. It is the present purpose to present a brief history of her
                    mother's people, the Shipleys. The feature magazine writers and
                    biographical debunkers having had their say about the mother of Nancy Hanks,
                    possibly those who are interested may be, willing to consider the testimonies of
                    some of the members of the family from which she came.
            Many years ago Mrs. Caroline Hanks Hitchcock of 
                  Cambridge, Massachusetts
               , did an exhaustive and painstaking
                    piece of work in which she attempted to discover something about the parentage
                    of Nancy Hanks, While it must be admitted that some data was supplied to her
                    that was erroneous, she did not deserve the chastising and bitter denunciation
                    which she received at the hands of one Lincoln biographer in particular, as the
                    main thesis of her work can now be substantiated.1
            
            More recently, however, certain Hoosier historians, directly related to the
                    mother of President Lincoln, have compiled family traditions, supported by
                    authorized records, which contribute much to the task before us. Their findings
                    are supported by many testimonials originating from independent sources in
                    several different states. It was an 
                        Indianapolis
                     woman, Mrs. C. H. S. Vawter, who was responsible for the first and
                    most important discovery with reference to the history 
                  
                     1 Caroline Hanks Hitchcock, Nancy
                                Hanks: The Story of Abraham Lincoln's Mother (
                                New York
                            , 1900).
               
                     of Nancy Hanks.2
                    Through Mrs. Vawter's insistence and encouragement her Uncle,
                    Mitchell Thompson, urged the county clerk of 
                        Washington
                     County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , to search for the marriage records of Thomas Lincoln and Nancy
                    Hanks. The finding of the marriage certificate put a stop to the circulation of
                    stories to the effect that the parents of Lincoln were never legally married.
            Another fact of importance which was learned from the marriage papers was the
                    evidence that Richard Berry was the guardian of Nancy Hanks at the time of her
                    marriage. The signature of Berry supported the tradition that Mrs. Vawter had
                    recorded in a letter as early as 1873 when she urged that the mother of Nancy
                    Hanks and the wife of the elder Richard Berry were sisters. On September 14,
                    1895, Mrs. Vawter wrote to Mrs. Hitchcock: "Nancy Hanks'
                    mother's name before marriage was Shipley and she was a Virginian.
                    There were, I think, six sisters in the Shipley family but I only remember the
                    names of the husbands of two [three]: Richard Berry (Sr.) and Robert Mitchell,
                    my great-grandfather, and Mr. Hanks, Nancy's father."3
            
            No one can dispute the fact that the name of a Richard Berry appears on the
                    marriage bond and that he signed as guardian of Nancy Hanks. 
                        Kentucky
                     laws regarding the appointment of guardians support the tradition
                    that Berry was a relative of Nancy Hanks. The Richard Berry who married Rachel
                    Shipley was dead by 1797 and his will names his wife, Rachel, and several
                    children including a son, Richard.4 It was this Richard
                    Berry, Jr., who was the guardian of Nancy Hanks at the time of her marriage.
            Richard Berry, Jr., and Polly Ewing were married in Mercer County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , on October 10, 1794.5 One of
                    Richard's children, Robert Mitchell Berry, died in Callaway County 
                        Missouri
                    , in 1913, at the age of ninety-five years. This paragraph appeared
                    in the newspaper obituary notice: 
                        His father [Richard Berry, Jr.] was a man of considerable wealth, and
                            while a resident of 
                                Kentucky
                             reared Nancy Hanks, the mother of Abraham Lincoln and at
                            her wedding signed the marriage bond of her husband.6
                  
                        
                     
                        2 Grace Vawter Bucknell, History
                                    of the Vawter Family, 142-144.
                     
                        3 Mrs. Vawter's letter is in the
                                files of the Lincoln Life Foundation, 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                , Ind.
                     
                        4
                                
                                    Washington
                                 County (Ky.) Court Will Book, 134.
                     
                        5
                                
                                    Washington
                                 County (Ky.) Court Marriage Register.
                     
                        6 Clippings from a local newspaper in the
                                files of the Lincoln Life Foundation. 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                , Indiana.
                  
                    
            
            
            Another descendant of this same Richard Berry, Jr., testifies that
                    "Richard Berry, Sr., married a Shipley who was a sister of Nancy Hanks 
                        Lincoln
                    's mother. They took little Nancy to live with them when
                    she was left an orphan but she later went to live in the home of Richard Berry,
                        Jr."7 There is an abundance of evidence to
                    prove that the wife of Richard Berry, Sr., was a Rachel Shipley. One grandchild
                    was named Berry Shipley Redding. Edward Shipley's name appears in the
                    settlement of the estate of John Berry, oldest son of Richard Berry, Sr.8
            
            Evidence that the mother of Nancy Hanks was a sister of Rachel Shipley, who
                    married Richard Berry, Sr., comes down through several branches of the Berry
                    family who have testified to the authenticity of this fact. While it is not the
                    purpose of this paper to discuss the home environment of Nancy Hanks during the
                    years when she was growing to maturity, it is sufficient to say that it was one
                    of culture and refinement and far different from the picture so often drawn of
                    her early years.
            Some time after Rachel Berry moved to 
                        Kentucky
                     her sister, Naomi Shipley Mitchell, followed her. Naomi was the
                    wife of Robert Mitchell. She was massacred by the Indians when the family was
                    attacked while en route to 
                        Kentucky
                    . Her daughter, Sarah Shipley Mitchell, named for her
                    mother's people, was captured by the Indians during the same attack
                    and a few years later upon having been returned to her relatives became the
                    constant associate of Nancy Hanks, her first cousin. It was for this Sarah
                    Shipley Mitchell that Nancy Hanks most likely named her first child, Sarah
                    Lincoln. It is interesting also that Sarah Mitchell who married John Thompson
                    named one of her daughters, Nancy. A nephew of Sarah Shipley Mitchell was named
                    Tom Shipley Mitchell.
            Another former 
                        Indianapolis
                     woman, Miss Kate Thompson, has done more original research work on
                    the Mitchell-Shipley connections than anyone else and the author on several
                    occasions through interviews and correspondence has been assisted and encouraged
                    by her findings. An old Mitchell Bible is still extant which reveals that Naomi,
                    wife of Robert Mitchell, was born April 26, 1748, and that the second child was
                        
                  
                     7 Mary E. Hayes Moutrey to the writer, March 24,
                            1931.
                  
                     8 Mercer County (Ky.) Will Book II, 273.
               
                     born April 26,1773. Sarah S. Mitchell, her
                    daughter, was born in 
                        North Carolina
                    .9
            
            Another one of the Shipley sisters that we have been able to trace is Ann who
                    married David McCord. The following family tradition comes from 
                        Rockville
                    , Indiana: "My husband's grandfather, James
                    McCord, was a son of David and Ann Shipley McCord and was five years old when
                    they made the trip from 
                        North Carolina
                     to 
                        Kentucky
                    …. We have been told that there were five Shipley
                    brothers in the Revolution."10 Members of this
                    family have always known of their relationship to Abraham Lincoln. Many
                    interesting traditions of the 
                        North Carolina
                     days have been preserved by them. Further identification of this
                    Ann Shipley comes from a resident of 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana, who says: "My grandmother was Jane Caldwell
                    McCord and I find her grandfather was David McCord whose wife was Ann Shipley.
                    Their eldest son was born October 5, 1766."11
            
            The search for the fourth Shipley sister leads also to 
                        North Carolina
                    . Here one finds that Margaret Shipley married Robert Sloan. A
                    great-granddaughter of Margaret writes: "Margaret Shipley, my great
                    grandmother, first married Robert Sloan who was killed or died in the
                    Revolutionary War."12 In another letter the same
                    person records that "Abraham Lincoln's grandmother was a
                    Shipley and married a Hanks. Her daughter, Nancy Hanks, went to relatives in 
                        Kentucky
                     and married a Lincoln. Abraham Lincoln's grandmother and
                    my great-grandmother, Margaret Shipley, were sisters."13 It does not seem that there can be any doubt about the relationship of
                    four Shipley sisters who were daughters of Robert and Sarah Shipley.
            It will be noted that in all of these traditions about the four Shipley sisters
                    there is always the same story about a fifth sister, Lucy, who married a Hanks
                    said to be James Hanks. It will also be observed that tradition claims she was a
                    widow before reaching 
                        Kentucky
                     and had a daughter, Nancy, who married a Lincoln. Evidence from
                    many sources now seems to confirm 
                  
                     9 Vital Statistics for 
                                Washington
                             County (Ky.), 
                                Kentucky
                             State Historical Society Archives.
                  
                     10 Mrs. Oscar McCord to the writer, July 1, 1929.
                  
                     11 R. C. Sampson to the writer, May 27, 1929.
                  
                     12 Mary Ellen Armstrong to the writer, March 24,
                            1933.
                  
                     13 Miss Armstrong to the writer, Feb. 29,
                        1933.
               
                     the fact that Lucy Shipley, daughter of
                    Robert Shipley, who became the wife of James Hanks was the mother of Nancy
                    Hanks.. Lucy Shipley's sister, Naomi, was born April 26, 1748; her
                    sister Ann's first child was born in 1766; her sister
                    Rachel's third child was married in 1781. Lucy was probably one of
                    the youngest children, as her daughter, Nancy, was born not much earlier than
                    1785.
            The Beech Fork community in 
                        Washington
                     County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , where Richard Berry, Sr., uncle of Nancy Hanks, first settled, was
                    also the home community of the Widow Lincoln and her five orphan children,
                    Thomas Lincoln, the youngest son, becoming the playmate of Nancy Hanks who lived
                    with the Berry's but a short distance away. In this community there
                    also lived the Mitchells, Brumfields, and other relatives, and in the adjacent
                    community on Doctor's Fork lived Edward and George Shipley, the
                    Hankses, Sparrows, and other relatives. Richard Berry, Sr., also owned a farm on
                    Doctor's Fork where his oldest son, John, lived.
            When Lucy Shipley Hanks reached 
                        Kentucky
                    , she married as her second husband, Henry Sparrow, and at this time
                    made affidavit that she was above twenty-one years of age and her
                    brother-in-law, Robert Mitchell, testified to this fact. It was sometime after
                    this second marriage that her daughter, Nancy, went to live with her Uncle and
                    Aunt, Richard and Rachel Berry.14 The
                    Mercer County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , census for the year 1810 reveals that Lucy was over 45 years of
                    age at that time. This would place her birth as early as 1765. That she was
                    living as late as 1820 is revealed by the census of that year. She is said to
                    have passed away about 1825, which would have made her at least sixty years old
                    at that time and probably older.
            It appears from the census of 1810 that Lucy had nine children by Henry Sparrow,
                    five boys and four girls. Two of the boys became ministers and there is nothing
                    but words of commendation for the wholesome atmosphere of her home and the
                    integrity of her children.15
            
            The Shipleys and their kinsmen came to 
                        Washington
                     County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , from Mecklenburg County, 
                        North Carolina
                    , where we find that Robert and Sarah Shipley were established 
                  
                     14 Mercer County (Ky.), Marriage Register, 1790.
                  
                     15 Mercer County Tax Reports, 
                                Kentucky
                             State Historical Society Archives.
               
                     and where they continued to live after
                    their children had migrated. Correspondence from a member of the Shipley family
                    still living near the old home definitely locates the Shipley residence in 
                        North Carolina
                    : "Robert Mitchell and Robert Sloan both of whom married
                    Shipleys lived near the Ca tawba River on the Mecklenburg side. The Berrys were
                    on the Western or Gaston side of the river. All these people were [earlier]
                    friends and neighbors in 
                        Virginia
                    ."16
            
            Other descendants of Robert Sloan and his wife, Margaret Shipley, have preserved
                    traditions about the Shipley family A great-great-granddaughter of Margaret
                    Shipley Sloan who lives in 
                        North Carolina
                     not far from where the Shipleys settle has this to say about the
                    family: "The Shipleys were here, were know, and they kept coming and
                    going until after the revolved tion. A few lingered, others went to 
                        Kentucky
                    . It is known positively that two members of the Hanks family,
                    Richard (Dickey) and James, were here and heads of families in 1790, This is
                    proven by the census. James is supposed by some to have been the father of
                        Nancy."17
            
            The evidence that the residence of the Shipleys was in Mecklenburg County, 
                        North Carolina
                    , is not based entirely on tradition. The court records affirm the
                    location of the residence as well as the family contacts. On April 18, 1772,
                    Robert Shipley purchased a tract of land from David McCord and Annie, his wife.
                    Edward and George Shipley were witnesses to the transaction. Robert Mitchell
                    also purchased land from McCord. Robert Shipley sold the land acquired from
                    McCord in 1789.
            With equal certainty the 
                        North Carolina
                     colony of Shipleys can be traced back to 
                        Bedford
                     County, 
                        Virginia
                    . Robert and Sarah Shipley, parents of the Shipley daughters, left 
                        Bedford
                     County for 
                        North Carolina
                     in 1771 as is evident from records in the 
                        Bedford
                     County Court. Although we know that Robert's
                    wife's first name was Sarah, we do not know her maiden name, and,
                    while we have discovered the names of five of their daughters, the names of
                    their sons are not certainly known, although it appears that Robert, Jr.,
                    Edward, and George were their children.
            Robert Shipley's name first appears on the 
                        Virginia
                     Records in 1750 where it is found on a commissioner's
                    book in Lunenburg 
                  
                     16 Mrs. Minnie S. Puett to the writer, April 27,
                            1933.
                  
                     17 Mrs. Puett to the writer, March 28,
                        1933.
               
                     County as a tithable, indicating he was
                    over twenty-one years of age, and the head of a family. William Caldwell
                    according to the court order was appointed to make out the tax list for
                    Lunenburg County in the territory "from Little Roanoke up the
                    Fork." The list contained among others the names of Robert Shipley,
                    Richard Berry, and Robert Mitchell. Richard Berry married Rachel Shipley,
                    daughter of Robert Shipley, and Robert Mitchell married Naomi Shipley,
                    Rachel's sister, as indicated earlier in this paper. It is also
                    interesting to note that a John Caldwell was appointed administrator of the
                    estate of the pioneer Abraham Lincoln who died in 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1786, the Caldwells then having moved to 
                        Washington
                     County, 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            Another list giving the names of those subject to military call in 1758 in
                    Lunenburg County contains the name of Robert Shipley, who in 1765 purchased a
                    tract of land in Lunenburg County. Part of this land was sold in 1767, and on
                    April 30, 1771, Robert and his wife, Sarah, sold the remaining 164 acres to
                    Daniel Mitchell. It will be recalled that Naomi Shipley married Robert Mitchell
                    and that Richard Berry's oldest son, John, married Ann Mitchell.
            On September 16, 1765, Robert Shipley entered 314 acres of land on Little Falling
                    River then in Lunenburg County, but, with the formation of 
                        Bedford
                     County within its boundaries, the land fell within the newly
                    organized county.18 Here also lived the Mitchells, Berrys,
                    Hankses, and other families which we find in both the 
                        North Carolina
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                     communities where these related groups settled.
            When 
                        Campbell
                     County, 
                        Virginia
                    , was cut off from 
                        Bedford
                    , many of these families found their land within the new county and
                    in the Deed Books of the court we find land transactions of the Hankses,
                    Mitchells, Prewitts, etc., which show that their lands were adjacent. In
                    Charlotte County also the Hankses, Berrys, Mitchells, etc., are found in the
                    same general community.
            Just when Robert Shipley moved to 
                        Virginia
                     we do not know but the traditions in the various branches of the
                    family 
                  
                     18 Book of Patents, 1764-1767, State House,
                                    
                        Richmond,
                                    Va
                     .
               
                     are agreed that he migrated to 
                        Virginia
                     from 
                        Maryland
                    .19 The 
                        Maryland
                     records prove conclusively that the Robert Shipley of 
                        Bedford
                     County, 
                        Virginia
                    , was a son of Robert Shipley, Sr., of Ann Arundel County, 
                        Maryland
                    , who named the following children in his will in 1767: Charles,
                    Robert, Ruth (or Rachel), Ketura, Elizabeth, Sarah, Lois, George, and William.
                    The last named sons, William and George, were made executors of their
                    father's estate. It is significant to note that the two youngest sons
                    were made executors, suggesting that the older sons were not available for this
                    service. The migration of the older sons, Charles and Robert, is in accord with
                    the family tradition. Later on George is said to have migrated so that William
                    was eventually the only son to remain in 
                        Maryland
                    .
            It is very fortunate that the births of all of these children are recorded in the
                    records of Christ Church, Queen Caroline Parrish, as we are able to definitely
                    establish the date of Robert Shipley's birth as October 9, 1713.
                    Robert Shipley was named for his father, Robert Shipley, Sr., whose
                    wife's name was Elizabeth, but there is a possibility that Robert,
                    Sr. was married twice. Robert Shipley, Sr., was a member of Christ's
                    Church, Queen Caroline Parrish, and in 1736 he held pew No. 11. It is
                    interesting to note that a William Hanks was in possession of pew No. 28.
                    Shipley was a member of the first vestry of the church.
            It must be something more than a coincidence that the Shipleys and Hanks families
                    are found associated in 
                        Maryland
                     as we find they were also in the same communities in
                            
                  Virginia, North Carolina
               , and 
                        Kentucky
                    . It would not be surprising if we should find that in William Hanks
                    of 
                        Maryland
                     we have an ancestor of President Lincoln although no evidence of
                    this connection is available.
            Robert Shipley, Sr., received a tract of land from the estate of his father, Adam
                    Shipley, consisting of 240 acres and the farm was called
                    "Shipley's discovery." It was on the Patopsco River
                    south of Great Falls. This land was surveyed in 1724. In 1742 Robert sold 140
                    acres to Nathan Barnes and two years later he sold the remaining 110 acres to
                    Peter Porter. 
                  
                     19 Two women, Mrs. L. O. White of Brookline, Mass.
                            and Mrs. J. F. Rudolph of 
                                Warren
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            , the latter related to the Hanks family, have done much
                            original research work on the Shipley and Hanks connections in 
                                Maryland
                             and 
                                Virginia
                             and the author is greatly indebted to them. Among the
                            members of the Shipley family who have contributed information about the
                            family in 
                                Maryland
                             are Mrs. Winchester Britton, Mrs. Marvin R. Shipley, and
                            Miss Aramintia Shipley.
               
                     The elder Shipley then acquired a large
                    farm near Sykesville, 
                        Maryland
                    , and it was here that he made his home the rest of his life.
            This brings us back to the first man, in America, to whom the Lincoln branch of
                    the Shipley family traces its ancestry. His name was Adam Shipley and he settled
                    in 
                        Maryland
                     in 1668, not far from Annapolis. In 1681 a tract of land was
                    surveyed for him bordering on the Severn River. It consisted of 200 acres and
                    was called "Shipley's Choice."
            Adam's wife was named Lois and she died a widow in 1725. How many
                    years before this Adam passed away is not known. Tradition claims there were
                    nine sons and two daughters born to Adam and Lois Shipley. The names of but
                    three of them are known: Richard, Robert, and Lois.
            The line of descent from Adam Shipley to Abraham Lincoln as it has now been
                    traced follows: Adam Shipley and wife, Lois; Robert Shipley, Sr., and wife,
                    Elizabeth; Robert Shipley, Jr., and wife, Sarah; Lucy Shipley and husband, James
                    Hanks; Nancy Hanks and husband, Thomas Lincoln; Abraham Lincoln.
            While it appears that Abraham Lincoln is a descendant of Adam Shipley of the 
                        Maryland
                     branch of the American Ship-leys, this discussion of the Shipley
                    family may properly conclude with a summary of the other family groups and the
                    states where they seem to have originated: 
                        Massachusetts
                     Branch—John and Ann Shipley who settled at 
                        Salem
                     in 1683; 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Branch—William and Elizabeth Shipley who lived at 
                        Springfield
                    , 
                        Delaware
                     County, as early as 1729; 
                        New Jersey
                     Branch—Samuel Shipley, who was born in 
                        England
                     in 1831, but who did not arrive in America until some years later; 
                        Virginia
                     Branch—John and Mary Shipley who settled in Gloucester
                    County in 1668.
            There were many Shipley families in Indiana during pioneer days. Some of them and
                    the counties in which they lived are herewith appended together with the dates
                    of the records which establish their residence in Indiana.
            
                    
                  
                            Fayette
                         County: Philip, 1819; Margaret, 1821; Elizabeth, 1924; Rebecca,
                        1825; Peter, 1826; Peter, 1830; Thomas, 1830; Harmon, 1830; Peter, 1830.
                    
                    
                  
                            Monroe
                         County: Ruben, 1835; Catinah, 1840; Prudence, 1840; Lucy Ann,
                        1849.
                    
                  
                            Morgan
                         County: Jesse, 1830; Benjamin, 1830; Edward, 1830; William,
                        1830; Talbott, 1832; James, 1835; Benjamin, 1838; Emily, 1839; Margaret,
                        1841; Jacob, no date.
                    
                  
                            Parke
                         County: Cynthia Ann, 1838; Violet, 1839; Mary, 1840.
                    
                  
                            Putnam
                         County: Daniel, 1830; William, 1838; Mathias,—;
                        Jesse I., 1841; Daniel C., 1841; Geo, W., 1851; John, 1851; Richard, 1851
                    
                  
                            Rush
                         County: Charles, 1857; Thomas, 1849; George, 1830; Jas. W.,
                        —; Chas. E.—.
                    
                  
                            Sullivan
                        : Jared, 1830.
                    
                  
                            Tippecanoe
                        : Mary Ann, 1832; Lavina, 1848.
                    
                  
                            Vigo
                        : Michael, 1828.
                    
                  
                            Warren
                        : Johnathan, 1830.
                
         
         
         
            Caleb Blood Smith1
            
            By LOUIS J. BAILEY
            
            Ten citizens of Indiana have sat in the Cabinets of our Presidents. Hugh
                    McCulloch was twice called to the Treasury, first by Lincoln and again by Hayes,
                    while Harry S. New served under both Harding and Coolidge as Postmaster General.
                    Mr. McCulloch's term under Lincoln lasted only five weeks, being
                    severed by the untimely death of Lincoln, but he remained, a strong figure,
                    through the 
                        Johnson
                     Administration. The first to be invited to a Cabinet post from
                    Indiana was Caleb Blood Smith. He was made Secretary of the Interior by Lincoln
                    in 1861, when Indiana had been a state for forty-five years and Mr. Smith
                    himself had been prominent in the state for thirty years.2
            
            Caleb B. Smith was born in 
                  Boston, Massachusetts
               , April 16, 1808. In 1814, when he was about
                    six years old, his parents moved to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , where he grew up and where he was influenced by the associations
                    of his boyhood. 
                        Cincinnati
                     at that time was a city of 10,000 inhabitants but was making
                    strides in her claim to be the Queen City of the West. At the age of fifteen,
                    young Caleb entered 
                        Cincinnati
                     College. After two years he left to attend 
                        Miami
                     University at 
                        Oxford
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , which was then becoming known as a leading college in the western
                    country. He was at 
                        Miami
                     from 1825 to 1827, when he returned to his home and commenced the
                    study of law. Whether from realizing that the profession was well crowded in the
                    city, or from wishing a new field and a new state, he removed to 
                        Connersville
                     in Indiana in the fall of 1827 and applied to Oliver H. Smith for
                    the privilege of reading law in his office. Thirty years later when Oliver H.
                    Smith, who in the meantime had served a term in the 
                        United States
                     Senate, was writing his Early Indiana Trials and
                        Sketches, he recalled the advent of Caleb Smith in the following
                    passage: 
                        One day I was sitting in my office at 
                                Connersville
                             when there entered a small youth, about five feet eight
                            inches high, large head, thin brown hair, light blue eyes, high,
                            capacious forehead, and good features, and introduced himself as Caleb
                            B. Smith, from 
                                Cincinnati
                            . He stated his business in a lisping tone He had come to
                            read law with me, if I could 
                        
                           1 This paper in a longer form was read
                                    before the Century Club of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    .
                        
                           2Mr. Smith was strongly urged upon General
                                    Taylor as Postmaster General in 1848, but was not
                                appointed.
                     
                             receive him. I assented to his
                            wishes, and he remained with me until he was admitted to practice, and
                            commenced his professional, as well as political career, at 
                                Connersville
                            . He rose rapidly at the bar, was remarkably fluent, rapid,
                            and eloquent before the jury, never at a loss for ideas or words to
                            express them; if he had a fault as an advocate, it was that he suffered
                            his nature to press forward his ideas for utterance faster than the
                            minds of the jurors were prepared to receive them; still he was very
                            successful before the Court and jury….3
                  
                    
            
            In 1828, at the age of twenty, he had completed his law studies. He then began to
                    practice in the local circuit, which embraced the counties of 
                        Fayette
                    , 
                        Union
                    , 
                        Rush
                    , 
                        Henry
                     and 
                        Wayne
                    . At that time (Census of 1830) 
                        Fayette
                     County was more populous than 
                        Marion
                    , the figures being 9,112 to 7,181; the most populous county in the
                    state at that date was 
                        Dearborn
                     with Lawrenceburgh as county seat which had a population of 14,573; 
                        Jefferson
                     County with 
                        Madison
                     was second with 11,465; while 
                        Franklin
                     County with 
                        Brookville
                     had 10,199. The total population of the state in 1830 was 341,582.
                    The Indiana Gazeteer of 1833 gives the population of 
                        Connersville
                     as 500 and says it comprised seven mercantile stores one drug
                    store, four taverns, had four physicians, four lawyers, and two printing
                    offices, besides mechanics of all kinds. William Dudley Foulke in an account of
                    lawyer's ways of the period says that "the methods of
                    practice in the village [
                        Centerville
                    ] were quite different from those in large cities. Court was in
                    session only a small part of the time. Every morning the bar of the county would
                    assemble at an early hour to make up the issues and attend to matters of
                    practice preliminary to trial. As soon as these were disposed of the trials
                    would begin, and the lawyers not engaged in them would congregate in a room
                    adjoining the court house, or in the office of one of the attorneys across the
                    street, and would there discuss the topics of the day."4
            
            The Gazeteer may have connected the lawyers and printing
                    presses because the lawyers were the citizens most intrested in the
                    "topics of the day" and were often connected with starting
                    newspapers. The 
                        Fayette
                    
                    Observer was started in 1826, but was purchased in 1830 by
                    Samuel W. Parker, who had been writing editorials for the paper while teaching
                    school and reading law in the office of Oliver H. Smith. Parker brought out a
                        
                  
                     3 Oliver H. Smith, Early Indiana
                                Trials and Sketches (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1858), 408.
                  
                     4 Foulke, "Charles H. Burchenal"
                            in The Indianian, V, 358.
               
                     new paper on May 22,1830, called the Political Clarion which was in every sense a party organ,
                    carrying at its head a lengthy motto from Alexander Hamilton and giving hearty
                    and unwavering support to Henry Clay. The Clarion lasted just
                    two years and was succeeded by the Indiana Sentinel, the first
                    number of which appeared on June 2, 1832, being edited and published by Caleb B.
                    Smith and Matthew R. Hull. Hull, like Smith, was a man of ability and the result
                    was a spirited paper, Whig to the core, as may be seen from the following sample
                    editorial published in the fall of 1832 when Henry Clay was opposing 
                        Jackson
                    's election to a second term.
            
                    In our prospectus we pledged ourselves to support a system of Internal
                        Improvements, and to advocate the re-chartering of the 
                            United States
                         Bank. We believed then as we do now, that those are measures of
                        vital importance to this country, and that the interests of the people call
                        in the most emphatic terms for their support. In order to sustain those
                        measures it is necessary to support for the Presidency, such an individual
                        as will be favorable to their adoption. We would not support those measures
                        without opposing for the Presidency an individual who might be opposed to
                        them. It is for this reason that we have deemed it our duty to oppose the
                        re-election of Gen. Jackson…. In the event of his re-election
                        that system of internal improvements from which we have heretofore derived
                        the most incalculable benefits. must be destroyed. The 
                            United States
                         Bank must be prostrated, $30,000,000 must be
                        withdrawn from the circulation of the western country, the
                        farmer's pork, his beef, corn, whisky, plow-horses, cattle, and
                        in fact every article produced in the West must depreciate in value at least
                        25 per cent, and the sources of our wealth and national prosperity must be
                        dried up…. His attempt to destroy the Bank of the 
                            United States
                         must if it succeeds destroy our commerce, produce universal
                        depression in all our markets, and render the poor and industrious part of
                        the community a prey to the extortions of usurers and sharpers. His utter
                        contempt of the Supreme Court of the 
                            United States
                        , his disregard of its decisions and his declarations that he is
                        entirely independent of its authority, manifest a disposition to assume
                        arbitrary and unlimited power, and would eventually, if contenanced by the
                        people, destroy that invaluable institution, which may be regarded as the
                        key-stone of the arch of our liberties…. It is then against such
                        doctrines and measures as these, and many others supported by Gen. Jackson,
                        that we contend.5
               
                
            Smith severed his connection with the Sentinel in May, 1833,
                    and the paper was published for several years by Mr. Hull alone. Shortly before
                    Smith took leave of the paper, 
                  
                     5
                            Indiana Sentinel (
                                Connersville
                            ), Oct. 13, 1832. In 1832 
                                Clay
                             was the candidate of the National Republican party. The
                            Whig party was born in 1834.
               
                     there appeared a little editorial entitled
                    "Our home", which shows conditions in 
                        Connersville
                     at the beginning of that decade.
            
                    This place is truly in a flourishing condition. The citizens are quite as
                        industrious as any others in the great West; and complete marks of their
                        persevering habits are displayed on every street. New houses are in
                        successive building; and the hum and buzz of business is made to resound in
                        the distant valley, and to the approaching traveler bespeaks the industry of
                        mechanics. Our merchants are receiving daily thousands of dollars worth of
                        goods. The spring sales progress with much vigor, which makes the active
                        salesman skip the counter with a business like spirit. Our physicians (poor
                        fellows) have but little to do; they droop their heads beneath the influence
                        of general health. Our streets present a lively picture of enterprise and
                        industry. While other presses are falling out with their subscribers, and
                        placing their names on the black list, the Sentinel still
                        holds an undiminished patronage, and its conductors continue, daily, to
                        place good names on their white list. All this prosperity we owe, in a great
                        measure, to the farmers of Indiana—"the staff of
                        life." But a few years of such prosperity, and 
                            Connersville
                         will become the most flourishing village in the Western
                            country.6
               
                
            An interest in "topics of the day" led most of the lawyers into
                    the field of politics whether or not journalism was included. In 1831, though
                    only a four-year resident of the county, Smith offered himself as a candidate
                    for the state legislature but was defeated. Perhaps in 1833 his newspaper
                    connection made him more effective, for in that year, he was elected to the
                    House for the first time. He was re-elected in 1834, as he was again in 1835 and
                    in 1836. In 1837 and 1838 he was Fund Commissioner, but was elected to the House
                    for the fifth time in 1839.
            During these years the internal improvements question was not only the leading
                    but almost the only question that agitated the people of the state. The Whig
                    party was generally made up of the more conservative, influential and prosperous
                    class and took the lead in seeking improvements. The great need was access to
                    markets for the products of the farms and easier and cheaper importation of the
                    necessaries not locally produced.
            Farmers were gathering large crops of food Supplies, but there was no way to get
                    them to markets where satisfactory prices could be obtained. Hogs and cattle had
                    to be driven on foot to the Ohio River. Corn was sold at
                    ten and fifteen cents 
                  
                     6
                            History of 
                                    Fayette
                                 County (1885), 143.
               
                     in the interior, but was worth forty cents
                    on the Ohio River, and sixty cents on the Atlantic coast.
                    The flatboat trade to 
                        New Orleans
                     had helped somewhat in the Southern counties, but the central and
                    northern section was still inaccessible.
            The National Road from the East had been surveyed through Indiana and was slowly
                    being finished across 
                        Ohio
                    . The 
                        Michigan
                     road to 
                        South Bend
                     and 
                        Michigan
                     City connecting into 
                        Chicago
                     was started in 1830 but made slow progress. The Erie Canal in 
                        New York
                     had been completed to Buffalo in 1825 and now the state of 
                        Ohio
                     was advocating canals and had started some. To connect with Lake
                    Erie and the eastern markets a canal from Ft. 
                        Wayne
                     to 
                        Toledo
                     had been projected.
            With the help of the Federal government, which set aside alternate sections of
                    land on each side of the canal route to be sold for the building of the canal,
                    and of the state of 
                        Ohio
                     in building the connection from 
                        Toledo
                     in that state, canal boats were actually running west of Ft. 
                        Wayne
                     on the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal in 1832. Railroads had also begun to make their
                    appearance in the East and complicated the situation as they had their friends
                    who looked upon the building of railroads in the West as the best solution of
                    transportation problems. The 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     railroad was organized in the east in 1827 and construction started
                    in 1828. Western states were becoming more and more interested in the
                    possibilities of building railroad lines.
            Mr. Smith was an earnest advocate of internal improvements and a staunch
                    supporter of Governor Noah Noble, who urged and directed the movement. One of
                    the first difficulties the advocates had to contend against was the doubt and
                    uncertainty as to whether the character of the land did not render it impossible
                    to construct works of transportation at all, or at only a ruinous expense. The
                    Legislature of 1835 accordingly passed what was known as the Survey Law, which
                    provided appropriations for the survey and determination of the cost on a number
                    of different projects—highways, canals, and railroads. After the bill
                    had been passed and signed, it was discovered that there was not an engineer in
                    the state capable and available that could make the survey.
            Governor Noble decided to send to the War Department at 
                        Washington
                     and ask for a detail of engineer's from the department
                    to carry out the surveys. He asked Caleb Smith to act as  the special envoy for that purpose. In connection
                    with this, M. L. Bundy, of Newcastle, tells the following story which he got
                    from Smith: 
                        On reaching 
                                Washington
                             he [Smith] called on General Cass, who was then the war
                            secretary, and made his business known, but was promptly informed by the
                            secretary that it could not be done. He then called on General Tipton,
                            as one of our Senators, and stated his mission and what the Secretary
                            had said. Tipton said, "Mr. Smith, come here tomorrow morning
                            and I will go with you to the war office." At the appointed
                            time they called, found Cass at his desk, and Tipton opened the
                            conversation by renewing the request for engineers, but the secretary
                            shook his head and declared he could not do it. Tipton> then got up and
                            went toward Cass and as he did so uttered these words, "General
                            Cass, I tell you by — it must be done." The
                            secretary studied a moment, then rang his bell for the chief clerk and
                            the detail was at once made out. Smith used to tell the story to
                            illustrate what forcible language and earnestness would accomplish, as
                            well as the kind of man Tipton was.7
                  
                     Whether this account is accurate or not, Col. Howard Stansbury with
                    several engineers from the Department of War were obtained, made their surveys
                    and the Governor submitted their reports to the next session of the Legislature
                    in 1835-1836.
            Cabel B. Smith was elected to the lower house for the third time in 1835, and had
                    the unusual distinction (for that period at least) of being elected Speaker of
                    the house on the first ballot. The passage of the great internal improvements
                    measure, known as the "Mammoth Bill", was the, main business
                    of the Assembly during the session of 1835-1836. It took considerable jockeying
                    and compromising to satisfy the various interests of the state and convince
                    enough people in each section that they were not being neglected. Under the bill
                    that was passed, a system of public works was to be undertaken, the cost of
                    which was to be met by extensive sales of state bonds. Work on various roads and
                    canals, including a railroad from 
                        Madison
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was to be taken up and the construction of all the works carried
                    on simultaneously. The great crash, financial and economic, that followed in
                    1837, the effects of which lasted for six years, caught the state with many
                    commitments. It was impossible to meet even the interest on outstanding bonds
                    from incoming taxes for several years.
            The internal improvement policy was at first intrusted to a Board of Internal
                    Improvements, which was later replaced by 
                  
                     7 M. L. Bundy, "lion. Caleb B.
                            Smith," in The Indianian, V, 231.
               
                     a group of three Fund Commissioners.
                    Speaker of the house when the "Mammoth Bill" was passed, Smith
                    later became one of the Fund Commissioners. These Commissioners were compelled
                    to handle a difficult task—one in which anything that could be
                    accomplished was likely to be very unsatisfactory to the people. The debt of the
                    state mounted rapidly though most of the public works had to be abandoned. When
                    Smith resigned his office as Fund Commissioner in 1839, the best that could be
                    said of him was that "he persevered in his efforts… in spite
                    of denunciation and slander, for there was not an element of the coward in his
                    composition, and.. completed as far as possible what he had
                        undertaken."8
            
            In 1836, Mr. Smith was reelected to his seat in the house of representatives.
                    Again he was chosen Speaker, this time by a large majority. Early in the session
                    of 1836-1837, the Legislature elected Oliver H. Smith to the 
                        United States
                     Senate. The new Whig party controlled the General Assembly but the
                    Whig members could not unite on a candidate. Several ballots were necessary to a
                    choice, the voting taking place on December 8, 1836. On the first seven ballots
                    Governor Noah Noble led, but at the climax of his strength (fifth ballot) lacked
                    nine of obtaining a majority. Most of the remaining members voted either for
                    Oliver H. Smith or William Hendricks,9 the latter a
                    candidate to succeed himself. Unable to elect Senator Hendricks, his supporters
                    largely turned to Smith who was elected on the ninth ballot.10 Caleb B. Smith presided over the joint session of the two houses,
                    during the fight which resulted in a victory for his earliest Indiana friend and
                    legal preceptor, Oliver H. Smith.
            In 1839 Caleb B. Smith was elected for the fifth time to the Indiana house of
                    representatives. During the session which followed he was made chairman of the
                    Committee on Canals. By this time the presidential contest was claiming much of
                    his attention. He was nominated as an elector on the Harrison ticket in 1840,
                    and contributed powerfully to the success of the Whigs in the great
                    "hard cider and log cabin" campaign. Harrison carried the
                    state over Van Buren by a vote of 65,276 to 51,695.
            
               
                  8
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal (daily), Jan. 9, 1864.
               
                  9 William 
                            Hendricks
                         was Governor of Indiana from 1822 to 1825, when he resigned to
                        become 
                            United States
                         Senator, serving two terms. He had been a member of the
                        national House from Indiana before he became Governor.
               
                  10
                        House Journal (Indiana), 1836-7, 36-39.
            
            
            The contest of 1840 left Mr. Smith with a growing interest in national politics.
                    His speeches throughout Indiana gave him a command of a new field and gained him
                    wider recognition. In 1841 he ran for Congress but was defeated because of an
                    embarrassment of riches in Whig candidates. Jonathan McCarty forced himself into
                    the contest in the fourth district and against two Whig candidates Andrew
                    Kennedy, the Democratic candidate, won handsomely. As Kennedy afterwards
                    remarked, "he could have beaten half a dozen just as easily".
                    In 1843, however, Smith had a clear field in his district (which had been
                    modified since 1841) and was elected.11 Only one other Whig
                    was elected to the national House from Indiana in that year. The Democrats were
                    coming into power again but in 1845 Mr. Smith was elected and again was one of
                    the two Whigs in the Indiana delegation. Mr. Smith defeated John Finley, 4,863
                    votes to 3,201, while his old newspaper partner, M. R. Hull, ran as a Liberty
                    Party candidate with 553 votes. In 1847 Mr. Smith defeated Charles H. Test by a
                    majority of 1,368, and was accompanied to Washington by three other Whigs in a
                    delegation of ten. Mr. Smith refused to be a candidate in 1849. Present in
                    Congress during Mr. Smith's last term was a certain Whig, the only
                    one from 
                        Illinois
                    , Abraham Lincoln, and they are said to have been very good friends.
            Tyler and Polk were Presidents during Mr. Smith's three terms in
                    Congress, Polk carrying the election of 1844 against the idol of the Whigs,
                    Henry Clay. The foremost questions of the day were the Annexation of 
                        Texas
                    , the Mexican War, territorial questions that grew out of the War,
                    and the 
                        Oregon
                     question. During his second term, Mr. Smith was a minority member
                    of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and during the last term chairman of the
                    Committee on Territories. These were at the time the most important committees
                    of the House. The first dealt with the 
                        Texas
                     and Mexican situations in addition to other matters. In regard to
                    territorial questions, Mr. Smith became prominent for his attitude on the
                    problems relating to 
                  Oregon,
                            California
               , and 
                        New Mexico
                    , which involved and developed the beginning of the political
                    cleavage on slavery. Mr. Smith brought in and defended the bills for the
                    organization 
                  
                     11 Andrew Kennedy lived in 
                                Delaware
                             County which was in the large fifth district until after
                            the election of 1841. Three new Representatives were allotted to Indiana
                            as a result of the census of 1840. Then 
                                Delaware
                             was placed in one of the new districts (tenth) and 
                                Fayette
                             (the home of Caleb B. Smith) became a part of the fourth
                            district.
               
                     of 
                        California
                     and 
                        New Mexico
                     with the slavery restriction of the Ordinance of 1787 in them.
                    Exciting debates continued for days and they were finally passed in the House by
                    a strict party vote, but were left to sleep quietly in the Senate committee, the
                    session ending with nothing agreed to.
            The Congressional Globe contains many references to Mr.
                    Smith's speeches and activities in the House. He is always found
                    representing the Whig attitude on public questions, except possibly on the land
                    question, in which connection he was heart and soul for extending help to the
                    newer western states. One of his most revealing speeches was made in defense of
                    a liberal land policy in the new state of 
                        Wisconsin
                    . From the experiences of Indiana, Smith had learned that the
                    eastern states had to be educated to the importance of new western states. He
                    argued that a liberal policy towards new states was of value to the entire
                    country. By extending settlements in the west, markets would be developed for
                    the products of New England.
            Jacob Collamer of 
                        Vermont
                     asserted, in answer to a question from Smith, that the public lands
                    sold in the West were largely paid for by people who migrated there from the
                    East. Smith declared that such was not the case, contending that more than three
                    fourths of the entire receipts from the public lands were paid by bona fide settlers in the new states who had been there for years.
                    Many new arrivals came without money and had to earn some in the West before
                    they could buy. The money paid to the government land offices by Westerners was
                    prone to flow eastward, there to be expended for internal improvements.12
            
            A speech which noticed local conditions in Indiana was made on July 6, 1848, when
                    introducing a bill to surrender to the State of Indiana that portion of the
                    Cumberland Road lying within the state. In explanation, Mr. Smith described the
                    condition of the road at the moment: 
                        It had been opened and partially graded through a great part of the
                            state; but it had now been ten years since any appropriation had been
                            made towards its completion, and it was falling rapidly into a state of
                            dilapidation. He knew personally of three bridges upon it which had
                            fallen down for want of repair; and unless something was done in the
                            course of three more years the whole road would be impassable. It was
                                
                        
                           12
                                    Cong. Globe, 30 Cong., 1 Sess., 751-752. May
                                    9, 1848.
                     
                             now, in winter time, the worst road
                            in the state. The people of the state had waited long in hope of aid
                            from the General Government, but they had now abandoned all hope for aid
                            from that quarter.
                     A bill was passed in August by which the road was relinquished to the
                    states traversed by it.
            Mr. Smith believed in a protective tariff and condemned the Walker Tariff of
                    1846. He was a friend of internal improvements and attacked Polk's
                    vetoes of such measures. He opposed the annexation of 
                        Texas
                     and the Mexican War. He held that the War grew out of the policy of
                    annexing 
                        Texas
                    , and was proud that Whig leaders had given warning of the danger.
                    The cry that Whigs were unpatriotic in their criticism of the war policy, Smith
                    answered by the declaration that "the highest, the purest patriotism
                    was evinced in keeping our country in the right". A patriot could not
                    wait till after the close of hostilities to voice his opposition, but must do it
                    at once. He could not hold his peace when he "saw his country hurried
                    on in a career of ruin by those who held the helm of State". He must
                    not "forbear to raise his warning voice, while warning might yet avail,
                    and point them to a different course".13
            
            Speaking in regard to the origin of the War a year later, Smith again restated
                    the earlier arguments of Whigs, his position being in harmony with that of his
                    Whig friend, Lincoln of 
                        Illinois
                    : 
                        I have to say that this House has decided, during the present session,
                            upon a solemn and deliberate vote by yeas and nays, that the war with
                            the Republic of 
                                Mexico
                            , in which we are now engaged, was "Unnecessarily and unconstitutionally commenced by the
                                President of the 
                                    United States
                                ." I had the good fortune—and I
                            deem it extreme good fortune—to have the opportunity of
                            recording my vote in favor of this sentence of condemnation. In giving
                            that vote, my heart concurred with my judgment; and I desire to say no
                            more at this time, in regard to the origin of the war, than to express
                            my concurrence with the decision so solemnly made by this House. It is a
                            decision which, in my deliberate judgment, the country will sustain and
                            approve. Whatever may be the opinions of individuals who, influenced by
                            partisan feelings, may be disposed to justify all that the President has
                            done or may do, when party excitement shall have been dissipated by
                            time, and the impartial pen of history shall have recorded the facts,
                            the matured judgment of the American people will sanction that vote of
                                condemnation.14
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., 122-123. Jan. 8, 1847.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., Appendix, 321, Feb. 3, 1848.
               
                     The remainder of the speech is a very
                    cogent though partisan attack upon the requests and estimates of the President
                    and Secretary of the Treasury for the conduct of the war. Needless to say, the
                    verdict of history has been a little more lenient with the President than were
                    the Whigs in the forties.
            An enthusiastic commentator gives to Smith a high place in the House:
                    "In these three terms [in the House], he [Mr. Smith] made himself the
                    foremost man of the Indiana delegation, and at the close was not only the most
                    prominent man in national affairs from this State, but the most prominent man
                    who had ever represented it." This estimate was, to a large extent a
                    true one, as Smith was placed in a position to be one of the first to set forth
                    the conservative northern opposition to the extension of slavery into new
                    territories.
            In spite of his success, Smith seems to have been looking about for something
                    different to do. He positively refused to accept a re-nomination in 1849, and
                    changed his residence to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Hollister's Colfax quotes a letter
                    which says: "Caleb B. Smith wishes Defrees and me to join him and buy
                    the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Gazette, making twenty thousand a year."15 Apparently Smith was considering the possibility of
                    retiring to private life, if not rewarded by the new Whig Administration. He had
                    strongly supported General Taylor in 1848 and was urged strenuously by his
                    friends upon the President-elect for the place of Postmaster General in his
                    Cabinet—said to be the first time an Indiana man had ever been
                    proposed for a cabinet position. He did not receive the post, but was appointed
                    to one hardly less important—a member with George Evans and Robert T.
                    Paine of a board to investigate the claims of American citizens against 
                        Mexico
                    . By the treaty of Guadaloupe Hidalgo, signed February 2, 1848,
                    which closed the war with 
                        Mexico
                    , three and a quarter million dollars were appropriated to liquidate
                    the claims of American citizens against 
                        Mexico
                    . Hearings were held during the next two years at which 292
                    memorials were presented, of which number 182 were sustained and a total of
                    $3,208,314 awarded, according to the report submitted to Daniel
                    Webster, Secretary of State in 1852.
            In 1850 Mr. Smith moved from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to his boyhood home, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , to take up again the practice of law. 
                  
                     15 Ovando James Hollister, Life of
                                Schuyler Colfax (
                                Chicago
                            , 1887), 44.
               
                     Perhaps also he wished to be nearer the
                    center of his new railroad interests. This period was the beginning of the real
                    railroad development that came to the country in the next few decades. His old
                    friends at 
                        Connersville
                    , Oliver H. Smith and Samuel W. Parker (also his brother-in-law),
                    had become deeply interested in them. O. H. Smith was president of the
                    Bellefontaine Line and in 1848 Parker had obtained a charter for the Junction
                    Railroad from the Legislature of Indiana. It was projected to run from Rushville
                    to the state line, near there to make a junction with the 
                  Cincinnati, Hamilton
                and 
                        Dayton
                     and thus open a way for the counties of 
                  Union, Fayette,
                            Rush
               , and 
                        Shelby
                     into the 
                        Cincinnati
                     market. The road is said to have been organized by Caleb Smith in
                    1850. Esarey has the following to say regarding the road: 
                        The meeting at College Corner of the citizens along the route for the
                            purpose of organizing the company was presided over by Dr. E. D.
                            Mc-Master, president of 
                                Miami
                             College; and the father of Gen. A. E. Burn-side was
                            secretary. The capital stock was $250,000. Col. H. C. Moore,
                            later superintendent of the 
                                Missouri
                             Pacific, surveyed the route. In 1853 it was decided that if
                            the road ever became valuable it would have to be extended to 
                                Indianapolis
                            , so a new company, the 
                                Ohio
                             & 
                                Indianapolis
                             company, was organized and merged into the Junction
                            company. Thus organized, ground was broken in 
                                Union
                             county in January, 1852, and construction pushed vigorously
                            for a few years, but the money on the stock, subscribed as usual in
                            lands and labor, came in slowly. The road reached 
                                Connersville
                             in 1860; a branch connected it with the Indiana Central at 
                                Cambridge
                             City in 1864; in 1866 it reached Rushville and in 1868 it
                            reached 
                                Indianapolis
                            . The work of construction thus extended over a period of
                            twenty years, a large part of the $5,000,000 capital having
                            been subscribed in 
                                Cincinnati
                            . The branch to 
                                Cambridge
                             City was extended to Newcastle in 1866 and thence on to 
                                Muncie
                             and 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , trains reaching these points in 1859. The completion and
                            success of the road was due in a large measure to the work of J. M.
                            Ridenour, its president after 1860.16
                  
                    
            
            Caleb Smith was also president of the 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Chicago
                     Railroad for several years, which was later taken into the Big Four
                    system and which was started in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . He seems to have devoted his eight years in 
                        Cincinnati
                     to his legal and railroad interests, and also to have had no better
                    success in the latter than many others of the period. The story is a familiar
                    one—bad times, inexperience in railway management, unwise location
                    due to local prejudice, too many railroads for 
                  
                     16 Logan Esarey, History of
                            Indiana, II, (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1918), 725.
               
                     the field, and unexpected expense in
                    construction—these and other causes brought many a railroad and with
                    it the officers and stockholders to misfortune. Mr. Smith shared a fate not
                    unknown to many others. In 1859 he abandoned his railroad connections and
                    returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to resume his legal practice, and, if possible, recover his
                    fortune.
            While the years devoted to railroad business occupied most of his time, politics
                    was not entirely forgotten. He was one of the electors on the Frémont
                    ticket in 
                        Ohio
                     in 1856, thus showing that he went with the great majority of
                    northern Whigs into the new Republican party. Again in Indiana, Mr. Smith was
                    immediately taken into the party deliberations. The city council elected him as
                    a trustee on the city school board. The national situation under Buchanan
                    aroused the fear and determination of those opposed to slavery extension. The
                    Republican party inherited from the old Whigs a knowledge gained by long
                    practice in party manipulation and political strategy. Division in the
                    Democratic party seemed to make possible a successful campaign for control of
                    the federal government and correspondingly increased the acuteness of the
                    situation and the keenness of the participants. The Indiana State Republican
                    convention met at 
                        Indianapolis
                     in Metropolitan Hall on February 22, 1860. Oliver P. Morton laid
                    claim to the governorship nomination as having been the successful candidate in
                    1856. Morton had come from the Democrats but the old line Whigs preferred one of
                    themselves and so chose Henry S. Lane for governor and put Morton on as a
                    candidate for Lieutenant Governor with an understanding that if the party were
                    victorious, Lane would go to the 
                        United States
                     Senate and Morton become governor, which, to anticipate, is what
                    happened. Four delegates-at-large to the National Convention were elected:
                    William T. Otto, of New 
                        Albany
                    , P. A. Hackleman, of Rushville, Daniel D. Pratt, of 
                        Logansport
                    , and Caleb B. Smith, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Two delegates from each of the eleven districts gave Indiana a
                    total of twenty-six votes to be cast in the convention. The State Central
                    Committee had tried to secure the convention for 
                        Indianapolis
                    , but 
                        Chicago
                     (112,000 population) had been finally chosen from among eleven
                    aspiring cities, and the date set was May 16th, 1860.
            Indiana at that date held a more commanding position, politically speaking, than
                    it does today. It had thirteen electoral 
                    votes, ranking fifth in the whole 
                        Union
                    , with the same number as 
                        Massachusetts
                    , and being exceeded in the old North. west by only 
                        Ohio
                    . The four preceding presidential elections had resulted in giving
                    the electoral vote of the state to the Democratic candidates. It is no wonder,
                    therefore, that Indiana came to be looked upon as one of the
                    "battleground states." John D. Defrees in an editorial in the
                        Daily Atlas published in 
                        Indianapolis
                     had written in the previous November: "It is conceded that
                    Indiana must be carried next year to render the election of a Republican
                    President beyond a contingency. It may possibly be accomplished without her
                    vote, but with it success may be regarded as certain." Lincoln
                    recognized this after his nomination. "We might succeed in the general
                    results without Indiana," he wrote Caleb Smith, "but with it
                    failure is scarcely possible."17 It was with such a
                    background and knowledge that the Indiana delegation appeared in 
                        Chicago
                    .
            William H. Seward of 
                        New York
                     was undoubtedly the out. standing candidate and few thought he
                    could be stopped from walking off with the nomination. He was opposed mostly by
                    favorite son candidates, 
                        Lincoln
                     from 
                        Illinois
                    , Bates from 
                  Missouri, Dayton
               
                    of 
                        New Jersey
                    , Cameron of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and Chase and McLean of 
                        Ohio
                    . Indiana had no favorite son and so was open to free consideration
                    of the candidates offered. The delegation was largely divided on Bates and
                    Lincoln, but was pretty thoroughly opposed to Seward, feeling that he could not
                    possibly carry the state if nominated. Murat Hal-stead sent descriptions of the
                    scenes at 
                        Chicago
                     to his 
                        Cincinnati
                     paper that are the best accounts of the convention we have. He
                    wrote: 
                        The Pennsylvanians declare, if Seward were nominated, they would be
                            immediately ruined. They could do nothing. The majority against them
                            would be counted by tens of thousands. New Jerseyites say the same
                            thing. The Indianians are of the same opinion. They look heartbroken at
                            the suggestion that Seward has the inside track, and throw up their
                            hands in despair. They say Lane will be beaten, the Legislature pass
                            entirely into the hands of the Democracy, and the two Re publican
                            Senators hoped for be heard of no more.18
                  
                        
                     
                        17 Lincoln to Colfax, quoted by Charles Roll,
                                in "Indiana's Part in the Nomination of Abraham
                                Lincoln for President in 1860" (Indiana
                                    Magazine of History, XXV, 13).
                     
                        18 Murat Halstead, National
                                    Political Conventions of 1860, 132.
                  
                    
            
            
            Of the situation on Thursday before the nomination of Friday, Halstead says:
                        
                        There were hundreds of Pennsylvanians, Indianians, and Illinoisians, who
                            never closed their eyes that night. I saw Henry S. Lane at one
                            o'clock, pale and haggard, with cane under his arm, walking
                            as if for a wager, from one caucus room to another, at the Tremont
                            House. He had been toiling with desperation to bring the Indiana
                            delegation to go as a unit for Lincoln. And then, in conjunction with
                            others, he had been operating to bring the Vermonters and Virginians to
                            the point of deserting Seward:… The object was to bring the
                            delegates of those States to consider success rather than Seward, and
                            join with the battle-ground States—as 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , 
                                New Jersey
                            , Indiana, and 
                                Illinois
                             insisted upon calling themselves.19
                  
                    
            
            Again Halstead writes: 
                        It was reported; and with a well-understood purpose, that the Republican
                            candidates for Governor in Indiana, 
                                Illinois
                            , and 
                                Pennsylvania
                             would resign if Seward were nominated. Whether they really
                            meant it or not, the rumor was well circulated, and the effect produced
                            was as if they had been earnest. Henry S. Lane, candidate in Indiana,
                            did say something of the kind. He asserted hundreds of times that the
                            nomination of Seward would be death to him, and that he might in that
                            case just as well give up the canvass. He did not feel like expending
                            his time and money in carrying on a hopeless campaign, and would be
                            disposed to abandon the contest.20
                  
                    
            
            Caleb B. Smith was elected chairman of the Indiana delegation. Preliminaries took
                    up time until Friday morning when nominations were reached. It is not necessary
                    to follow the details of the nominations and voting. After the five leading
                    candidates were placed in nomination and Indiana was called on, Mr. Smith
                    claimed the floor and announced: "I desire on behalf of the delegation
                    from Indiana to second the nomination of Abraham Lincoln, of 
                        Illinois
                    ," and according to the record sat down amid
                    "tremendous applause." This announcement indicated not only
                    the position of Indiana, but the probable trend of the voting toward Lincoln.
                    Three ballotings were necessary, in which Lincoln overtook and passed the Sage
                    of 
                        Auburn
                    .
            Late in the afternoon the nominations for Vice President were reached. For
                    Indiana Mr. Smith arose and announced: "I present the name of the
                    gallant son of 
                        Kentucky
                    , Cassius M. Clay." Clay was supported particularly because
                    he was 
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., 142.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., 143.
               
                     considered to be friendly and welcome to
                    the Seward men. Hannibal Hamlin, of 
                        Maine
                    , however, was made the running mate on the second ballot though
                    Clay was the runner-up. It was the custom at that time to make nominations in
                    one sentence, or at least very briefly, and then to take time for speech making
                    after the candidates were named. The 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune records that Caleb B. Smith was called on to address
                    the convention shortly after the nominations were made, and surely pleased the
                    Hoosiers present when he related how "Thirty years ago on the Southern
                    frontier of Indiana might have been seen a humble, ragged boy, barefooted,
                    driving his oxen through the hills." He explained the efforts of the
                    Indiana delegation in behalf of the former resident of Indiana saying:
                    "It is not that we loved Seward less but because we loved the great
                    Republican cause more…. I assure you that the Republican flag will
                    wave in triumph upon the soil of Indiana."21 Lane
                    was called for but was so exhausted that he could only promise Indiana for
                    Lincoln by 10,000 majority.
            The Indiana delegation had played a leading part in the nomination and went back
                    home to elect Lincoln. Caleb Smith was included as a member of the notification
                    committee that went down to 
                        Springfield
                     the next day to express to Lincoln their confidence in him and hope
                    for his election. The campaign in popular enthusiasm and intensive activity
                    recalled that of old 
                        Tippecanoe
                     twenty years before. Indiana was covered by speakers of all
                    parties, for the Democratic host had split three ways. Lane, Smith, Hackleman,
                    Morton, Will Cum-back, Benjamin Harrison, Cassius M. Clay of 
                        Kentucky
                    , and Carl Schurz of 
                        Wisconsin
                     appeared in all parts of the state for the Republican cause.
                    Indiana was then an October state and the state election was held on October 8.
                    Lane and Morton won by the promised 10,000 over Hendricks and Turpie, and just a
                    month later, on November 8, Lincoln received a majority of 6,000 over his
                    combined opponents.
            Thereafter a most interesting situation arose as to the makeup of
                    Lincoln's Cabinet. The Republican party had drawn into its ranks both
                    radical and conservative elements, astute politicians of the old school and
                    anti-slavery adherents of different degrees of intensity. George W. Julian of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 
                  
                     21
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, May 19, 1860, quoted by Roll in Indiana Magazine of HistoryXXV, 10.
               
                     who was of the radical tendency, and who
                    had come from the Free Soil camp, related in a reminiscent statement relative to
                    President-elect Lincoln: 
                        The rumor was current and generally credited that Simon Cameron and Caleb
                            B. Smith were to be made Cabinet ministers, and I desired to enter my
                            protest against such a movement. Mr. Lincoln heard ine patiently, but
                            made no committal; and the subsequent selection of those representatives
                            of 
                                Pennsylvania
                             and Indiana Republicanism, along with Seward and Chase,
                            illustrated the natural tendency of his mind to mediate between opposing
                                forces.22
                  
                    
            
            That there were others from Indiana who desired a seat in Lincoln's
                    Cabinet is brought out very forcibly by Hollister in his Life of Schuyler
                    Colfax, the editor at 
                        South Bend
                     of the 
                  
                            St. Joseph
                         Register: 
                        An unusually strong and widespread demonstration had been made in favor
                            of Mr. Colfax for the place of Postmaster General. He was commended by
                            the Legislatures and Governors of nearly every Northern and Border
                            State; by many Congressional delegations and Presidential Electors;
                            unanimously by the publishers of the great Eastern cities; and very
                            generally by the press. Mr. Lincoln called the Hon. Caleb B. Smith, also
                            of Indiana, into his Cabinet instead of Colfax. Mr. Smith was an old
                            Whig, who had been strongly supported for Postmaster General twelve
                            years previously when President Taylor was inaugurated. Failing to
                            receive the appointment, he had gone out of politics and out of the
                            State, and was now but recently returned. He and Lincoln had been
                            intimate during their service in the twenty-ninth Congress. He was at
                            the 
                                Chicago
                             Convention, seconded Lincoln's nomination, and
                            used his influence to bring Indiana to the support of Lincoln. On the
                            other hand, Colfax had supported Bates against Lincoln, and his friend
                            Greeley had helped to defeat Lincoln for the 
                                Illinois
                             Senatorship in 1858. The Republicans had carried the
                            Legislature of Indiana, and the State had a seat in the 
                                United States
                             Senate to bestow at that time, for which Caleb B. Smith and
                            Henry S. Lane, the Governor-elect, were candidates. If Smith went into
                            the Cabinet, Lane would get the Senatorship, and
                            Lieutenant-Governor-elect Morton would be Governor. All of these men,
                            inclusive of Smith, were warm friends of Colfax, but their own
                            advancement was paramount; and so Smith had strong support from
                            Colfax's own State, Mr. Lincoln subsequently wrote Colfax, as
                            follows: "I had partly made up my mind in favor of Mr. Smith,
                            not conclusively of course, before your name was mentioned in that
                            connection. When you were brought forward, I said: "Colfax is a
                            young man, is already in position, is running a brilliant career, and is
                            sure of a bright future in any event. With Smith it is now or never. I
                            considered either abundantly competent, and decided on the ground I have
                                stated."23
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  22 George W. Julian, in Reminiscences of
                            Abraham Lincoln, edited by Allen Thorndike Rice, 48-49.
               
                  23 Hollister, Colfax,
                    174-175.
            
            
            In later years a charge more specific was made against Lincoln as well as Smith
                    and Lincoln's managers at 
                        Chicago
                    . Mrs. Gresham in her life of Walter Q. Gresham, reported an
                    important statement of Judge William T. Otto: 
                        I have frequently heard Judge Otto tell how Caleb B. Smith imposed on
                            Judge David Davis and Joseph Medill when the latter during the
                            convention was pledging everything in sight to insure Mr.
                            Lincoln's nomination. "Mr. Smith," Judge
                            Otto said, "made Judge Davis believe that the Indiana
                            delegation would go to Seward unless Smith was promised a place in the
                            Cabinet; when the truth was that none of us cared for Smith and after we
                            got to 
                                Chicago
                             and looked over the ground all were for Lincoln."
                            That the pledge was made I have heard from Judge Davis's own
                            lips. That it was kept, everybody knows, for Caleb B. Smith became the
                            first Secretary of the Interior in Mr. Lincoln's Cabinet.24
                  
                    
            
            From another source came a similar charge. Charles Gibson of 
                        Missouri
                    , one of the leading Bates supporters, states in a reminiscent
                    article published in 1900: 
                        We had nearly all Indiana and a large portion of the 
                                Pennsylvania
                             delegation. Davis, Swett, and others acting for Mr. Lincoln
                            bought our votes in those states by agreeing to give Simon Cameron and
                            Caleb B. Smith Cabinet positions. Thurlow Weed controlled
                            Seward's votes absolutely, and had agreed with me that if
                            Seward was not nominated that morning he would combine on Bates and
                            nominate him. But for votes purchased from Bates, Lincoln could not have
                            been nominated.25
                  
                    
            
            Herndon, in his Life of Lincoln, adds more detail to the
                    picture: 
                        The day before the nomination the editor of the 
                                Springfield
                            
                            Journal arrived in 
                                Chicago
                             with a copy of the 
                                Missouri
                            
                            Democrat, in which Lincoln had marked three passages
                            referring to Seward's position on the slavery question. On
                            the margin of the paper he had written in pencil, "I agree with
                            Seward in his ‘Irrepressible Conflict,’ but I do
                            not endorse his ‘Higher Law’ doctrine."
                            Then he added in words underscored, "Make no contracts that
                            will bind me." This paper was brought into the room where
                            Davis, Judd, Logan, and I were gathered, and was read to us. But Lincoln
                            was down in 
                                Springfield
                            , some distance away from 
                                Chicago
                            , and could therefore not appreciate the gravity of the
                            situation; at least so Davis argued, and viewing it in that light, the
                            lab ter went ahead with his negotiations.26
                  
                    
            
            Later when discussing visitors who came to 
                        Springfield
                     to visit in the period after Lincoln's election, Herndon
                    says: 
                  
                     24 Matilda Gresham, Life of Walter Q.
                                Gresham (
                                Chicago
                            , 1919). I, 110-111.
                  
                     25 Charles 
                                Gibson
                            , "Edward Bates," in 
                                Missouri
                             Historical Society Collections (1900),
                            II, 55.
                  
                     26 William Herndon and Jesse Weik, Abraham Lincoln, II, 1721.
               
                    
                    
                        He had a way of pretending to assure his visitor that in the choice of
                            his advisers he was ‘free to act as his judgment
                            dictated,’ although David Davis, acting as his manager at the 
                                Chicago
                             convention, had negotiated with the Indiana and 
                                Pennsylvania
                             delegations, and assigned places in the Cabinet to Simon
                            Cameron and Caleb Smith, besides making other
                            ‘arrangements’ which Mr. Lincoln was expected to
                                ratify.27
                  
                    
            
            There is much to be said on the other side, however, for Lincoln did not select
                    his Cabinet without plenty of advice from all sides. He was in a difficult
                    situation, for he was obliged to build up from very diverse elements a working
                    party to support his administration in the face of certain stubborn and menacing
                    attacks in Congress. Jesse Weik, however, in his "Real
                    Lincoln" shows that Lincoln had a thorough appreciation of the services
                    of his old colleague in Congress. He writes: 
                        I knew and often talked with Augustus H. Chapman, whose wife was a
                            daughter of Dennis Hanks, and who was Lincoln's companion
                            when he drove from Charleston to see his stepmother. "During
                            the ride," related Colonel Chapman, "Mr. Lincoln
                            became more or less reminiscent, adverting frequently to family affairs.
                            He spoke in the most affectionate way of his stepmother, characterizing
                            her as the best friend he ever had…. He also spoke of the
                            campaign of 1860 and the loyal support of the 
                                Union
                             men, dwelling especially on the eloquence and ability of
                            Caleb B. Smith, of Indiana, who had, in his opinion, rendered him more
                            effective service than any other public speaker."28
                  
                    
            
            On the basis of his examination of the sources available to him, Rhodes wrote:
                        
                        Lincoln listened to all objections and all protests; he gave heed to all
                            arguments, and though at times he hesitated, and was on the point of
                            changing his mind in regard to some of the appointments, the names he
                            finally sent to the Senate made up the Cabinet substantially as he had
                            framed it in his mind the night of his election.29
                  
                    
            
            Albert Shaw in his Cartoon History of Lincoln summed up the situation in a way
                    most acceptable today. He says: 
                        There is no evidence that Lincoln had sanctioned the use of improper
                            methods, although political life in 1860 was not free from the taint of
                            bribery and corruption. Whether or not appointments to the Cabinet, and
                            to other lucrative and coveted offices, were due to pledges made at the
                            critical moment of the convention by Mr. Judd and the Lincoln managers,
                                
                        
                           27
                                    Ibid., II, 181.
                        
                           28 Jesse Weik, The Real 
                                            Lincoln
                                        
                           , 293-294.
                        
                           29 James Ford Rhodes, History
                                        of the 
                                            United States
                                         from the Compromise of 1850, III,
                                320.
                     
                             there is no reason to think that
                            Lincoln had authorized the use of such means.
                        Doubtless there is some evidence that the 
                                Pennsylvania
                             delegation was assured that Mr. Cameron would be considered
                            for a high position, and the same thing may have been true of Caleb
                            Smith of Indiana, and one or two others. There was no lack of adroit
                            management, but it would be overstraining minor details to assert that
                            Lincoln's nomination had been brought about by deliberate
                            bargaining. The gradual development of his strength as a political
                            leader in 
                                Illinois
                             sufficiently accounts for his nomination, when the tide had
                            turned against Seward.30
                  
                    
            
            As Lincoln showed in his treatment of Cameron, whom he was very hesitant in
                    appointing, the Cabinet positions were offered for reasons of merit rather than
                    in conformity with any manager's bargains.
            Before taking up his duties in the Cabinet as Secretary of the Interior and
                    before the inauguration of 
                        Lincoln
                    , Caleb Smith was appointed a member of the Peace Conference at 
                        Washington
                    . Delegates from Indiana were appointed by Governor Morton following
                    resolutions passed by the Legislature, which, however, required them to report
                    any resolutions of the Peace Conference back to the Legislature before voting on
                    them finally. Consequently, Indiana's delegates declined to vote upon
                    the final resolutions. The Peace Conference was initiated by the Legislature of 
                        Virginia
                     to agree upon amendments to the Constitution to prevent the
                    breaking up of the 
                        Union
                    . The Amendments so adopted were referred to Congress, which refused
                    to submit them to the states. Smith apparently took no part in the discussions,
                    but was a member of the Committee on Credentials and is said to have opposed all
                    compromises or concessions to the South. William Robinson Ellis says of the
                    Peace Conference: 
                        A Peace Congress having been proposed by 
                                Virginia
                            , I was appointed by Governor O. P. Morton a delegate from
                            Indiana, in conjunction with Caleb B. Smith, P. A. Hackleman, Godlove S.
                            Orth, and C. L. Slaughter…. My roommate at the Avenue House
                            was Mr. Smith, afterward Secretary of the Interior. Our Congress met in
                            a hall adjoining the Willard Hotel, in 
                                Washington
                            , was presided over by Ex-President John Tyler, and for a
                            month was the scene of most earnest and angry discussion. The principal
                            good anticipated from it on the part of the North, and all that it
                            accomplished, was to postpone the commencement of hostilities until
                            after the inauguration of President Lincoln.31
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  30 Albert Shaw, Abraham Lincoln, A
                            Cartoon History, II, 67.
               
                  31 William Robinson Ellis, "Autobiography of
                        a pioneer," in Indiana Magazine of History, X,
                        69-70.
            
            
            The day after his inauguration, Lincoln sent to the Senate his appointments for
                    Cabinet positions: Seward, State Department; Chase, Treasury Department; Bates,
                    Attorney-General; Blair, Postmaster-General; Cameron, War Department; Welles,
                    Navy Department, and Smith, Interior Department. They were promptly confirmed.
                    The Department of the Interior was the latest organized department, having been
                    established only twelve years before in 1849 during Smith's last year
                    in Congress. In it were placed several offices that related to purely domestic
                    affairs. These were the General Land Office, Bureau of Indian Affairs, Patent
                    Office, Pension Office, Census Bureau, and the Bureau of Mines. Concerning Mr.
                    Smith's conduct of his department there are no accounts extant, so
                    that it is to be presumed that it was entirely competent and satisfactory or
                    there would have been plenty of criticism in hostile newspapers. As to general
                    affairs, it has been said that Smith was one of those who recommended the
                    evacuation of Fort Sumter and that he later signed Chase's
                    remonstrance against the restoring of McClellan to his command. He was also said
                    to have opposed the signing of the Proclamation of Emancipation. The best
                    information as to that comes from Frank B. Carpenter, who painted the Cabinet
                    group picture and became quite friendly with the President. In his Six Months at the White House he says: 
                        The final Proclamation was signed on New Year's Day,
                            1863…. I remember to have asked him, on one occasion, if
                            there was not some opposition manifested on the part of several members
                            of the Cabinet to this policy. He replied, "Nothing more than I
                            have stated to you. Mr. Blair thought we should lose the fall elections,
                            and opposed it on that ground only." "I have
                            understood," said I, "that Secretary Smith was not in
                            favor of your action. Mr. Blair told me that, when the meeting closed,
                            he and the Secretary of the Interior went away together, and that the
                            latter said to him, if the President carried out that policy, he might
                            count on losing Indiana, sure!" "He
                            never said anything of the kind to me," returned the President.
                            "And what is Mr. Blair's opinion now?" I
                            asked. "Oh," was the prompt reply, "he proved
                            right in regard to the fall elections, but he is satisfied that we have
                            since gained more than we lost." "I have been
                            told," I added, "that Judge Bates doubted the
                            constitutionality of the proclamation." "He never
                            expressed such an opinion in my hearing," replied Mr. Lincoln.
                            "NO member of the Cabinet ever dissented from the policy in any
                            conversation with me."32
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  32 Frank B. Carpenter, Inner Life of
                            Abraham Lincoln, Six months at the White House, 87-88.
            
            
            The diary kept by Gideon Welles, Secretary of the Navy Department, is a source
                    for information about the relations and opinions of Lincoln's Cabinet
                    members. Welles mentions Smith a number of times, generally showing that he
                    leaned toward the Chase-Stanton side of the Cabinet, and in one place says:
                    "Smith imputes misfortune and mismanagement to one (Seward) who has the
                    ear of the President…."33
            
            Under date of September 16, 1862, Welles records: 
                        At the Executive Mansion, the Secretary of State informed us there was to
                            be no Cabinet meeting. He was authorized by the President to communicate
                            the fact. Smith said it would be as well, perhaps, to postpone the
                            Cabinet meetings altogether and indefinitely,—there seemed to
                            be no use latterly for our coming together. Others expressed
                            corresponding opinions. Seward turned off, a little annoyed.
                        An unfavorable impression is getting abroad in regard to the President
                            and the Administration, not without reason, perhaps, which prompted
                            Smith and others to express their minds freely. There is really very
                            little of a government here at this time, so far as most of the Cabinet
                            are concerned; certainly but little consultation in this important
                            period. Seward, when in 
                                Washington
                            , spends more or less of each day with the President,
                            absorbs his attention, and I fear to an extent influences his action not
                            always wisely. The President has good sense, intelligence, and an
                            excellent heart, but is sadly perplexed and distressed by events. He, to
                            an extent, distrusts his own administrative ability and experience.
                            Seward, instead of strengthening and fortifying him, encourages this
                            self-distrust, but is not backward in giving his own judgment and
                            experience, which are often defective expedients, to guide the
                            Executive. A conviction of this state of things stirred up Smith to make
                            his remarks.34
                  
                    
            
            On September 26th, 1862, Welles reports at greater length an incident in which
                    Mr. Smith figures: 
                        At several meetings of late the subject of deporting the colored race has
                            been discussed. Indeed for months, almost from the commencement of this
                            administration, it has been at times considered. More than a year ago it
                            was thrust upon me by Thompson and others in connection with the
                            Chiriqui 
                                Grant
                            , a claim to title from the Government of Central America of
                            a large part of 
                                Costa Rica
                            . Speculators used it as a means of disposing of that grant
                            to our Government, It was a rotten remnant of an intrigue of the last
                            administration. The President, encouraged by Blair and Smith, was
                            disposed to favor it. Blair is honest and disinterested; perhaps Smith
                            is so, yet I have not been favorably impressed with his zeal in behalf
                            of the Chiriqui Association. As early as May, 1861, a great pressure was
                            made upon me to enter into a coal contract with 
                        
                           33
                                    Diary of Gideon Welles, I, 119.
                        
                           34
                                    Ibid., I, 131.
                     
                             this company. The President was
                            earnest in the matter; wished to send negroes out of the country. Smith,
                            with Thompson, urged and stimulated him, and they were as importunate
                            with me as the President. I spent two or three hours on different days
                            looking over the papers,—titles, maps, reports, and
                            evidence,—and came to the conclusion that there was fraud and
                            cheat in the affair. It appeared to be a swindling speculation. Told the
                            President I had no confidence in it and asked to be released from its
                            further consideration. The papers were then referred to Smith to
                            investigate and report. After a month or two he reported strongly in
                            favor of the scheme, and advised that the Navy Department should make an
                            immediate contract for coal before foreign governments got hold of it.
                            Mr. Toucey had investigated it. Commodore Engle had been sent out to
                            examine the country and especially in relation to coal. The President
                            was quite earnest in its favor, but, satisfied myself it was a job, I
                            objected and desired to be excused from any participation in it. Two or
                            three times it has been revived, but I have crowded off action. Chase
                            gave me assistance on one occasion, and the scheme was dropped until
                            this question of deporting colored persons came up, when Smith again
                            brought forward Thompson's Chiriqui 
                                Grant
                            . He made a skillful and taking report, embracing both coal
                            and negroes. Each was to assist the other. The negroes were to be
                            transported to Chiriqui to mine coal for the Navy, and the Secretary of
                            the Navy was to make an immediate advance of $50,000 for coal
                            not mined,—nor laborers obtained to mine it, nor any
                            satisfactory information or proof that there was any decent coal to be
                            mined. I respectfully declined adopting his views. Chase and Stanton
                            sustained me, and Mr. Bates to an extent. Blair, who first favored it,
                            cooled off, as the question was discussed, but the President and Smith
                            were persistent.35
                  
                     Secretary Welles says that the matter ended there because Senator
                    Pomeroy undertook a colonization scheme for getting negroes to emigrate.
            On December 15th of the same year, Welles again gives us an insight into the
                    situation when he writes: 
                        Secretary Smith called on me to unburden his mind. He dislikes
                            Seward's management, and the general course pursued in
                            Cabinet and between the members generally. Thinks Seward the chief cause
                            of the unfortunate state of things. Smith tells me he [Smith] has made
                            up his mind to leave the Cabinet and accept the office of District
                            Judge, which he can have.36
                  
                    
            
            The report was correct, for a week later on Christmas day, Mr. Smith resigned his
                    portfolio and was appointed by President Lincoln 
                        United States
                     Judge for the District of Indiana in succession to Judge Elisha
                    Mills Huntington, who had 
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., I, 150-151.
                  
                     36
                            Ibid., I. 193.
               
                     died the 26th of the previous October. On
                    January 1st, 1863, Caleb B. Smith returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to take up his residence. He was successful and enjoyed his new
                    position. The Journal thus characterized his service on the
                    bench: 
                        As a Judge he was amiable and courteous to a degree which disarmed
                            partisan bitterness at a period of unusual party exasperation, and his
                            fairness was so evident that there could be little more complaint of it
                            than of his demeanor. He saw the pith of a proposition, or a difficulty,
                            readily, and could state it with freedom from embarrassing
                            qualifications that enabled the most ordinary understanding to follow
                            his reasoning closely up to his conclusion.37
                  
                    
            
            Smith's health had not been good for some time and he probably wished
                    the judgeship because he would have a less strenuous position than in 
                        Washington
                    . He served but one year on the bench and felt that he was improving
                    greatly in health when he was suddenly stricken at his office in the court on
                    the morning of January 7, 1864. He ruptured a blood vessel during a fit of
                    coughing, occasioning a hemmorrhage of the stomach. He lingered until evening
                    and then expired. The funeral was held on the twelfth with state and national
                    officers present and under the auspices of the Grand Lodge.38 President Lincoln ordered fourteen days mourning at 
                        Washington
                    , and on January 9 a committee of the Indiana Bar was appointed to
                    prepare resolutions. These were later drawn up and presented in the District
                    Court in May, with suitable responses and eulogies by Judge White and Judge
                    Davis.
            Mr. Smith was married at 
                        Connersville
                     to Elizabeth B. Walton on July 8,1831. She was a daughter of
                    William Walton, one of the pioneers who had come from 
                        Ohio
                    . There were three children, Albert who died in infancy, and a son
                    and daughter (Rosalind) who survived their father.
            John Coburn in his Sketches of the Old Indiana Supreme Court Bar describes Mr.
                    Smith as he appeared to the observer on the opening of the Court in November
                    1843: 
                        Near by, sat Caleb B. Smith, of 
                                Connersville
                            , almost youthful in 
                        
                           37
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    Journal (daily), Jan. 9, 1864.
                        
                           38 There is an interesting question
                                    concerning the resting place of the remains of Mr. Smith. In
                                        Crown Hill Cemetery 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , there is a mausoleum marked "Caleb B.
                                    Smith" which bears the date "1864".
                                    The remains of Mrs. Smith, of her Daughter Mrs. Hovey. wife of
                                    Governor Alvin C. Hovey and of a young man who was a relative of
                                    Mrs. Smith, were deposited in the mausoleum in later years. New
                                    facts have come to light which indicate that the body of Mr.
                                    Smith was not placed in the mausoleum but taken to 
                                        Connersville
                                     and placed in a cemetery there beside the grave of
                                    an infant son who died before the father. See Anna Nicholas, The Story of Crown Hill
                           
                                    (1928), 134.
                     
                             appearance, under medium height,
                            with smooth and oval face, already a famous orator at the bar, in the
                            Legislature and on the stump; afterwards a mighty power in Congress, and
                            in Lincoln's Cabinet. Mr. Smith, for fluency, rapidity, force
                            and point, has rarely been equalled by any public speaker. His speeches
                            found in the Congressional Globe confirm this view.
                            When he died in 1865, he was the foremost orator of the Republican party
                            in the nation.39
                  
                    
            
            Judge C. P. Ferguson, who made a trip from 
                        Madison
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                     as a boy, describes Mr. Smith in his Reminiscences of a Journey to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the year 1836: 
                        My father having arrived he took me to the Mansion House to room with
                            himself. He permitted me to go with him to the State House on the
                            morning of the organization of the House. I witnessed the ballotings for
                            speaker and was told that the name of the man elected was Caleb B.
                            Smith. I remember the speaker as a handsome, trimly-built man, hardly of
                            middle age, well-dressed with black broadcloth, and I think he had black
                            hair. He did not use a gavel, but a flat ruler was always on his desk.
                            Upon taking his seat, he would rap with his ruler and then announce,
                            "The houthe will pleathe
                            come to order." Here I digress to say that it was probably
                            twenty years after Mr. Smith was speaker before I saw him again when he
                            made his appearance in court at Charles-town in connection with a suit
                            to destroy the charter of the old Ft. 
                                Wayne
                             and Southern Railroad Company. Time had made its ravages.
                            Instead of a trim, well-dressed man with a head well covered with hair,
                            I faced a gentleman inclined to corpulency, careless in dress, with
                            scattering gray hair. But the lisping tongue was still there as was
                            evident in a political speech he was induced to make in which he
                            compared Judge Douglas to Baalam's Ass, several times, much
                            to the merriment of his hearers, coming over the expression,
                            "am I not thine athe?"40
                  
                    
            
            M. L. Bundy, who knew Smith well, has the following to say of him: 
                        Smith, as a lawyer, stood in the front rank and as an advocate before a
                            jury had no equal among his associates. On the stump his power over an
                            audience was supreme, with no action, but standing like a statue the
                            words and sentences flowed from him with irresistible power. He spoke
                            rapidly, but invariably the right words came to express the idea
                            intended, "like softest music to attending ears." He
                            never told anecdotes in his public speeches, but among his friends in
                            private conversation would often relate some story applicable to
                                himself.41
                  
                    
            
            In the editorial following Judge Smith's death in 1864, the Journal spoke of him in the following manner: 
                  
                     39
                            Bench and Bar of Indiana, 63. Coburn wrote this
                            passage in 1858, just before Smith's return from 
                                Cincinnati
                             to 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     40 C. P. Ferguson, "Reminiscences of a
                            Journey to 
                                Indianapolis
                             in the Year 1836" in Indiana Historical Society
                                Publications, II, 354.
                  
                     41 Bundy. in the Indianian, V,
                            231-232.
               
                    
                    
                        It was chiefly as an orator, and especially as a popular or
                            "stump" orator, that Mr. Smith excelled. Here he had
                            few rivals, and no superior, In some important respects he had neither
                            rival nor superior. His voice, singularly clear, sonorous, and
                            penetrating rarely encountered a crowd that could exhaust its power
                            without obtaining the full freight of thought it carried. His language
                            was copious and appropriate, often striking, and always clear, and his
                            style, though affecting little of the polished elegance of the pen, was
                            rarely slovenly or feeble. He possessed the ability to argue a
                            proposition convincingly, while covering it with apt and pleasant
                            "hits," and could, when it served a purpose, say as
                            bitter things as John Randolph himself.
                        He rarely attempted a philosophical discussion of political questions,
                            but treated them in the plain common sense way that sensible men usually
                            speak of them to each other, and here lay the secret of his success. He
                            could fire as high as anybody if it was worth while, but he knew it was
                            no use, and so fired into instead of over his audience, and this
                            discussion level with the comprehension and habits of his audience,
                            enlivened by witty allusions, and apt illustrations, and carried forth
                            by his, superb voice, made him the master of "stump
                            oratory" that he was. When the occasion or the subject demanded
                            higher treatment he was equal to it, and few men have made so powerful
                            jury; speeches as he, or more complete and thorough legal arguments.42
                  
                    
            
            The Sentinel, in its main editorial of the preceding day, gave
                    the following estimate: 
                        Judge Smith discharged every public position to which he was called with
                            dignity, ability and in accordance with his convictions of duty. As a
                            public speaker he was graceful, forcible and eloquent and as a stump
                            orator he had but few superiors. In politics he was a Whig, decided and
                            enthusiastic and upon the disbandment of that noble party he followed
                            the radical portion into the Republican ranks. The natural tendency of
                            Judge Smith's mind was to conservatism, and he generally so
                            expressed himself, especially the last year or two in his private
                            conversations upon the difficulties of the country, but the surroundings
                            of party influences guided his public action into the radical channels.
                            While Judge Smith was not profound or learned, he possessed a
                            comprehensive mind which readily grasped the subject to which it was
                            directed, with the rare faculty combined of giving utterance to his
                            ideas in language appropriate, eloquent and exhausting, illustrating
                            them with the charms of oratory.43
                  
                    
            
            Dr. Macartney, who recently wrote Lincoln and His Cabinet, may
                    be quoted as follows: 
                        "He (Lincoln) was, I would say," wrote one who had
                            heard Lincoln speak, "with the exception of lisping Caleb
                            Smith, the most effective public speaker on the scene on which we have
                            been looking." Another, 
                        
                           42
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    Journal (daily), Jan. 9, 1864.
                        
                           43
                                    State Sentinel (daily, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    ), Jan. 8, 1864.
                     
                             Smith's successor in
                            Lincoln's Cabinet, John P. Usher, said: "He was a
                            true orator. He was a man who from the rostrum, would talk to you until
                            you would feel the blood tingling through your veins to your
                            fingers' ends and all the way up your spine." Smith
                            was one of those orators whose eloquence comes down to us as a
                            tradition, and which it is impossible to test by any printed record, for
                            Smith left less of such records behind him than any of our great
                            American orators.44
                  
                     Thus we take leave of a man who may truthfully be said to be fairly
                    representative as a lawyer, business man, legislator, orator, judge, and
                    statesman of the period that led up to and initiated the Civil War.
            
               
                  44 Clarence E. Macartney, Lincoln and his
                            Cabinet, 49.
            
         
         
         
            The Indiana Historical Society
            By CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
            Papers of the Pears Family: 
                        New Harmony
                    
            
            The Society on August 28, issued the first number of Volume XI of its Publications, a pamphlet of 96 pages entitled "
                        New Harmony
                    , An Adventure in Happiness," comprising the papers of
                    Thomas and Sarah Pears, edited by Thomas Clinton Pears, Jr., historian of the
                    Presbyterian Church of the 
                        United States
                    .
            Dr. John W. Oliver, former director of the Indiana Historical Bureau, now head of
                    the History Department, University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , brought these letters to the attention of the secretary of the
                    society, who secured their publication and their editing by Dr. Thomas Clinton
                    Pears, a descendant of the authors of most of the letters. Mrs. Sarah Pears was
                    a relative of Benjamin Bakewell, who established the first successful flint
                    glass factory in this country, a factory which was the showplace of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     for many decades. Thomas Pears, before going to 
                        New Harmony
                    , had been a partner of John James Audubon, the naturalist, in a
                    steam grist mill at Henderson, 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            The letters of this couple reveal the interest of people of wealth and prominence
                    in the experiment of Robert Owen at 
                        New Harmony
                    . They reveal, also, the weaknesses of Owen's plans and
                    difficulties met in carrying them out. They went to 
                        New Harmony
                     at the beginning of the 
                        Owen
                     régime and left 
                        New Harmony
                     about a year later, in late April or early May, 1826, when the
                    failure of the experiment in communism was already apparent and the
                    "adventure in happiness" had ended in disappointment.
            The letters from Thomas Pears and his wife, and those addressed to them, give,
                    perhaps, the best inside view of the 
                        New Harmony
                     settlement which has ever been published, for the writers were
                    people of unusual intelligence and in sympathy with the purposes of Robert Owen,
                    though not fanatically devoted to his principles.
            HISTORICAL PUBLICITY
            
            The amount of printed matter about George Rogers Clark—so great that
                    only a small fraction of it could be represented  in the cornerstone of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Memorial when it was sealed in September—proves that the
                    erection of appropriate memorials furnishes one of the best opportunities of the
                    society for making the public historically minded. A bronze or stone memorial
                    itself is a constant reminder of the historic past. Perhaps more important,
                    however, is the publicity secured by the movement for the erection of a memorial
                    and the education of the public which is a requisite for its success.
            For nearly eight years the society has centered this phase of its work in the
                    commemoration of the winning of the Old Northwest. In the summer of 1925 it was
                    requested by the 
                        Vincennes
                     Historical Society to sponsor a movement for the celebration of the
                    one hundred fiftieth anniversary of the capture of Fort Sackville on February
                    25, 1779 by George Rogers Clark. The executive committee agreed to do this and
                    at the annual meeting in December of that year, appointed a committee to take
                    charge and promote the movement.
            By this time it had already been decided that the most appropriate object would
                    be the erection, of a national memorial on the site of Fort Sackville. The
                    facilities for staging a celebration at 
                        Vincennes
                     and for taking care of the crowds were limited. On the other hand,
                    the site offered unusual opportunities for a good architectural structure and
                    setting while the proposed new bridge over the 
                        Wabash
                     River, together with important national highways, insured large
                    numbers of visitors.
            In 1925 the people of the 
                        United States
                    , and even the people of Indiana and 
                        Vincennes
                    , knew little about George Rogers Clark and the acquisition of the
                    Old Northwest by the 
                        United States
                    . It was necessary, therefore, to carry on a protracted and
                    widespread educational campaign. One member of the society, Ross F. Lockridge of 
                        Bloomington
                    , who had extensive lecture engagements, generously adopted George
                    Rogers Clark as his unique theme. It is a conservative estimate that he has
                    spoken five hundred times on this subject. His lectures developed into a little
                    book, George Rogers Clark, Pioneer Hero of the Old Northwest,
                    which became a "best seller."
            Milo M. Quaife, author of a modern revision of Clark's memoirs and
                    Colonel Henry Hamilton's report, long since out  of print, and the Bobbs Merrill Company, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , were prevailed upon to issue a new edition of this work in 1927
                    under the title, Capture of 
                            Old Vincennes
                        . A copy of this was distributed among members of the
                    General Assembly of Indiana and the Congress of the 
                        United States
                    , and it was very generally read. This edition was soon sold out.
            The John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company responded enthusiastically to the
                    suggestion that it add George Rogers Clark to its series of historical pamphlets
                    which began with John Hancock. Numerous printings of this pamphlet were made and
                    to date 916,000 copies have been distributed. Extended use of the Yale
                    University film, "
                        Vincennes
                    " was also secured.
            Meanwhile the movement gave a favorable opportunity for writers and publishers to
                    produce and sell books on this subject. Among those published are Temple
                    Bodley's George Rogers Clark, His Life and Public
                        Service; the volume from the pen of Lowell Thomas, Hero of 
                            Old Vincennes
                        ; Clark of the 
                            Ohio
                        
                by Frederick Palmer, and the most authoritative
                    historically of the several works by James A. James, George Rogers
                        Clark. The state of Indiana built its informative booklet for the year
                    of the one hundred fiftieth anniversary of the capture of Fort Sackville around
                    that event and distributed thousands of copies of its Indiana
                        1779-1929, George Rogers Clark, One Hundred Fiftieth Anniversary. This,
                    by the way, has proved one of the best advertisements of the state of Indiana.
            Through the generous support of Postmaster General, Harry S. New, one of whose
                    ancestors took part in Clark's campaign, a commemorative postage
                    stamp was issued on February 25, 1929, on which a reproduction of Frederick
                    Yohn's painting told the story of Fort Sackville. 
                        Virginia
                     printed a large number of copies of its "Deed of
                    Cession" of the Old Northwest to the 
                        United States
                    . Newspaper publicity, at first obtained by persuasion and prepared
                    articles, soon became spontaneous and assumed very large proportions. A great
                    majority of newspapers in the 
                        United States
                     have carried accounts of Clark's campaign. Many have had
                    illustrated or front page articles.
            Public celebrations have been of assistance, such as the celebration of the one
                    hundred fiftieth anniversary of the capture 
                    of Fort Sackville held at 
                        Vincennes
                     on February 25,1929, and the celebration on September 3 of this
                    year, of the one hundred fiftieth anniversary of the Treaty of 
                        Paris
                    , on which occasion the 
                        Wabash
                     River bridge at the memorial grounds was dedicated and the corner
                    stone of the memorial building was sealed. Governor Paul V. McNutt's
                    address at 
                        Vincennes
                     on May 26, in which this celebration was proposed, was itself of
                    great educational value and was reprinted in the Indiana Magazine
                        of History, June 1933, and as George Rogers Clark National
                        Memorial Leaflet, No. 1, under the title "
                        Vincennes
                     and the Old Northwest."
            The Indiana Historical Society has not undertaken and probably will not undertake
                    the erection of memorials by its own organization. This can best be done by
                    special organizations developed for this purpose. The society's
                    function is to study the history involved and to bring home to the public the
                    information and inspiration it should have. In proportion to the expenditure
                    required this is the most fruitful part of memorial movements, and it is an
                    essential element of social progress.
         
         
         
            Documents
            EDUCATIONAL PROVISIONS OF THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIANA
            The Manuscript here reproduced was written by John I. Morrison in 1880. It was
                    found among some papers in the State Library dated 1882, and sent to the Editor by Dr. Christopher B. Coleman, Secretary of the Indiana
                    Historical Society. Mr. Morrison, a Democrat of 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana, was a member of the constitutional convention of
                    1850-1851. He was the founder and editor of the 
                  
                            Washington
                         County Democrat. Article 8 of the Indiana Constitution
                    which includes the provisions relating to Education are inserted here for the
                    convenience of readers.
            
                    [Section 1. Knowledge and learning, generally diffused throughout a
                        community, being essential to the preservation of a free government; it
                        shall be the duty of the General Assembly to encourage, by all suitable
                        means, moral, intellectual, scientific, and agricultural improvement; and to
                        provide, by law, for a general uniform system of Common Schools, wherein
                        tuition shall be without charge, and equally open to all.
                    Section 2. The Common School fund shall consist of: the Congressional
                        Township fund, and the lands belonging thereto;
                    The Surplus Revenue fund;
                    The Saline fund and the lands belonging thereto;
                    The Bank Tax fund, and the fund arising from the one hundred and fourteenth
                        section of the charter of the State Bank of Indiana;
                    The fund to be derived from the sale of county seminaries, and the moneys and
                        property heretofore held for such Seminaries; from the fines assessed for
                        breaches of the penal laws of the State; and from all forfeitures which may
                        accrue;
                    All lands and other estate which shall escheat to the State, for want of
                        heirs or kindred entitled to the inheritance;
                    All lands that have been, or may hereafter be, granted to the State, where no
                        special purpose is expressed in the grant, and the proceeds of the sales
                        thereof; including the proceeds of the sales of the swamp lands, granted to
                        the State of Indiana by the act of Congress of the twenty-eighth of
                        September, eighteen hundred and fifty, after deducting the expense of
                        selecting and draining the same;
                    Taxes on the property of corporations, that may be assessed by the General
                        Assembly for common school purposes.
                    Section 3. The principal of the Common School fund shall remain a perpetual
                        fund, which may be increased, but shall never be diminished; and the income
                        thereof shall be inviolably appropriated to the support of Common Schools,
                        and to no other purpose whatever.
                    Section 4. The General Assembly shall invest, in some safe and profitable
                        manner, all such portions of the Common School fund as have  not heretofore been entrusted to the several
                        counties; and shall make provision, by law, for the distribution, among the
                        several counties of the interest thereof.
                    Section 5. If any county shall fail to demand its proportion of such
                        interest, for Common School purposes, the same shall be reinvested, for the
                        benefit of such county.
                    Section 6. The several counties shall be held liable for the preservation of
                        so much of the said fund as may be entrusted to them, and for the payment of
                        the annual interest thereon.
                    Section 7. All trust funds, held by the State, shall remain inviolate, and be
                        faithfully and exclusively applied to the purposes for which the trust was
                        created.
                    Section 8. The General Assembly shall provide for the election, by voters of
                        the State, of a State Superintendent of Public Instruction; who shall hold
                        his office for two years, and whose duties and compensation shall be
                        prescribed by law.]
                
            A FRAGMENT OF THE INSIDE AND UNWRITTEN HISTORY OF THE
                    CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION
            John I. Morrison
            1850 1880
            
            
                    Nearly thirty years have elapsed since the convention met, that formed the
                        present Constitution of the State of Indiana.
                    Of the one hundred and fifty delegates who composed that body, but a mere
                        remnant has been spared to the present hour.
                    To notice the many reforms grafted into the policy of the State by the new
                        Constitution, is not proposed at present. This may be done at another time.
                        All that will be attempted now, is to refer, briefly, to some of the
                        provisions in Article VIII entitled Education and to give a little of its inside and unwritten history, as
                        it was moulded by the Committee on Education, before it was reported to the
                        Convention, and adopted as part of the New Constitution.
                    The standing Committee on Education, selected by the President chiefly on
                        account of their well known sentiments in favor of free schools and liberal
                        education, was announced in the following order. Messrs. Morrison of 
                            Washington
                         County, Bryant, May, Hitt, Foster, Stevenson, Nofsinger,
                        Milligan and Blythe.
                    This committee went to work immediately, elected Col, James R. M. Bryant of 
                            Warren
                         County, Secretary, and resolved to hold stated meetings weekly,
                        and daily when necessary to compare views, collect information and take
                        action upon all subjects of special reference by the Convention. Without
                        exaggeration it may be added that every member was fully impressed with a
                        deep sense of the heavy responsibility that rested upon him, and long and
                        earnest were the conflicts, before the general principles were settled,
                        which should be embodied in the final 
                        report of the Committee.
                    Indeed the first section of the Article, which in the main was copied from
                        the old Constitution, gave rise to many warm and exciting discussions. A
                        close comparison, however, will reveal differences, vitally important to the
                        success and efficiency of the whole scheme.
                    By the New Constitution a general and uniform system of common schools is
                        established, wherein tuition shall be without charge and equally open to
                        all. Under the Old Constitution, all was chaos and uncertainty, and the
                        legislature was authorized to act, "as soon as circumstances will
                        permit." By the New, every provision is mandatory. The system
                        cannot remain inert, it must be put in active operation; it must have
                        motion; it must move everywhere and at all times; and it must be uniform.
                    While every word in this first section was submitted to the severest
                        scrutiny, there is none that was canvassed with more care and diligence than
                        the word "uniform." One member of the committee contended,
                        with great zeal and pertinacity, that "equitable" was the
                        proper word, but a wiser and better judgment preponderated, and this term
                        was allowed to stand.
                    The second section, which particularized what the principle of the Common
                        School Fund shall consist of, was adopted in committee after much labor and
                        painstaking, especially the clause which makes the funds to be derived from
                        the sale of county seminaries and the fines assessed for breaches of the
                        Penal Laws of the State and all forfeitures that may accrue, a part of the
                        principal of the Common School Fund.
                    It was earnestly contended that all moneys arising from such sources should
                        be regarded as so much annual income and be applied as fast as it accrued,
                        to defray the current expenses of tuition. But a majority of the committee
                        would entertain no proposition which did not contemplate a constant addition
                        to the principal of the Fund, an ever swelling tide to such extent as would,
                        within a limited time, produce an income amply sufficient, without any
                        supplement from taxation, to educate every child of suitable age in the
                        State.
                    This point being settled, the way was opened for the adoption of the third
                        section, without much debate, with the exception of a little sharp criticism
                        on the redundance of the phrase, "to no other purpose
                        whatever", in the second clause which reads as follows,
                        "and the income thereof shall be inviolably appropriated to the
                        support of common schools, and to no other purpose whatever."
                        Although the retention of this phrase was said to be in deference to the
                        wishes of the Chairman, yet in the light of experience, its necessity has
                        been fully vindicated and it is believed that no true friend of common
                        schools can be found at the present day so hypercritical as to extract, if
                        he could, this clause from the Constitution.
                    The sixth section which held the several Counties liable for so much of the
                        fund as may be entrusted to them, and for the payment of the annual interest
                        thereon, met with very formidable opposition, when first suggested in
                        committee, but when it was shown that this section was an exact copy of the
                        law already on the Statute books, all opposition was  withdrawn.
                    This section has done its full share in preserving the integrity of the
                        principal, and securing the payment in full, of all the accruing interest.
                    For the seventh section, which makes all trust funds remain inviolate, the
                        State is indebted to the late Hon. John Pettit—not a member of
                        the Committee but one of the ablest delegates of the Convention.
                    For the eighth section, which provides for the election of a State
                        Superintendent of Public Instruction, the Chairman of the Committee must
                        alone be held responsible. By a majority vote in committee, this section was
                        stricken out from the final report. The potent argument used to defeat the
                        measure, was the creation of an additional State officer, and the consequent
                        expense of maintaining such an office.
                    The news of the decision of the Committee in rejecting the section was
                        received with very great alarm by its friends on the floor of the
                        Convention. It was regarded as a fatal blow against the State's
                        undertaking to educate the children of the State, without a sentinel to
                        guard the public funds from pillage and misappropriation, as well as a head
                        to guide the general system, and mould it into proper form; it was believed
                        that the whole system would soon become a wreck as certainly as the richly
                        laden vessel when deprived of a Captain to keep its reckoning and control
                        its helm. In the midst of general despondency the Chairman, having found a
                        few sympathizing friends who proffered their support, determined to submit
                        the rejection to the tender mercies of the Convention. To his great relief,
                        after a somewhat stormy debate, the additional section was adopted, and was
                        ordered to be engrossed by a vote of 78 to 50, and added to the New
                        Constitution.
                    To satisfy any regrets that the term of office was not made four years
                        instead of two, it may suffice to add, that the aid referred to was promised
                        on the express condition that the term of office should be limited to two
                        years.
                
         
         
            The following reminiscences were furnished by Miss Florence Coffin of Long Beach, 
                        California
                    . The family of her mother, Mrs. Annie Morrison Coffin (writer of
                    the second and shorter reminiscence), formerly lived at 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana. The father of Mrs. Morrison and her brother Captain
                    Theophilus Wiley Morrison (writer of the first and longer reminiscence) was John
                    I. Morrison whose manuscript relative to the constitution of 1851 is printed
                    above. Captain Morrison was born in 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana in 1842, during the period when his father was a teacher
                    of languages in Indiana University. The Captain's narrative was
                    written at Fort Concho, 
                        Texas
                    , on March 10,1884. That of his sister, Annie Morrison  Coffin was written in Long Beach, 
                        California
                     during the past summer at the age of 93. Though born in 1842,
                    Theophilus Wiley Morrison saw service in the Civil War. He afterwards joined the
                    regular army and was killed at San Juan Hill on July 1, 1898. At that time he
                    was a Captain in the Fifteenth Infantry. He was buried at 
                  Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
               . He was named for Professor
                    Theophilus Wiley of Indiana University.
            
                    RECOLLECTIONS OF SALEM
                    By Theophilus Wiley Morrison
                    Commencing May 1st, 1861, I taught a public school in 
                            Salem
                        , Indiana, for a term of three months, with the exception of the
                        last few days of July. I had been engaged in teaching a district school the
                        previous winter, on Walnut Ridge, 
                            Washington
                         County, Indiana, for a term of three months. Going back still
                        further, my boyhood was passed in 
                            Salem
                        , attending school irregularly, and working in the printing
                        office as compositor for nearly two years, the principal time in the 
                            Washington
                         County Democrat office. I clerked in the store of E. &
                        I. H. Hennock for three months, and also a week or so for Simon Drum,
                        Clothing Store, and for Eli Malott, grocery and provision store, on the
                        occasion of their making trips to 
                            Louisville
                        , Ky., for goods; having sole charge during their absence. I was
                        clerk in the office for my father who was Treasurer of the County, during
                        his last term, after which I was employed for a few weeks at a time in the
                        office of the Auditor of the County, Wm. Williams. My grandfather and Uncle
                        Robert and Jep Morris had me work for them on their farms occasionally, but
                        more than I liked in corn planting and harvest time and when the wheat was
                        thrashed, and the oats, and when the corn was gathered. When I was a boy of
                        six or seven years old, my father moved his family from the old homestead
                        known as the Institute Building, to the Dunham place near town, which he
                        purchased. While we lived there I did all kinds of work, such as feeding
                        stock, milking cows, cutting stove wood, working in the garden, gathering
                        apples, repairing fences, etc. It was an unprofitable seven years of my life
                        in many respects. The farm consisted of only twenty-odd acres, but enough to
                        give me many an ache in body, as well as mind, for I was too healthy, and I
                        never took kindly to work by myself, and it was very lonesome to me on the
                        farm, and it seemed to me that it would be a good thing if I could be with a
                        hired boy who would do a portion of my work, just for the sake of his
                        company. I was the only dependence for months at a time in the various
                        duties that could not be left undone. My father was away from home a good
                        deal of the time we lived on the farm, attending to his duties as County
                        Surveyor, and member of the State Legislature. The heavy farm work such as
                        cultivation of the crops, and building fences was done by hired hands. When
                        at home father stepped into the hired boys shoes to my satisfaction.
                    
                    The first coat that was made for me from measure taken by a tailor, was a
                        nice brown cloth. It was on the occasion of my going to 
                            Bloomington
                         with my father who attended the exercises at Commencement, of
                        the State University, when my brother was at College in the third year of
                        his term. I was always very proud of this coat until one day at 
                            Salem
                         I wore it when I went to see the sights in Tom
                        Allen's cotton factory. One of the girls at work there took the
                        privilege of calling me a nice little 
                            Quaker
                         boy. When I inquired her reason for calling me a 
                            Quaker
                         boy she said, Oh I can tell by the cut of your coat. My early
                        inclinations were strongly averse to the observance of the requirements of
                        the oddities of dress as well as the peculiarities of speech of persons of
                        that denomination, for the reason that I thought the chances for a Circus
                        coming to 
                            Salem
                         greater in proportion to the number of inhabitants in that
                        vicinity who were not Quakers. My Mother, though a member of the Friends
                        Church and of 
                            Quaker
                         parentage, dressed, and allowed her children to dress, in
                        modern style, and never tried to make us appear as Quakers, and none of us
                        did, intentionally. T. B. Combs made this coat for me, and my Father could
                        not understand my opposition to Mr. Combs making any more clothing for me.
                        He laughed when I told him what the factory girl said, took me over to
                        Hennochs after that and got me clothing that fit just like the paper on the
                        wall.
                    I attended school first the session my father commenced teaching at the 
                            Washington
                         County Seminary in the year 1849, and progressed as far as
                        fractions in Davies arithmetic and then quit studying because father had me
                        recite to some of his scholars who were of my own age, but who were advanced
                        farther than I was by reason of longer and more regular attendance at
                        school. The grade for graduation in father's school was as high
                        as in any College in the 
                            United States
                        , and he could not devote much time during school hours teaching
                        the first lessons in the little books. I was allowed to
                        attend school pretty much as I pleased and eventually quit. I had not been
                        to school for a good while when Marmaduke Hobbs first commenced teaching in
                        the Seminary building—The High School as he called it. I was then
                        anxious to go to school and was in attendance the first day, but after
                        school was out an accident happened to me that kept me at home for several
                        weeks. I rode our pony to water him at the creek. It had been raining that
                        day, and the pony fell with me at a slippery place in a lane by the
                        tan-yard. He fell heavily on my leg. Some men at their work at the tan yard
                        came and helped me on the pony, and I rode back home suffering intensely.
                        When I went back to school I found that the class that I belonged to was too hard for me at first, but I caught up in time and got
                        along very well until Hobbs attempted to punish me for whispering in school.
                        I picked up my books and said goodbye to the boys and girls, and told Hobbs
                        to go to the d—I, and walked out of the school house. On reaching
                        home I told my father that I was not going to school to that dog raiser any
                        more. He required me to give the circumstances, and then told me I need not
                        attend school any more. While attending the High School I bought a pup, I
                        named Ponto, of the Hobbs family. I paid a silver quarter for Ponto. I had
                        him in my arms carrying him away, but just as I was leaving the yard  Ponto's mother sneaked up
                        and gave me a savage bite on that part of the body that didn't
                        give her any trouble to reach up to, and sneaked away again without a growl.
                        Ponto was a cheap dog though for all that, with a good deal of sense, and
                        like the most of dogs would fight when cornered, and sometimes when he
                        wasn't. As it was, it was the dog Ponto who saved me from
                        compulsory attendance at the High School as father told me many years
                        afterwards.
                    After the seven years spent on the farm our family moved back to the
                        Institute Building in consequence of the failure of the parties who bought
                        it to pay for it, and I passed the time we lived there much more agreeably.
                        I still had plenty of work to do about the house and garden. I did more than
                        if I had been sole judge of what constituted plenty. Prof. Wilson taught
                        school in the basement. The building was our home, and I always considered
                        him and his school as being out of place there. It was a school for girls
                        and young ladies.Noble C. Butler and myself were the only boys admitted to
                        scholarship. I didn't like it and quit after a few weeks. Noble
                        was a bright scholar and on his best behavior all the time. After teaching a
                        session there Prof. Wilson opened school in the Seminary building. I
                        attended school again but only strived to be foremost in all games we had at
                        school and studied books as little as possible. I got along pretty well
                        until I was wrongfully accused by him of discharging the contents of a shot
                        gun through the window into the blackboard. The boy who did it grew to be a
                        man. His body received burial in the graveyard at 
                            Salem
                        . I left the school in consequence of keeping my word not to
                        tell who did it. My next, last and best teacher in school was Prof. James G.
                        May, who always treated me kindly. Prof. Wilson gave me a bad name and Prof.
                        May had heard of it when he came to teach, but under Mr. May I was as good
                        as the average school boy as he informed me, and progressed very well in my
                        studies. I stopped going to school from a desire to earn some money. When I
                        left Prof. May's school I was competent to teach any public or
                        district school in the County. I taught my district school on Walnut Ridge,
                        and the public school of the North district of 
                            Salem
                         successfully and had scarcely any trouble with my scholars. It
                        was during my scholarship under Prof. May that I was sure.
                        that I had a good moral character, as I was admitted to membership in a
                        literary society having that important feature in the Constitution and By
                        Laws as one of the requirements of membership, besides the payment of the
                        initiation fee of $1. The society went to pieces though owing to
                        the small number of members who attended the meetings, and on the last one
                        [meeting], as previously resolved by the society, we had some high fun over
                        an oyster stew and nick-nacks purchased with the sum total of the funds of
                        the Society, amounting to five or six dollars. Our meeting on that occasion,
                        as before, was in the second story of the Seminary and held at
                        night—no Honorary members present. Our family lived the second
                        time several years in the Institute building. No place has been so much to
                        me like home sweet home as that capacious building was. It was at last sold
                        to Prof. James G. May, and we moved to Grandfathers, and lived there several
                        months, and then bought the place my Uncle Nixon Morris owned, and moved
                        there, where the family lived the 
                        balance of the time we resided in 
                            Salem
                        . I performed similar duties about the house and farm as when we
                        lived on the other farm that we still owned and rented, earning a few
                        dollars occasionally by working for other folks, and teaching, as I have
                        before stated. I was painting our wood house when that most terrible and
                        destructive tornado of 1858 first gave indication of its approach, and with
                        father's warning that it would be a great storm, E got inside the
                        residence none too soon. It did great damage throughout its track from
                        Southwest to East of North—in width twenty
                        miles—through the State and on into 
                            Ohio
                        . It caused the death of my cousin, Annie Morris. It damaged our
                        property to the extent of several hundred dollars in fences, trees, and the
                        tin roof of the L of our residence. It was blown entirely off and fell in
                        the garden. I have never witnessed as great a storm since. It was a grand
                        sight—sublime—of portentous splendor.
                    I left 
                            Salem
                         with a company of volunteers for 
                            Indianapolis
                        , the latter part of July 1861, to enlist for the war. We were
                        accepted and mustered in the 
                            United States
                         service as Company G. 18th Ind. Vol. Infty. I remember well the
                        time the soldiers left 
                            Salem
                         for the Mexican war, and their drills held on the Common
                        adjoining the Institute, and remember particularly that all the family and
                        some visitors were posted in the best places for observation, at the upper
                        windows of our residence, watching the soldiers ascending the hill beyond
                        town on the New 
                            Albany
                         dirt road. I watched the soldiers as long as they were in
                        sight. Some of the visitors were crying but I did not understand the import
                        of their sorrow. I thought of it only as a pleasant and interesting sight to
                        see the soldiers marching away. The recollection of this came to my mind
                        vividly when aboard the train with my Company rounding the curve as we left 
                            Salem
                        , and I then felt the reality of the fact for the first time in
                        a sorrowful way, that we were going to war—and I had relatives
                        and friends, an affectionate mother and loving sisters whom I knew were in
                        distress at that time; and I had my last look at 
                            Salem
                         and our house with my eyes affected to tears, and a heart that
                        fit. Oh beautiful 
                            Salem
                        ! I love you better than I knew. My comfort was that I had left
                        the impression that I was glad to have the opportunity to serve my country
                        as a soldier, even though my feelings, then, suggested the contrary. My
                        patriotism was at a low ebb just at that time, and I did not care to have it
                        known.
                    About the time of the Mexican War my brother and sister and myself were in an
                        engagement that might have proved to be the death of myself and sister if
                        the attacking party had shown better discrimination. As it was, the attack
                        was directed against my brother, who, after a desperate struggle, succeeded
                        in getting out of it safe and sound. We went in company to gather berries at
                        a briar thicket in a field back of the Seminary, and in the midst of the
                        thickest of the thicket, and whilst we were picking berries, we heard a
                        squealing of pigs—poor things—and then a
                        blood-curdling sight ensued in the twinkling of a second. A large savage sow
                        rushed furiously at my brother, at which I got terribly frightened and badly
                        entangled in the briars. My sister heroically helped me to get out of my
                        predicament, but it took some moments, and some of  my clothing, and there, near us, my brother was
                        fighting the hog away with all his might. There was no chance for him to
                        run, as the hog was right at him before he could even turn around, and that
                        may have been fortunate. The briars were very thick, and even with a first
                        class intention to run, it is a feat too difficult of accomplishment in the
                        midst of a dense briar thicket. The hog had a clear space for advance in the
                        first instance and came quickly, suddenly and savagely. My
                        brother's only defense was to use his feet in staying per force his ground, and back out fighting, in doing
                        which he exerted himself to the utmost of his strength, as the hog was
                        determined it seemed to kill him, and my brother could see that plain
                        enough. He stumbled and fell backwards, but kept on kicking the hog away in
                        that humble and scored position, the briar bed and pillow helping to keep up
                        his spirits. The hog left him and made search for us, but owing to my
                        sister's bravery and dexterity we were by this time out of harms
                        way in the open field paddling for home, and it remains unknown whether the
                        hog went back to find out whether my brother was there for a stand up fight.
                        I think it was on that account that the "Theophilus Thistle stuck
                        ten thousand thistles through the thick of his thumb", was repeated
                        so often about that time, and not so much because the first word belonged to
                        me but because I had some title to the ownership of the whole sentence. I
                        didn't mind it any more than my sister did to hear me say
                        "Listen to the little pigs, poor things", my version of
                        "The Mocking Bird."
                    My father was editor, proprietor and founder of the 
                            Washington
                         County Democrat, and the paper was published at one time, for a
                        considerable while, in the basement of our residence, the Institute
                        building. Father's habit was to write editorials and read proofs
                        and cut clippings from exchanges in the South East room of the third story.
                        There was in consequence quite a large amount of combustible material
                        remaining in this room from day to day. A huge pile of old papers and
                        manuscript was stuffed in and around a 
                            Franklin
                         stove, which was there as a kind of waste-basket. The pipe of
                        the stove had been disconnected from the flue in the wall, but I was not
                        aware of the fact, and considered it a proper thing to set fire to the
                        miscellaneous collection in the stove, and put into the fire the stuff
                        outside of it in detail. The first part of this programme was a success.
                        Never since has smoke or flame seemed so portentous as the ominous roaring
                        that announced the calamity the lighting of a match at that time brought
                        about. The fire at once leaped to the ceiling and poured out of the stove
                        and pipe in an appalling manner. I had not at that time heard of the George
                        Washington hatchet story, and rushed down stairs and announced the condition
                        in the earnestness called for by the immediate peril of the situation. Mama!
                        Mama! the house is on fire and I don't know who did it! I suppose
                        that there was more smoke in that room than ever before or since. Upon
                        Mother's arrival the discovery was made that waste papers were
                        not as plentiful as they had been. The Democrat office was in the course of
                        time moved to the DePauw block. Rank Williams, Tom Telly and I did all the
                        office work for many a day in that building. At last we struck for higher
                        wages ostensibly, but we  were tired of
                        the business, and William Williams, the publisher and proprietor, knew that
                        fact, and felt pretty sure that though he should concede to our demands that
                        day that we would strike soon again, and keep on striking, and he wisely
                        paid us off, and closed the office temporarily as other competent help was
                        not at that time available in 
                            Salem
                        . Mr. Williams made a trip to New 
                            Albany
                         and employed help and continued the publication regularly.
                    Sometimes a person can't help crying over spilled milk, or
                        "some-wheres" about the time milk is spilled. When a boy I
                        milked a kicking cow, one of those certain and sure kickers that become
                        expert by practice, and was kicked over many a time. I attempted kindness
                        time and time again, but it wouldn't work. By the time I made up
                        my mind to what may be termed heroic treatment, I was sure that nothing else
                        would do that cow any good. I stroked the meek looking animal, named Pink,
                        kindly and said, Now Pink if you kick again I will shoot you, and that time
                        I got a good one that made me wonder how people could take such risks as
                        getting within reach of a cow's heels, and on recovering breath I
                        banged away at her sure enough, with aim, and put about an ounce of squirrel
                        shot back of her ears. I was too mad to milk, but the next morning I
                        proceeded to the task and Pink never kicked me again. We were offered sixty
                        dollars for Pink after that, and I wanted father to sell her as I thought I
                        detected the fact that she had a short memory. It was a good big price for a
                        cow at that time, but the money was not tendered, and selling to an Editor
                        must be for cash when that editor was Mr. Coe of the 
                            Salem
                         Times, my father said, which was the universal opinion of
                        everybody who knew Coe before he took his departure.
                
         
         
            SALEM'S FIRST TRAIN
            By Annie Morrison Coffin
            
                    The first Railroad train that came into 
                     Salem, Washington
                   County, Indiana, [ran on a railroad
                        that] was built by subscription. My father, John I. Morrison, gave
                        $40.00, all the money he could spare.
                    It was a narrow gauge, flat rail, and was only 36 miles long. It was called
                        the New 
                            Albany
                         and 
                            Salem
                         Railroad and afterwards became part of the great Monon road.
                    My Mother thought it would be interesting to go down to the station and see
                        the train come in, so she prepared a picnic basket and filled it with good
                        things to eat for our lunch. We got on the train at Harris-town, the last
                        station before entering 
                            Salem
                        . There was one coach attached to the engine, and an, Engineer,
                        Fireman and Brakeman.
                    Just after the train left 
                            Salem
                         there was a sharp curve to avoid a hill and the little dinky
                        engine went promptly off the track—bumpity, bumpity, bump. My
                        Father told one of the men to bring him a fence rail and he had them put one
                        end under the engine and the other end over a large stump, which he called a
                        fulcrum, That was the first time I ever 
                        knew what a fulcrum was. Well, the men bore down on the other end and
                        pressed the engine on the track again.
                    The men had not brought any food with them. They were glad to eat our lunch,
                        and when we got home and Mother found that she had to get supper for her
                        hungry brood she sat down on the steps and cried. I can see her now. This
                        was in 1851. I was eleven years old.
                
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               The Election of 1868, (
                        Columbia
                     University Studies in History Economics and Public Law, number
                    392). By Charles H. Coleman. 
                        New York
                    , 1933. Pp. 407, $5.00.
            This monograph in the field of party history has for a sub-title, "The
                    Democratic Effort to Regain Control." The common view is that there was
                    no chance whatever for the discredited, divided, disorganized Democratic party
                    to win in 1868. Nevertheless, things just as strange have happened in the course
                    of American party history. Though the general currents of party history are
                    determined very largely by economic and social factors, the turn of events is
                    often changed or greatly modified by personal ambitions or misunderstandings.
                    Had not General Grant broken with President Johnson he could have become the
                    candidate of the Democratic party, which might have changed very greatly the
                    history of parties during the succeeding generation.
            With the majority of the white men of the country in the Democratic ranks in
                    1868, as the author contends (p. 45), though many southern whites were
                    disfranchised, it would seem that the re-born Republican party won a majority of
                    the popular and electoral votes only because General Grant became the candidate.
                    There was a chance for the Democratic party to nominate Chief Justice Salmon P.
                    Chase, but it is an open question whether he could have polled more votes than
                    did Horatio Seymour. In fact the 
                        New York
                     leader, whom the Democratic convention was stampeded into
                    nominating, ran well under all the existing circumstances. He was not defeated
                    on account of the reconstructed states of the South (p. 363). Though the author
                    seems reluctant to accept the contention that the victory of General Grant was
                    due to his widespread popularity, he does not disprove it. It is true that
                    Seymour ran consistently behind Democratic candidates on state tickets, (p. 363)
                    but even had this not been the case, he would still have met with defeat.
            This study of the campaign and election of 1868 has been done in a praiseworthy
                    manner. The chief actors have been handled without bias, and they have been made
                    to stand out quite clearly. The sources have been judiciously used. The account
                    is clear and satisfactory in regard to conditions issues  and men. The ease with which General Grant could
                    cease to be a seemingly sincere supporter of the reconstruction policy of
                    Lincoln and Johnson and become the hero of the Radicals is not made clear. The
                    only explanation of the taking up of the General by the Radicals is interesting,
                    but the matter is left shrouded in some mystery. Did Grant join the Radicals
                    because of his break with Johnson or did he break with Johnson because the
                    Radicals were anxious to take him up? This fascinating question is not well
                    answered, but we have the interesting assertion (p. 85) that "the fall
                    elections of 1857 showing a strong Democratic swing led the Radicals to cast
                    their doubts aside and to accept Grant to avert their threatened
                    defeat." The open rupture with the President which came on January 28,
                    the author thinks "precluded any possibility of the Democrats
                    nominating Grant". A not too definite conclusion is reached:
                    "By the beginning of Grant's quarrell with Johnson (January
                    28, 1868), the movement for his nomination by the Republicans had achieved such
                    proportions that it is doubtful if it could have been stopped even if the
                    quarrel had not occurred." If this be correct, it is hard to understand
                    why Johnson clung to Grant so long, unless he did not see the drift among the
                    Republicans.
            The aim of the author, as indicated in his sub-title, was to stress the part
                    played by the Democratic party in the campaign of 1868, but it seems strange
                    that he could so thoroughly ignore some salient facts about the Republican
                    party. There is no mention of the 
                        Union
                     party of the Civil War period and the illuminating article of
                    William A. Dunning, "The Second Birth of the Republican Party"
                        (American Historical Review, XVI, 56-63) is not listed in
                    the bibliography. That the convention which nominated Grant and Colfax called
                    itself the "Republican National 
                        Union
                     Convention" is noticed, but nothing is said of the
                    interesting and significant transformation of the 
                        Union
                     party which had to take place between 1864 and 1868 before there
                    could be a Republican party again. It would have been difficult to fuse the
                    moderate men of the 
                        Union
                     party with the Radicals into a successful party in 1868 without a
                    candidate like General Grant.
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH.
         
         
         
            
               Indiana Boundaries (Indiana Historical Collections, XIX). By
                    George Pence and Nellie C. Armstrong, Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1933. Pp. xiv+883.
            A large portion of the extensive labor required in the preparation of the maps
                    included in this volume was done by Mr. George Pence, who died in September
                    1929. The difficult task of completing the book has been accomplished by Miss
                    Nellie C. Armstrong, who has been aided at different stages by Mrs. Ruth
                    Williams Spilver and Miss Dorothy Riker. The treatment of "Boundary
                    Legislation" (pp. 1-103) was written by Miss Armstrong, who also
                    checked over and added to the matter presented in the remainder of the volume.
                    The outcome is an unusual study which will be useful in future years to local
                    and state officials, members of the General Assembly, and citizens generally.
            The volume presents a vast amount of detailed information in regard to
                    territorial, state and county boundaries with numerous maps to show the changes
                    that have been made in boundary lines from time to time. Following various
                    territorial maps, there are twenty-eight maps of Indiana (pp. 147-201) which
                    attempt to show all changes made in the limits of the counties of the state from
                    1816 to the present, including the formation of new counties and transfers of
                    tracts or strips of land from one county to another. The basic map used in each
                    case is one with all the counties of today designated, on which map the
                    particular changes made in any given year or period of years are indicated by
                    slightly heavier black lines than those which indicate the present county
                    boundaries. The facts have been carefully gathered but the resulting maps are a
                    disappointment. It is to be regretted that the historical lines showing the
                    county boundaries, say in 1816-1817, 1819-1820, 1829-1830, or any other time
                    that might be selected, were not printed in red. It will be difficult for anyone
                    to understand, without a very close examination of the maps what counties
                    existed and what were the boundaries in any given year (1829-30, for example, p.
                    175) really were.
            For each county of the state there is a separate map to depict each change made
                    in the boundaries of the county from the time of its formation to the present. 
                        Adams
                     and 
                        Allen
                     counties require but one map each; 
                        Bartholomew
                    , four; 
                        Clark
                    ,  sixteen; 
                        Franklin
                    , five; 
                        Gibson
                    , thirteen; and 
                        Whitley
                    , two, using these few counties as illustrations. In the case of
                    each county map, the names of bordering counties appear in large, bold-face
                    type, but the name of the county mapped does not appear on the map, being given
                    below in much less conspicuous type. It would seem that the name of the county
                    mapped should appear conspicuously, while the names of surrounding counties
                    should be printed in a less noticeable manner.
            Though one may regret these seeming defects in the printing of the many valuable
                    maps, no one can have anything but praise for the work as a whole, nor anything
                    but gratitude to the authors for the vast mass of useful and accurate
                    information presented.
         
         
            The Palimest, well known monthly publication of the State
                    Historical Society of 
                        Iowa
                    , is running a series of articles relating to the beginnings of
                    railroads that cross 
                        Iowa
                    . The author is William J. Peterson, who contributed an article to
                    the August number, "The 
                        Rock Island
                     Comes to 
                        Iowa
                    ", and another to the September number, "The North
                    Western Comes."
            Letters written by Father Cooney from the front during the Civil War have
                    appeared serially in the Records of the American Catholic
                        Historical Society under the title, "The War Letters of Father
                    Peter Paul Cooney of the Congregation of the Holy Cross." The fourth
                    and last installment of this very interesting correspondence appears in the
                    current (September) issue of the Records. Father Cooney served as Chaplain of
                    the Thirty-fifth Indiana Volunteers. This regiment saw very active service under
                    General Rosecrans, and Father Cooney certainly played a splendid part at the
                    great battle of Murfreesboro. The Letters of Father Cooney are preserved in the
                    Archives at Notre Dame, and were contributed and edited by the Rev. Thomas
                    McAvoy, Archivist at Notre Dame University.
            Dr. Thomas Clinton Pears, Jr., has edited some 
                        New Harmony
                     correspondence of his ancestors, Thomas Pears and wife Sarah
                    (Palmer) Pears, for the Indiana Historical Society. The letters were written
                    during the years 1925, 1926,  1927. Most of
                    them were written by Mr. and Mrs. Pears while residing at 
                        New Harmony
                     during the 
                        Owen
                     régime. The earliest of the letters was written on June
                    2, 1825, by Thomas Pears to his wife's uncle by marriage, Benjamin
                    Blakewell, a glass manufacturer of 
                  Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
               . The last of the 
                        New Harmony
                     letters of the Pears family was that of Mrs. Pears to Mrs.
                    Blakefield, which bears the date April 8, 1826. Two short letters written to
                    Mrs. Pears about a year later from friends left behind in 
                        New Harmony
                     are of interest in connection with the failure of Robert
                    Owen's social experiment. The following paragraphs from the last
                    letter of Mrs. Pears may suffice to arouse an interest in the short collection:
                        
                        I am really quite at loss as to what to say with regard to our
                            proceedings here; but most people seem pretty well persuaded that they
                            will never come to any good, and I have no doubt that two thirds of the
                            Society would go if they had the means. Mr. Owen is growing very
                            unpopular even with the greatest sticklers for the System. I assure you
                            that Mr. Owen of 
                                New Harmony
                             is a very different personage from Mr. Owen in
                                    
                        Pittsburgh,
                                    Washington
                     ,
                            etc. As Mr. Pears is writing I suppose he will give you an account of
                            the public affairs, but indeed that is a most difficult task as they are
                            ever varying, ever changing, never at rest. What one writes one day is
                            perhaps not true the next.
                        I wish I felt in sufficient spirits to give you a description of the new
                            costume which Mr. Owen has been trying very hard to introduce, and which
                            has actually been adopted by several of the beaux and belles. The female
                            dress is a pair of undertrowsers tied round the ankles over which is an
                            exceedingly full slip reaching to the knees, though some have been so
                            extravagant as to make them rather longer, and also to have the sleeves
                            long. I do not know whether I can describe the men's apparel
                            but I will try. The pantaloons are extremely full, also tied around the
                            ankle; the top garment also very full, bound round the waist with a very
                            broad belt, which gives it appearance of being all in one, A fat person
                            dressed in this elegant costume I have heard very appropriately compared
                            to a feather bed tied in the middle. They are tied round the neck like
                            the girl's slips, and as many wear them with no collars
                            visible, it is rather difficult to distinguish the gentlemen from the
                            ladies, When I first saw the men with their bare necks it immediately
                            struck me how very suitably they were equipped for the executioner.
                        There were two weddings last Sunday in the Hall. The parties with their
                            bridesmaids and groomsmen were all dressed in the new costume, which is
                            of black and white striped cotton, and as they have as yet but one
                            apiece, and as one of the brides had been working in the boarding School
                            kitchen all the preceding week, and had done a great deal of scrubbing
                            in hers, it could not be very nice. She, poor girl, had first dressed
                            herself very nicely in bridal white, but was persuaded by Mr. Owen  and the bridegroom to lay aside
                            these trappings of the old world, and to draw from its depository
                            amongst the dirty clothes this elegant suit in which she was married.
                            But I have been told that the change cost her many tears.
                        The ceremony was performed by Mr. Owen, who merely asked each if they
                            were willing to take one another as man and wife; which on their
                            answering in the affirmative, he required them to make a declaration
                            that any after ceremony was unnecessary except in compliance with the
                            laws of the state. They were then married in the usual manner by a
                            Methodist minister. After dinner the bridal party attended by many of
                            the young ladies and gentlemen of the place, drums leading and music
                            playing, took a long walk. Some of the parties were very anxious to have
                            concluded the night with a dance at the Hall; but Mr. Owen very properly
                            negatived the proposal, not that he has any idea of its being wrong
                            himself, but because he thinks it better not to wound the feelings of
                            those who may attach an idea of impropriety to it. One of the brides was
                            a strict Methodist when she first came to Harmony.
                        Mr. Pears has just come in, and he informs me that he will not be able to
                            finish his letter as he will be obliged to write all day to-morrow as
                            hard as possible. This has been the case every Sunday since he has been
                            Deputy Commissary. Is this not too bad? I scold every Sunday about it,
                            but alas! in vain. Mr. Pears is kept so very busy all the week that he
                            cannot get through the accounts without working nearly all Sunday.
                        Indeed the day here is only used as a day of recreation, visiting and
                            amusement, military operations, and with some few of work. Those ladies
                            who are in regular employment, having no time allowed them, have some
                            excuse for washing, ironing, and doing their own sewing on the Sabbath.
                            Every Sunday evening there is a meeting at which Mr. Owen reads over the
                            particulars of the expenditures of the society, and the amount of work
                            performed by each occupation, and also the names of the workmen and
                            women, with the characters attached to each.
                    
            
            The title of the pamphlet of ninety-six pages is, 
                  
                            New Harmony
                        : An Adventure in Happiness, with a sub-title "The
                    Papers of Thomas and Sarah Pears." The pamphlet is Number 1, Volume XI,
                    of the Publications of the Indiana Historical Society. Copies
                    may be obtained from the Secretary of the Society for fifty cents each.
            
               Pontificia Americana, "A Documentary History of the
                    Catholic Church in the 
                        United States
                     (1784-1884)", edited by Donald Shearer, O.M.Cap., Ph.D.,
                    has appeared as Number 11 of the series known as the Franciscan
                        Studies. These Studies are published under the
                    auspices of the Franciscan, Conventual and Capuchin Fathers of the 
                        United States
                     and 
                    
                        Canada
                    . This number (in paper cover) may be obtained from Joseph F.
                    Wagoner of 54 Park Place, 
                        New York
                     City for $1.25 per copy.
            This volume prepared by Dr. Shearer is preceded by a sixteen-page carefully
                    documented "Historical Introduction" and accompanied by a
                    calendar of documents, bibliography and index. The documents include those of
                    the various pontificates from that of Pius VI (1783-1799) to that of Leo XIII
                    (1878-1884). The papal Bulls and Briefs are printed in Latin, but each is
                    preceded by a summary in English indicating its contents. It was the purpose of
                    Dr. Shearer in accompanying the documents with historical summaries and
                    explanatory references to give to readers "a concise account of the
                    American Church during the period (1784-1884), from the sole viewpoint of the
                    papacy's contribution to its growth and development." This
                    purpose, he seems to have accomplished well.
            The 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society has recently published the second volume of 
                  
                            Minnesota
                         in the War with 
                            Germany
                        
                (
                        Minneapolis
                    , 1933. Pp. x, 290, $2.50), by Franklin F. Hol-brook and
                    Livia Appel. The first volume of this work, which has been edited by Dr. Solon
                    J. Buck, formerly Superintendent of the 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society, came out in 1928. (Noticed in Indiana Magazine of History, XXV, 68). The earlier volume was devoted
                    to military activities while the final volume deals mainly with the home
                    activities of the citizens of 
                        Minnesota
                     as related to the War. Both volumes are illustrated, well-written,
                    carefully edited and attractively printed. They constitute a valuable treatment
                    of 
                        Minnesota
                    's part in the World War.
         
         
         
            Comment
            "And now, four centuries from the discovery of America, at the end of a
                    hundred years of life under the Constitution, the frontier has gone, and with
                    its going has closed the first period of American history." With this
                    sentence, Frederick Jackson Turner closed his famous contribution, "The
                    Significance of the Frontier in American History," in the year 1893. He
                    was then at the threshold of his career of great influence as an interpreter of 
                        United States
                     history and as an inspiring teacher of younger men who were to
                    teach and write. A hostile reviewer (Louis M. Hacker, in The
                    Nation, July 26, 1933) of the volume of essays, The
                        Significance of Sections in American History, says of the increasing
                    influence of Turner: "Not only were Turner's own seminar
                    students legion (he taught altogether for some thirty-four years) but his
                    personal followers in turn scattered over the land to indoctrinate other vast
                    numbers of eager scholars, thereby increasing the Turner host by geometric
                    proportions." These "disciples" have labored
                    dilligently with the result that libraries are stacked with "a vast
                    pile of monographic studies and special investigations, all of them concerned
                    with aspects of the settlement and institutional development of the American
                    West."
            It has been a very widely accepted view that men inspired by Turner have done
                    well for the cause of American history—that their researches have
                    resulted in an extensive and sound body of historical knowledge. Challenging
                    directly the Turner "tradition" as "not only
                    fictitious but also to a very large extent positively harmful," Hacker
                    believes it scarcely an exaggeration to say that "the patient and
                    obscure toiling of another long generation of American historical scholars will
                    be required to destroy" the influence of the host who have written
                    under the spell of Turner's mistaken interpretation of American
                    history.
            After stating the hypotheses of Turner in re the influence of
                    frontier and sections, Hacker feels that there is little more to do.
                    "Merely to mention these rather naive ideas as I have" he
                    asserts, "is enough to refute them." Finding the task of
                    refutation so easy, he proceeds to explain how Turner happened to start down the
                    wrong road while at Johns Hopkins University writing a doctoral dissertation.
                    Then we have the  critic's
                    positive contribution of his survey of Turner's faulty work and
                    unhappy influence in his final paragraph: 
                        The historical growth of the 
                                United States
                            , in short, was not unique; morely in certain particulars
                            and for a brief time, it was different from the European pattern largely
                            because of the process of settlement. With settlement
                            achieved—that is to say, the historic function of extensive
                            agriculture performed, class (not sectional!) lines solidified,
                            competitive capitalism converted into monopolistic capitalism under the
                            guidance of the money power, and imperialism the ultimate destiny of the
                            nation—the 
                                United States
                             once again was returning to the main stream of European
                            institutional development. Only by a study of the origins and growth of
                            American capitalism and imperialism can we obtain insight into the
                            nature and complexity of the problems confronting US today. And I am
                            prepared to submit that perhaps the chief reason for the absence of this
                            proper understanding was the futile hunt for a unique "American
                            Spirit" which Frederick Jackson Turner began forty years ago
                            and in which he involved most of America's historical
                            scholars from that time until now.
                    
            
            With the contentions of the passage just quoted, aside from those of the last
                    sentence, "disciples" of Turner will not take issue seriously.
                    That the last sentence is sheer nonsense is being demonstrated and will continue
                    to be demonstrated by the aid which is being given and will continue to be given
                    during the years to come by the Turner host in the attempts to understand and
                    solve the problems of capitalism and imperalism. Turner said at the beginning
                    that the frontier had disappeared. He said truthfully many times that the vast
                    area of the 
                        United States
                     with all the sectional forces at work had not become a group of
                    nations after the pattern of Europe. He saw and understood the growth of
                    capitalism, the menace of developing classes, and the trend toward imperialism.
                    He gave many warnings that the rugged individualism of the frontier was playing
                    havoc with American democracy when carried into big business without regulation
                    by the Hills, Harrimans, and Morgans. He indulged a hope to the end of his life
                    that Americans, having passed through a period in which American institutions
                    had developed in the presence of a frontier zone that constantly shifted
                    westward, would be able to draw lessons and inspiration from their historical
                    experiences that would aid them in avoiding the pitfalls into which Europe had
                    fallen. The "disciples" of Turner have their shoulders to the
                    wheel and they will not fail to continue to play a part in the  historical investigations necessary to understand
                    the problems of today and tomorrow.
            The "Home Letters of George W. Julian" which appeared in the
                    June issue of this magazise proved interesting to numerous readers. Miss Louise
                    Phelps Kellog of the 
                        Wisconsin
                     State Historical Society pronounced them
                    "delightful." She was kind enough to furnish some information
                    about Charles Durkee whose name appeared in the Julians letters. Footnote 29, p.
                    138 (June issue) erroneously assigned Mr. Durkee to 
                        Vermont
                    . Though he was born in the Green Mountain State, ha migrated to 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and was, as Miss Kellogg explains, a Representative and later a
                    Free Soil Senator from that state. Footnote 29 of our last number should read:
                    "Wife of Charles Durkee, a Free Soiler, who was a Representative from 
                        Wisconsin
                     and later 
                        United States
                     Senator from that state.
            The fifteenth Annual Indian History Conference will be held at the Claypool Hotel
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on Friday and Saturday, December 8 and 9. This Conference is one of
                    the best established of the various annual meetings held in the state. Every
                    year the Society of Indiana Pioneers, The Indiana Historical Society and the
                    Indiana Historical Bureau co-operate to produce a successful Conference. The
                    forenoon session of Saturday is regularly given over to the History and Social
                    Science Section of the Indiana State Teachers Association. Invariably, at
                    several of the varied sessions, papers of high merit are presented. What with
                    breakfasts, luncheons, dinners, addreses and historical papers, the two days are
                    looked forward to with great interest. All sessions are open to the public. Few
                    who have ever been present at previous Conferences will want to miss the meeting
                    of the present year, and many who have not attended in the past will find
                    pleasure and profit in attending the coming Conference.
            Contributors to this issue: Dr. Theodore G. Gronert, is a professor of history
                    and head of the department of history at 
                        Wabash
                     College. George S. Cottman is a retired printer and writer who now
                    lives near 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana. He was the founder and first editor of the Indiana Magazine of History. H. S. K. Bartholomew is a veteran
                    newspaper man who is now  interested in a
                    fruit farm. His home, "Edgewood," is a short distance from 
                        Goshen
                    , Indiana. Dr. Louis A. Warren is Director of Historical Research,
                    Lincoln National Life Foundation, 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Indiana, who has gathered much material on the life of Lincoln and
                    who has carried on an extensive investigation of Lincoln's ancestors.
                    Louis J. Bailey is Director of the Indiana State Library, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana.
         
         
         
            Reprints
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of
                    History may be obtained by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be
                    furnished on request and an order placed for as many reprints of any article as
                    may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the article of which reprints are
                    desired is published.
         
         
            Wanted
            We hope that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications
                    listed below. The Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different
                    parts of the country are in need of copies of the issues mentioned in order to
                    complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above the regular rates will
                    be paid. Persons possessing any of the desired publications may write to the Indiana Magazine of History.
            
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a serious need of more
                    copies of the following numbers:
            
               
                  ∗Volume I, 3, 4 (Sept., Dec., 1905).
               Volume II, 2, 4 (June, Dec., 1906).
               Volume III, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1907)
               Volume IV, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1908).
               Volume V, 2, 3, 4 (June, Sept., Dec., 1909).
               Volume VI, 1, 3, 4 (March, Sept., Dec., 1910).
               Volume VII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1911).
               
                  ∗Volume VIII, 1, 2, 4 (March, June, Dec.,
                        1912).
               Volume IX, 1 (March, 1913).
               
                  ∗Volume X, 1 (March, 1914).
               
                  ∗ Volume XVII, 4 (Dec. 1921).
               Volume XVIII, 1 (March, 1922).
               Volume XXII, 1 (March, 1926).
            
            Full sets of the Magazine can rarely be supplied to libraries
                    or individuals who may desire to purchase. A complete file from 1920 forward can
                    be supplied at fifty cents a copy, or two dollars per volume, unbound; from 1914
                    to 1919, the price is one dollar per copy, or four dollars per volume. Issues
                    from 1905-1913, when they can be supplied at all, will be sold at one dollar and
                    a half per number.
            
            The Indiana University Library needs the following publications to complete its
                    files. Anyone having any of these publications will confer a great favor by
                    writing to W. A. Alexander, Librarian of Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            
                    The Indiana Alumnus
                    
                  Volume VI, 14 (Dec. 25, 1926). Wanted 3 copies.
                  Volume VI, 16 (Jan. 16, 1927). Wanted 2 copies.
               
                
            
               The Indiana University Catalogue. The University also needs the
                    following to fill out the files.
            
               1832-1833. Wanted 3 copies.
               1833-1834. Wanted 3 copies.
               1834-1835. Wanted 3 copies.
               1836-1837. Wanted 2 copies.
               1837-1838. Wanted 2 copies.
               1839-1840. Wanted 2 copies.
               1840-1841. Wanted 2 copies.
               1843-1844. Wanted 2 copies.
               1849-1850. Wanted 2 copies.
               1853-1854. Wanted 2 copies.
            
            
               The Indiana School Journal. Wanted Volume XXXVII (1892) and
                    Volume XXXVIII (1893).
            
               The Mennonite Quarterly Review. Wanted a copy of Vol. I, number
                    1.
         
      
      
         
      
   
