
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 82, Issue 4, pages 303-409. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:82+issue:4+year:1986&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Diesel Came to Indiana in the Horse–and–Buggy Days
            John W. Rowell∗
            
            Advertising and publicity of diesel automobiles during the last decade sometimes have made the diesel
                    engine appear to be a new technology. Diesel engines, however, have been manufactured in Indiana
                    since the horse-and-buggy days. From a shaky start in the 1910s, 1920s, and 1930s, diesel engine
                    manufacturing has grown into one of Indiana's largest industries. More heavy-duty diesels
                    of the type used in trucks and industrial machinery are built in Indiana than in all the rest of the 
                        United States
                    . They are built at the Cummins Engine Company plants in 
                        Columbus
                     and Seymour, the Caterpillar Tractor Company engine factory in 
                        Lafayette
                    , and the Navistar International and 
                        Detroit
                     Diesel-Allison plants in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In addition there are an unknown number of component plants, some owned by the above
                    companies but mostly independent companies, that supply parts to the engine factories. Cummins also
                    has its principal offices for both international and domestic business in 
                        Columbus
                    .
            The principles of the diesel engine were conceived by Dr. Rudolf Diesel, a German engineer who
                    received a patent from 
                        Germany
                     for his design of a compression-ignition, internal combustion engine in 1892. In 1893
                    Diesel publicized the theory behind his new engine in a paper entitled "Theory and
                    Construction of a Rational Heat Engine to Replace the Steam Engines and 
                  
                     ∗ John W. Rowell, a resident of 
                                Columbus
                            , Indiana, retired from Cummins Engine Company in 1982 after forty-one years in
                            engineering and marketing positions. During his last six years at Cummins he served as
                            corporate historian. Rowell is also the author of Yankee Cavalrymen: Through
                                the Civil War with the Nineth 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Cavalry (
                                Knoxville
                            , 1971) and Yankee Artillerymen: Through the Civil War with Eli
                                Lilly's Indiana Battery (
                                Knoxville
                            , 1975).
                  INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, LXXXII (December, 1986). © 1986, Trustees of
                            Indiana University.
               
                     the Currently Known Combustion Engines."
                    Diesel's theory began with the fact that air temperature rises when air is compressed in an
                    engine cylinder. If the air was compressed to a high pressure, Diesel thought, it would become hot
                    enough to ignite the fuel without using a spark or any other igniter. To avoid a premature explosion
                    of the fuel it would be introduced into the cylinder after the compression of the air was completed.
                    Diesel postulated that if the rate of fuel injection was controlled, the fuel would be burned at a
                    constant pressure and any extremely high pressures in the engine cylinder would be avoided.1
            
            Diesel's first two experimental engines were failures. In 1897, however, he succeeded in
                    building an engine that produced 17.8 horsepower at 154 revolutions per minute while working with
                    Maschinenfabrik Augsburg (now Machinenfabrik Augsburg-Nurnberg or MAN). Although heavy and bulky for
                    the amount of power developed, Diesel's engine was twice as efficient as other contemporary
                    internal combustion engines. In 1898, Diesel's licensees, MAN, Krupp, and Deutz, marketed
                    twenty-horsepower diesel engines. That same year Adolphus Busch, the 
                        St. Louis
                     brewer, acquired the North American rights to the diesel, and the first American-built
                    diesel engine was installed in the Busch brewery.2
            
            In Diesel's early engines the fuel was injected into the engine cylinder with a blast of
                    air, a method that required a bulky air compressor apparatus that absorbed 7 percent of the
                    engine's developed power and added to its complexity. Diesel soon began work on other
                    injection schemes, and with the expiration of his patents in 1907 other inventors also began to
                    search for simpler means of injecting the fuel. The goal then and through the early decades of the
                    twentieth century was to find a method whereby the fuel could be introduced into the cylinder more
                    rapidly. A more rapid introduction of fuel would increase engine speed which in turn would permit
                    the development of engines which were both more powerful and smaller and lighter.3
            
            
               
                  1 W. Robert Nitske and Charles Morrow Wilson, Rudolf Diesel:
                            Pioneer of the Age of Power (
                            Norman
                        , Okla., 1965), 77–82, 87–90, 93–101,
                        105–10.
               
                  2 Freidrich Schildberger, "50 Years of Mercedes-Benz Diesel
                        Engines" (n.p., n.d.), 1–3; C. Lyle Cummins, Jr., "Early I. C. and
                        Automotive Engines," Society of Automotive Engineers Transactions,
                        Vol. LXXXV, paper 760604 (Warrendale, Pa., 1976), 1966–67; Nitske and Wilson, Diesel, 104–10, 124–26. On Busch's failure to
                        successfully exploit and develop Diesel's engine in America, see Richard H. Lytle,
                        "The Introduction of Diesel Power in the 
                            United States
                        , 1897–1912," Business History Review, XLII
                        (Summer, 1968), 115–45.
               
                  3 Nitske and Wilson, Diesel, 80–81, passim; Hans L. Knudsen, "History and Development of Cummins
                        Engines," manuscript, circa 1972 (Cummins Engine Company, 
                            Columbus
                        , Indiana). Knudsen became Cummins's chief engineer in 1922 and retired as
                        vice-president of engineering in 1947.
            
            
            Most of the early injection schemes involved the use of a cup, called a precombustion chamber,
                    located next to the cylinder and connected to it with one or more holes. A measured amount of fuel
                    was metered into the cup during the engine's air intake stroke. As the air was compressed
                    in the cylinder during the compression stroke, some of it passed through the hole or holes into the
                    cup and vaporized the light fractions of the fuel. At the top of the piston stroke the air became
                    hot enough to ignite the vapor thereby causing an explosion in the cup which drove the remainder of
                    the fuel into the engine cylinder where the main combustion took place.4
            
            One of the most promising of these early precombustion systems was patented by Jan Brons, founder of
                    present-day Brons Industrie of Appledam, The Netherlands. When properly adjusted the Brons engine
                    operated on a true diesel cycle with constant pressure during combustion. This fact made it a smooth
                    running engine. Rasmus M. Hvid, a Dane, obtained the U.S. rights to the Brons
                    engine—probably as Brons's agent—and began to license American
                    companies to build oil engines, as diesels were then called.5
            
            A Brons/Hvid engine was probably the first diesel engine seen in 
                        Columbus
                    , a city where more than a million diesel engines would eventually be made. The engine
                    was installed in the Schaefer and Schwartzkopf flour mill at Third and 
                        California
                     streets in 1915. In an article in the Evening Republican it was
                    described as "a strange new engine" that had no ignition system and burned
                    "any kind of fuel that will run." Called an H and O engine, it was built in St.
                    Marys, 
                        Ohio
                    . The engine could generate sixty horsepower and was about the size of a gasoline
                    engine. This early diesel engine the 
                        Columbus
                     paper described was one of a line of engines ranging in size from two to sixty
                    horsepower designed by Hans L. Knudsen, chief engineer of the St. Marys Machine Company and later a
                    major figure in the development of the Cummins diesel engine.6
            
            While the diesel engine was undergoing these early developments, two chains of events began in
                    Indiana that ultimately led to the establishment of diesel manufacturing in the Hoosier state. The
                    first chain began in 1902 when William H. McCurdy organized the Hercules Buggy Company in 
                        Evansville
                     and began 
                  
                     4 Knudsen, "History"; Schildberger, "50
                            Years," 5–8.
                  
                     5 Knudsen, "History"; Brons Industrie, Appledam, The
                            Netherlands, letter to author, June 18, 1980. The only information found on Hvid Engineering
                            Co. was its listings in various 
                                Chicago
                             city directories.
                  
                     6
                            
                                Columbus
                            
                            Evening Republican, July 22, 1915; Knudsen,
                        "History."
               
                     to build buggies and other horse-drawn vehicles; eventually,
                    offering seventy-two styles ranging from simple carts and wagons to surreys with fringe on the top.
                    McCurdy was born in 
                  Washington, Pennsylvania
               , in 1853. His first profession was that of
                    journeyman millwright, but he gave it up at the age of twenty-two to become a traveling salesman. In
                    1879 he established a successful real estate and insurance business in 
                        Kansas City
                    , 
                        Missouri
                    , but ten years later he left this business to take the job of secretary of the Favorite
                    Carriage Company in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . In 1894 he started the Brighton Buggy Company in 
                        Cincinnati
                     and operated it until he organized the Hercules company, moving his Brighton
                    company's assets and key people to 
                        Evansville
                    . McCurdy chose 
                        Evansville
                     as the location of the new company because of the abundance of hardwood in the area and
                    the availability of skilled labor since Evansville was a furniture manufacturing center.7
            
            Hercules was originally capitalized at three hundred thousand dollars and began operations in a new
                    thirty-two thousand square foot, three-story brick factory at the intersection of Morton Avenue and
                    the Southern Railroad tracks. The company's first buggy was completed on January 31, 1903.
                    The nucleus of the work force was forty executives and craftsmen that McCurdy brought with him from
                    Brighton. Additional workers were hired in 
                        Evansville
                     as the business expanded. Skilled craftsmen were paid $3.00 to
                    $4.00 a day; laborers, about $1.75. Hercules made all of the parts for the
                    buggies and other vehicles except for the axles and springs, which were purchased from Hess Spring
                    and Axle Company of 
                  Carthage, Ohio
               , a company owned by Mc-Curdy's
                        father-in-law.8 Most of Hercules vehicles were sold to Sears, Roebuck and
                    Company for resale through their mail-order catalogue, although Hercules also sold through other
                    channels.
            During the next decade the buggy company expanded rapidly and in 1912 was recapitalized at
                    $1.5 million. Also the Hercules Body Company (1906) and the Hercules Wheel Company (1909)
                    were incorporated as separate entities but with essentially the same ownership, McCurdy being the
                    principal owner.9
                    
                  
                     7 Ed Klinger, How a City Founded to Make Money Made
                            It (
                                Evansville
                            , Ind., n.d.), 49–55; 
                                Evansville
                            
                            Journal, March 25, 1921; 
                                Evansville
                            
                            Courier, May 11, 1947.
                  
                     8 Miscellaneous Record Books, E (1901–1906), p. 130, 
                                Vanderburgh County
                             Recorders Office, 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana; 
                                Evansville
                            
                            Courier, May 11, 1947.
                  
                     9 Miscellaneous Record Books, F (1906–1909), p. 139, 
                                Vanderburgh County
                             Recorders Office, 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana; Miscellaneous Record Books, G (1909–1912), p. 20, 
                                Vanderburgh County
                             Recorders Office, 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana.
               
                    
                    
                  
                            A 1920 HERCULES ADVERTISEMENT
                     
                        
                  Courtesy University of Southern Indiana, 
                                Evansville
                            .
               
                     At the urging of Sears, Roebuck and Company the body company
                    was established to make bodies for automobiles marketed by Sears. Later the company also built
                    bodies for post office trucks, for commercial trucks, and for military trucks used during World War
                        I.10
            
            In 1908 Sears, Roebuck began to sell gasoline engines of two to ten horsepower for farm and other
                    uses. These engines were marketed under the Sears trade name Economy. Sears's 1910 fall
                    catalogue stated, "We own and operate our own gasoline engine factory," but
                    another, later source indicates that the engines were built for Sears by the Sparta Gas Engine
                    Company of Sparta, 
                        Michigan
                    .11 Whatever their origins, Sears became dissatisfied with the
                    quality and cost of the engines and asked Hercules to manufacture a line of gasoline engines for
                    them.
            In response to this request the Hercules Gas Engine Company was organized in 1913 with a
                    capitalization of two hundred fifty thousand dollars. A new factory eight hundred feet long and one
                    hundred fifty feet wide was built to produce the engines. The factory manager of this engine plant
                    was Vincent E. McMullen, who later would become an executive of Cummins Engine Company. In its 1915
                    fall catalogue Sears stated, "we just recently built [this new factory] at 
                        Evansville
                    , Ind., for the manufacture of our new Improved Model Economy Engines." The new
                    factory was a success. It produced three hundred fifty thousand engines in its first eight years.
                    Most of these engines were marketed through Sears, but Hercules also sold some of the engines
                    directly to other customers.12
            
            Sometime after the Economy engines went into production at the Hercules factory, W. M. Tippett,
                    manager of Sears's engine department, concluded that there was a market for oil engines in
                    rural America because these engines could run on kerosene, which was more available than gasoline in
                    rural areas. Consequently, Tippett obtained a license for Sears from R. M. Hvid to manufacture oil
                    engines and contracted with Hercules to design and manufacture a line of single-,
                    horizontal-cylinder oil engines. Four engines, ranging in size from 1$1/2 to 8
                    horsepower, were designed by Hercules's engineers under the direct supervision of an
                    engineer from Hvid's company and under the 
                  
                     10 Klinger, How a City Founded, 53.
                  
                     11
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Courier, May 11, 1947; Sears, Roebuck & Company, to the author,
                            March 27, 1985.
                  
                     12 Miscellaneous Record Books, H (1912–1917), pp. 86, 166, 
                                Vanderburgh County
                             Recorders Office, 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana; 
                                Evansville
                            
                            Journal, March 25, 1921; Sears, Roebuck & Company, to the author,
                            March 27, 1985; Knudsen, "History."
               
                     general direction of H. L. Knudsen, who was then
                    Hvid's chief engineer responsible for the designs of Hvid's licensees. The design
                    and development of the oil engines proceeded rapidly, and Sears was able to list the eight
                    horsepower model in their 1919 fall catalogue.13
            
            The second chain of events that led to diesel engine manufacturing in Indiana began in 
                        Columbus
                     in 1908 when nineteen-year-old Clessie Cummins became William G. Irwin's
                    chauffeur. William G. Irwin was born in 1866, the son of Joseph I. Irwin. The elder Irwin had come
                    to 
                        Columbus
                     in 1846 with thirty cents in his pocket and built a fortune in local real estate,
                    merchandising, and banking. William joined his father in the various family enterprises after his
                    graduation from 
                        Butler
                     University in 1889 and began to broaden the family's local investments to the
                    state and national levels. The family's first venture beyond the 
                        Columbus
                     area was an investment in the National Tin Plate Company of Anderson, Indiana, in 1894.
                    William H. Donner, the organizer of the company, recalled that "Will Irwin, who was a close
                    friend, agreed to put in $5,000 and Joseph I. Irwin subscribed $20,000, which
                    pleased me as the latter practically confined all his investments to 
                        Bartholomew County
                    ." Three years later, when a second mill was built at Monesson, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , Mr. and Mrs. Z. T. Sweeney, Joseph Irwin's daughter and son-in-law, also
                    invested in the firm. In 1899 the company was sold to the American Tin Plate Company, and Donner,
                    the Irwins, and the Sweeneys made a large profit.14 That same year the Irwins
                    began construction of the 
                  Indianapolis, Columbus
               , and Southern, the first interurban electric
                    railroad to enter 
                        Indianapolis
                    . They operated this enterprise at a profit until 1912 when they sold the business but
                    leased the right-of-way for 999 years.15
            
            In the years following these initial nonlocal investments the Irwins continued to diversify and
                    expand their financial holdings. Even before Joseph's death in 1910 William had assumed
                    full responsibility for managing the family investments. During the first two decades of the
                    twentieth century, William founded the Union Starch and Refining Company, a leading corn syrup
                    manufacturer, and acquired large interests in the Union Trust Company of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Gas Company, the 
                  
                     13 Knudsen, "History"; Sears, Roebuck
                                & Co. Catalogue, Fall, 1919, 1441–43.
                  
                     14 William H. Donner, The Autobiography of William Henry
                                Donner, 1864–1953 (
                                San Francisco
                            , 1973), 47–49, 72.
                  
                     15 Richard H. Gemmecke, "W. G. Irwin and Hugh Thomas Miller:
                            A Study in Free Enterprise in Indiana" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History,
                            Indiana University, 1955), 1–5, 9–11, 17–19,
                            99–101.
               
                    
                    
                  CLESSIE L. CUMMINS, ORGANIZER OF
                                CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY AND ITS PRESIDENT FROM 1919 TO 1947
                  Courtesy Cummins Engine Company.
               
                    
                    
                  WILLIAM GLANTON IRWIN, THE COLUMBUS BANKER AND INDUSTRIALIST
                                WHO FINANCED CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY THROUGH ITS FIRST SEVENTEEN PROFITLESS YEARS
                  
                  Courtesy Cummins Engine Company.
               
                    
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     Belt Railroad, and the 
                        Van
                     Camp Packing Company.16 In 1928 Clessie Cummins noted in a letter
                    to a friend that, "Mr. [William] Irwin is one of the wealthiest, if not the wealthiest man
                    in the State of Indiana."17
            
            Clessie Lyle Cummins was born in 1888. He came to 
                        Columbus
                     in the summer of 1904 when his father Francis, a cooper, moved his business and family
                    there. Because barrel making required high-quality elm wood for hoops, Francis's business
                    and family moved whenever the supply in an area was exhausted. As a result Clessie attended thirteen
                    schools in Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                     without completing the eighth grade and lost any interest he might have had in formal
                    schooling. Thus, immediately after he turned sixteen on December 27, 1904, he dropped out of school
                    and got his real education working in automobile factories in 
                  Columbus, Indianapolis
               , and 
                        Hagerstown
                    , Indiana. Having a great mechanical aptitude and interest in machinery, Clessie found
                    working in the pioneer car industry exciting.18
            
            At the time Cummins became Irwin's chauffeur the occupation of chauffeur ing was a warm
                    weather occupation. Thus, when Irwin's Packard was up on blocks during the winter, Irwin
                    employed Cummins in other jobs at Irwin's bank, on the inter-urban cars, and at the starch
                    plant. During some winters young Clessie worked in 
                        Indianapolis
                     automobile plants. In 1913 he decided to go into the automobile repair business, and
                    Irwin gave him the use of an abandoned mill building to house his new shop. Two years later Irwin
                    built a new family garage much larger than needed for the family's cars and suggested that
                    Clessie use half of it for his repair shop and maintain the family's cars as the rent
                    payment. Cummins quickly agreed to Irwin's proposal.19
            
            In 1917 Cummins decided to go into the machine shop business, and Irwin financed the purchase of
                    machinery for the new business, which was located in Clessie's half of Irwin's
                    garage. Irwin also became a salesman and wrote letters to machine tool companies soliciting
                    business. In his letters he told prospective customers that Cummins's shop had a screw
                    machine with a wire feed, heavy-duty lathes with eleven-, thirteen-, and sixteen-inch swing, a
                    milling machine, a planer, a hand miller, and drill presses. There is no record that
                    Irwin's solicitation brought any 
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., 18–19, 41, 65; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, December 15, 1943.
                  
                     17 Clessie L. Cummins to A. D. Nast, May 17, 1928, Reel 48, No. 3,
                            Vol. 121. Irwin Estate Files (Irwin Management Company, 
                                Columbus
                            , Indiana).
                  
                     18 Clessie L. Cummins, My Days with the Diesel (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1967), 35–45.
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., 46–55, 62–63, 75–78.
               
                     business, but shortly after America entered World War I in
                    April, 1917, Cummins received a large contract for the machining of artillery-wagon hubs. By
                    September his shop was running full-blast, twenty-four hours a day. When the Irwin, Sweeney, and
                    Miller family members returned from their annual vacation, they found that their family cars had
                    been moved to a public garage to make more room for Cummins's work and that their yard had
                    been stacked with castings. They decided that the shop had to be moved, and it was soon relocated
                    into a part of the former Cerealine mill near Seventh and Jackson streets in 
                        Columbus
                    .20
            
            As his military orders dwindled during the summer of 1918, Cummins began to solicit civilian
                    business. Among his new customers was Hercules Gas Engine Company. Being an inquisitive fellow,
                    Cummins asked about the oil engines Hercules engineers were designing and learned that he also might
                    obtain a license to build Hvid-type engines. Consequently, in November he visited the Hvid
                    Engineering Company in 
                        Chicago
                    . The performance of the engines impressed Cummins, and he learned that he could indeed
                    obtain a license to manufacture them for a fee of twenty-five hundred dollars and a royalty of five
                    dollars per engine produced.21
            
            Cummins did not have the capital needed to equip an engine plant, but he received a promise of
                    financial backing from Irwin after he discussed the possibilities of the oil engine business with
                    him. He then proceeded with the organization of the Cummins Engine Company. Irwin had backed Cummins
                    in his early, small businesses because of what the latter termed "a parental-like fondness
                    for me."22 Irwin, however, had an additional reason for financing
                    Cummins's new engine company: he wanted to improve the depressed economy of 
                        Columbus
                     by starting a new industry in the city. The city's largest industrial concern,
                    Reeves and Company, manufacturers of threshing machines and 
                  
                            
                        20
                                Ibid., 75–78; W. G. Irwin correspondence with seven machine
                                tool companies, March 1–9, 1917, Reel 27, No. 9, Vol. 71, Irwin Estate Files;
                                W. G. Irwin, draft of "History of Cummins Engine Co.," circa 1943,
                                Reel 85, No. 1, Vol. 212, ibid. The Irwin household included W. G.
                                Irwin, his sister Mrs. Linnie Sweeney, her daughters Nettie (Mrs. Hugh Thomas Miller)
                                and Elsie, Hugh Thomas Miller, and the Millers' children Clementine and Joseph
                                Irwin. Gemmecke, "Irwin," 32–42.
                            During the 1880s the Cerealine mill manufactured Cerealine, which is believed to have
                                been the world's first dry breakfast cereal. See History of 
                                        Bartholomew County
                                    , Indiana (1888; reprint, 
                                    Columbus
                                , Ind., 1976), 159. The main building of the Cerealine mill has been
                                restored by Cummins Engine Company as part of its new corporate offices.
                        
                  
                     21 Cummins, My Days, 79–80; Knudsen,
                            "History."
                  
                     22 Cummins, My Days, 62.
               
                    
                    
                  CLESSIE CUMMIN'S SON BRAINARD INSPECTS THE FIRST MACHINE TOOL PURCHASED FOR THE MACHINE SHOP IN IRWIN'S
                                GARAGE, IN 1917
                  Courtesy Brainard Cummins Collection, 
                                Columbus
                            , Ind.
               
                     steam traction engines, had cut production and laid off
                    employees after being sold to Emerson-Brantingham, a farm machinery conglomerate, in 1912, and the
                    city's economy had not recovered from this blow.23
            
            On January 30, 1919, Cummins publicly announced his plans to form an engine company at a meeting of
                    the 
                        Columbus
                     Chamber of Commerce. The next day the Evening Republican reflected
                    Cummins's enthusiasm in a lead article with the headline: "COLUMBUS TO BE HOME OF
                    ENGINE BUILT TO BURN ANY KIND OF OIL AND OPERATE REGARDLESS OF COLD." A supplementary
                    headline claimed: "UNLIMITED DEMAND ALREADY ASSURED." The newspaper reported that
                    the new company would occupy all three floors of the old Cerealine mill then occupied by Cummins
                    Machine Works. The new company would benefit 
                        Columbus
                     beyond its direct employment because all castings and many other parts were to be
                    purchased from local companies. Additionally, the company was to be entirely locally owned, and
                    indeed some thirty 
                        Columbus
                     residents subscribed for the initial offering of fifty thousand dollars of common
                        stock.24
            
            Later that same year when the capitalization of the company was increased to one hundred thousand
                    dollars, most of the original shareholders doubled their investment, and some new subscribers bought
                    shares. When all the shares had been paid for, Irwin owned 36 percent of the company's
                    stock. Cummins owned 20 percent of the stock, which he had received in return for the assets of his
                    machine shop. The remainder of the stock was owned by Columbus investors except for a small number
                    of undistributed shares. The original employees of the engine company were the eight men and one
                    woman who had been the work force of Cummins Machine Works. Additional workers were added during
                    1919, including people with needed skills. In May an engineering department was started with the
                    hiring of Cummins's brother-in-law Joseph E. McCoy as draftsman. In midsummer Carl Hertel,
                    a tool maker, was hired to become plant superintendent. Clessie knew who he wanted to run the plant:
                    he was at the train station to greet Hertel and offer him the job 
                  
                     23
                            
                                Columbus
                            
                            Evening Republican, July 24, 1912.
                  
                     24
                            
                                Columbus
                            
                            Evening Republican, January 31, 1919. For more on the early history of
                            Cummins Engine Company, see Richard H. Gemmecke, "A Long, Long Pull: Cummins
                            Diesel's Early Years," Indiana Magazine of History, L
                            (June, 1954), 93–104.
               
                    
                    
                  THE CEREALINE MILL IN THE 1880S. IN 1919 CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY BEGAN OPERATIONS IN THE THREE-STORY PART ON THE RIGHT. THE TALLER
                                SECTION ON THE LEFT WAS RECENTLY RESTORED AS A PART OF CUMMINS'S CORPORATE OFFICE
                  
                  Courtesy 
                                Bartholomew County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Columbus
                            , Ind.
               
                     of plant superintendent when the latter arrived in 
                        Columbus
                     after his discharge from the army.25
            
            As part of his license agreement Cummins received engine design plans, and by April, 1919, Cummins
                    had built his first engine, a six horsepower model identical to the one designed by Hercules. While
                    experimenting with this first engine, Cummins invented a means of mechanically controlling the
                    timing of ignition in the precombustion chamber. This invention corrected the problem of erratic
                    ignition caused by the wide variation in the quality of the fuels available at that time. Cummins
                    was granted his first diesel engine patent for his invention. He sold this first six horsepower
                    engine in September, and by the end of the company's fiscal year in February, 1920, he had
                    sold a total of twenty-two engines.26
            
            While Clessie Cummins was experimenting with his first engine, Sears, Roebuck was making its 1920
                    sales projections. When Sears informed Hercules of its requirements, the latter found that they did
                    not have enough production capacity to build all of the diesel engines and all of the gasoline
                    engines that they and Sears needed. To resolve this dilemma H. L. Knudsen recalled that
                    "Mac [V. E. McMullen] recommended to Mr. Tippett that they find someone else to build the 1
                    1/2 and 3 horsepower Hvid engines, and for the job he recommended C. L. Cummins." As a
                    result of this recommendation "Mr. Tippett and McMullen … [went] to 
                        Columbus
                     and met with Mr. W. G. Irwin and C. L. to discuss the matter and it was quickly
                    arranged that C. L. would build the 1 1/2 and 3 horsepower engines."27
            
            In his memoirs Cummins recalled that Tippett was accompanied by his assistant B. F. Watson and an
                    engineer E. B. Blakely. They were favorably impressed with Cummins's new shop and the six
                    horsepower engine on the shop's test stand. Tippett proposed that Cummins build forty-five
                    hundred of the 1 1/2 and 3 horsepower engines. "The proposition nearly took my breath
                    away," Cummins later wrote. "Visions of instant success started swimming in my
                    head." Cummins did, however, question whether the two engine models, which had never been
                    built or 
                  
                     25 Cummins Engine Company Capital Account Ledger, 1919–1925
                            (Cummins Engine Company); Cummins Engine Company Payroll Ledger, 1919, ibid.; Carl Hertel, interview with author, 
                                Columbus
                            , Indiana, 1977. Hertel left Cummins in 1924. He later invented the sole used on
                            the Converse basketball shoe and manufactured Chuck Taylor knee guards. Chuck Taylor was 
                                Columbus
                            's basketball star of that era and is listed in the basketball hall of
                            fame.
                  
                     26 Irwin to National Lead Company, April 16, 1919, Reel 27, No. 9,
                            Vol. 71, Irwin Estate Files; Cummins Engine Company Sales Analysis Ledger, 1919 (Cummins
                            Engine Company); Cummins, My Days, 89.
                  
                     27 Knudsen, "History."
               
                    
                    
                  ADVERTISEMENT FOR THE CUMMINS-BUILT
                            1 1/2 AND 3 HORSEPOWER THERMOIL ENGINES IN THE 1920 SEARS, ROEBUCK AND COMPANY FALL CATALOGUE
                  
                  Courtesy Sears, Roebuck and Company
               
                    
                    
                  ADVERTISEMENT FOR THE HERCULES-BUILT
                            6 AND 8 HORSEPOWER THERMOIL ENGINES
                            IN THE 1920 SEARS, ROEBUCK AND COMPANY FALL CATALOGUE
                  
                  Courtesy Sears, Roebuck and Company.
               
                     tested, would run properly. In response to his apprehension he
                    was told, "We've sold thousands of the larger engines and we know what
                    we're doing." Reassured by this statement, Cummins discussed the Sears proposal
                    with Irwin, then agreed to accept it and a proposal to sell fuel injectors with his new timing
                    device to Hercules for use on its six and eight horsepower diesel engines. As a result of the latter
                    agreement Cummins sold fourteen thousand dollars of fuel injectors to Hercules during 1919 and
                        1920.28
            
            Since Sears planned to sell the engines through their sales order catalogue and not offer any
                    service, it was anxious to sell them at as low a price as possible. To meet its price objectives
                    Sears asked Cummins to commit to his vendors for all parts for the entire order, and on this basis
                    he calculated his production costs. After having his calculations checked, at Irwin's
                    request, by Quentin G. Noblitt, he went to 
                        Chicago
                     and finalized his contract with Sears.29
            
            Sears was able to list Cummins's 11/2 and 3 horsepower engines and Hercules's 6 and
                    8 horsepower engines in its spring, 1920, catalogue. The basic models of these engines were equipped
                    to run on kerosene, but an optional arrangement that allowed the engines to run on crude oil was
                    available also. Marketed under the Sears tradename of Thermoil, the engines were sold under terms of
                    cash with the order or "$5.00 with order—Thirty Days
                    Trial—Ten Months to Pay." The prices and specifications published by Sears in
                    its catalogue were:30
            
            
               
                  Engine size (in horsepower)
                  1 1/2
                  3
                  6
                  8
               
               
                  Cylinder bore (in inches)
                  3
                  3 7/8
                  5
                  5 3/4
               
               
                  Piston stroke (in inches)
                  4 1/2
                  5 1/2
                  7 1/2
                  9
               
               
                  Speed (in r.p.m.)
                  600
                  600
                  500
                  450
               
               
                  Weight (in pounds)
                  323
                  615
                  1100
                  1500
               
               
                  Cash with order Monthly payment
                  $125
                  $195
                  $265
                  $318
               
               
                  Monthly payment plan
                  $137
                  $215
                  $292
                  $350
               
            
            
               
                  28 Cummins Engine Company Sales Analysis Ledger, 1919–1920
                        (Cummins Engine Company); Cummins, My Days, 83–84.
               
                  29 Q. G. Noblitt to Irwin, October 14, 1919, Reel 27, No. 9, Vol. 71,
                        Irwin Estate Files. In January, 1919, Noblitt organized the 
                            Indianapolis
                         Air Pump Company, which eventually became Arvin Industries, 
                            Columbus
                        's second homegrown Fortune 500 company. Coke Coons, Arvin… The First Sixty Years (
                            Columbus
                        , Ind., 1982), xii, 4.
               
                  30
                        Sears, Roebuck & Co. Catalogue, Fall, 1920,
                    1402–1403.
            
            
            The Sears catalogue listing brought an influx of orders before Cummins was able to produce the
                    engines. In September, 1920, B. F. Watson complained, "Mr. Cummins is gradually building up
                    an organization, but I don't believe he realizes the importance of the position he is in as
                    he is holding some 400 of our orders, the oldest of which dates back to the 14th of January and yet
                    this condition does not seem to worry him in the least." In his report on
                    Cummins's operation E. B. Blakely suggested that some of the reasons for Cummins's
                    slowness in starting production were: weak management; the purchase of all castings from a small,
                    inefficient, and "thoroughly unionized" company; and the lack of tool and jig
                    equipment resulting from Cummins's attempts to save money by having only two toolmakers to
                    fabricate all his equipment. Eventually, however, Cummins's production levels did begin to
                    improve. In August, 1920, 80 of the 1 1/2 horsepower engines were produced along with 5 of the 3
                    horsepower engines and 305 injectors for the Hercules engines. In December, 1920, 110 of the smaller
                    engines and a nearly equal number of the larger engines were produced.31
            
            Unfortunately, the size of Cummins's organization at the height of his production for Sears
                    cannot be known because the payroll records for this period are missing from the early ledgers.
                    Hiring procedures were not very sophisticated at Cummins Engine Company in its early days.
                    "All they did was write your name and clock number on a card and that was it," E.
                    Don Tull recalled concerning his own hiring. "I went to work there running a drill press
                    and one day the truant officer came around. He said, ‘That boy isn't old enough
                    to work in a machine shop.’ I was only 14 1/2." Tull was consequently reassigned
                    to the task of recording data on the test block and was not allowed to operate machinery.32
            
            In January, 1921, more engines were being returned from Sears than were being shipped by Cummins. One
                    of the reasons for the high number of returned machines was Sears's easy payment plan. Many
                    farmers realized that they could order an engine, use it for thirty days, return it, and have their
                    down payment and freight charges refunded. One Cummins employee 
                  
                     31 Cummins Engine Company Sales Analysis Ledger, 1920 (Cummins Engine
                            Company); W. M. Tippett to Irwin, October 20, 1920, letter with reports by E. B. Blakely and
                            B. F. Watson attached, Reel 34, No. 6, Vol. 88, Irwin Estate Files; Cummins, My
                                Days, 83–85.
                  
                     32 E. Don Tull, interview with author, Scottsdale, 
                                Arizona
                            , 1978. Tull was laid off in 1921 but returned to Cummins Engine Company as a
                            machinist in 1928 and became president of the company in 1959.
               
                     of that period recalled that most of the returned engines would
                    run "just like a new one."33 Another reason for the high
                    number of returns was mechanical failure. In some cases the problem was that farmers failed to clean
                    the injectors when they became clogged by an accumulation of carbon. As one Cummins employee
                    recalled, "The farmers expected the engines to run [without maintenance] and they
                        didn't"34 In many other cases, however, the machines were
                    defective. One defect in the machines was their tendency to run out of control at too great a speed
                    and thereby come apart. Carl Hertel recalled seeing an example of this runaway defect while showing
                    a customer how to operate the engine. "We were talking over against a horse stall when the
                    engine ran away and the flywheel cut through the boards."35
            
            The fact that the machines were defective became apparent after only a few months. Sears, however,
                    decided to continue to try to sell the engines since both Hercules and Cummins had large inventories
                    of components they had purchased in advance at Sears's request. In 1921 Sears discontinued
                    installment sales of the engines and sold them on a cash with order basis only. To make the engines
                    more attractive to potential buyers the prices of the 1 1/2 and 3 horsepower models were cut to
                    $79.50 and $106.50, respectively; the ratings of the 6 and 8 horsepower
                    engines were increased to 7 and 9 horsepower; and the prices of the latter two engines were reduced
                    to $195.50 for the smaller of the two and $259.95 for the larger. Even at the
                    new low prices the engines did not sell in significant numbers. After the first quarter of 1921
                    Cummins Engine Company did not ship any engines to Sears or fuel injectors to Hercules. Sears did
                    continue to list the Thermoil engines in its 1922 and 1923 catalogues, but whatever orders they
                    received they apparently filled with engines already in stock.36
            
            The Thermoil engine fiasco did not hurt Hercules very much because of the size and diversity of the
                    Hercules enterprises. In fact, in 1920 the Hercules companies had a combined net profit of four
                    hundred forty-eight thousand dollars from the sale of 
                  
                     33 Raymond Smock, interview with author, 
                                Columbus
                            , Indiana, 1977. Smock was a machinist. Later he was owner of Southern Machine
                            Company in 
                                Columbus
                            .
                  
                     34 Raymond C. Frohman, interview with author, 
                                Columbus
                            , Indiana, 1977. Frohman was Cummins's bookkeeper from 1920 to 1925.
                            Later he was a partner in 
                                Columbus
                             Products Company and CP Electronics.
                  
                     35 Interview with Hertel.
                  
                     36
                            Sears, Roebuck and Co. Catalogue, Fall, 1921, 1172–73; Cummins
                            Engine Company Sales Analysis Ledger, 1920-1925 (Cummins Engine Company).
               
                    
                    
                  HANS L. KNUDSEN, CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY'S CHIEF ENGINEER AND VICE-PRESIDENT OF ENGINEERING FROM 1922 TO 1947
                  Courtesy Cummins Engine Company.
               
                     forty-eight thousand engines, sixty thousand buggies, and
                    twenty-nine thousand vehicle cabs and bodies. Late in the same year these companies were
                    consolidated to form Hercules Corporation, which had a capitalization of eight million dollars. They
                    also issued $1.5 million of notes, repayable with gold, for additional working capital
                    and to expand engine plant capacity to eighty-five thousand engines annually. At the time Hercules
                    occupied thirty-one acres of ground and claimed that it was the largest vehicle factory in the
                    world. The new Hercules Corporation ceased making diesel engines and added furniture and
                    refrigerators to the products it produced. By 1925 Hercules had discontinued its production of
                    buggies and made household refrigerators, marketed under the tradename Serv-el, its principal
                    product. This shift in product emphasis was reflected by Hercules Corporation's decision to
                    change its name to the Servel Manufacturing Company in 1926.37
            
            Cummins Engine Company did not weather the Thermoil disaster as well as Hercules. The company was
                    especially hard hit because the problems with the Thermoil engines coincided with the
                    company's difficulties with its first marine engine. During the time Cummins Engine Company
                    was making engines for Sears, Clessie developed a single-cylinder marine engine that produced eight
                    horsepower. Cummins personally demonstrated his engine to Gulf Coast fishermen in early 1921 and was
                    able to sell several of them. Soon, however, it became apparent that this engine suffered from the
                    same runaway defect as the Thermoil engines. According to Cummins's autobiography,
                    "The crankshaft counterweights were flying off, cutting engines apart, taking out the sides
                    of boats, and shearing tops off boat cabins."38 Thus, by mid-1921
                    Cummins had nothing to sell except machine shop capacity. For the next three years
                    Cummins's sales were usually less than one hundred dollars per month, and the
                    company's losses were covered by loans from Irwin family funds.39
            
            Naturally, the original shareholders became very discouraged during these lean years. Raymond
                    Frohman, the Cummins Engine Company's bookkeeper, noted that when any of them brought their
                    shares into Irwin's bank, they were paid the full one hundred dollars per share
                    subscription price by W. G. Irwin. 
                  
                     37 Hercules Corporation Prospectus, December 20, 1920, Reel 31, No. 8,
                            Vol. 81, Irwin Estate Files; 
                                Evansville
                            
                            Journal, March 25, 1921; 
                                Evansville
                            
                            Courier, May 11, 1947.
                  
                     38 Cummins, My Days, 92.
                  
                     39 Cummins Engine Company Sales Analysis Ledger, 1920–1925
                            (Cummins Engine Company).
               
                     According to Frohman only three of the original shareholders
                    held onto their stock while the rest sold their shares to Irwin. As a result the Irwin family came
                    to control 75 percent of the common stock of Cummins Engine Company. After the deaths of Irwin and
                    his sister Linnie Sweeney the Irwin family stock was inherited by Sweeney's grandchildren
                    J. Irwin Miller and his sister Clementine.40
            
            Fortunately for the future of the diesel industry in Indiana, Clessie Cummins had not run out of
                    ideas and W. G. Irwin had not run out of money. In late 1921 Cummins came up with an idea for an
                    improved fuel injector. "He tried to explain the idea to me with the result that when he
                    said that it would cost $10,000 to prove the idea, I told him that I would furnish the
                    money," W. G. Irwin wrote many years later. "The idea turned out to be an
                    improvement but it was not enough; so he got another idea and another $10,000 and these
                    ideas and 10,000s continued for quite a period until he made a discovery for which he received basic
                    patent protection."41
            
            Before putting up the first ten thousand dollars, however, Irwin had Cummins invite H. L. Knudsen to 
                        Columbus
                     to give an opinion on the feasibility of the new concept. When Knudsen told Irwin and
                    Cummins that the idea would work but would require a lot of research to make it operate
                    satisfactorily, they asked Knudsen to join the company as chief engineer and to develop the idea.
                    Knudsen agreed and began his career at Cummins Engine Company in January, 1922.42
            
            All of 1922 and 1923 were spent by Cummins and Knudsen developing and testing injectors. After about
                    a year of experimenting they abandoned the precombustion chamber concept because they could not
                    prevent carbon formation in the cup. The alternative they developed was a unique arrangement that
                    injected the fuel directly into the combustion chamber; thus, doing away with the precombustion
                    chamber. An engine with the new injector was placed on the market in 1924. Designated Model F, the
                    new engine proved to be an excellent engine for marine propulsion and electric power generation. It
                    also proved to be very durable: some being kept in use for more than forty years.43
            
            
               
                  40 Interview with Frohman; Cummins Engine Company, Prospectus for Sale of
                        Common and Preferred Stock, 1947 (Cummins Engine Company).
               
                  41 W. G. Irwin, draft of "History of Cummins Engine
                        Co.," circa 1943, Reel 85, No. 1, Vol. 212, Irwin Estate Files.
               
                  42 Knudsen, "History."
               
                  43
                        Ibid.; John W. Rowell, "Yesterday's Restored Engines Hum All
                        the Way to the Bank," Power Team, IX (November/December, 1981), 14,
                        18; interview with Smock. During this period Smock made all injectors tested under
                        Knudsen's direction.
            
            
            
               CUMMIN'S 1931 DUSENBERG RACE
                            CAR THAT FINISHED THE INDIANAPOLIS 500-MILE RACE WITHOUT A PIT STOP. CLESSIE CUMMINS is STANDING BEHIND THE CAR
               
               Courtesy Cummins Engine Company.
            
            
            For about the first two years of production things went very well. In 1925 J. Kuttner, editor and
                    publisher of Oil Engine Power and Motorship, visited
                    Cummins's plant. Kuttner had just spent three years in 
                        Germany
                     doing consulting work and was, according to Cummins, "a hard-boiled German
                    engineer." When this "hard-boiled" expert saw the Model F, however,
                    "He was," Cummins wrote to Irwin, "dumbfounded when he saw the
                    performance our engine put up…. He told us that he was willing to go on record that we
                    had the finest development and the most advanced engine that he has seen or heard of."44
            
            Cummins got into another fiasco, however, when he sold sixty of these engines to the Northwest
                    Engineering Company of Green Bay, 
                        Wisconsin
                    , during the years 1925 to 1927. Northwest used the engines in its shovels and
                    draglines; the first ever application of diesel engines to earth moving machinery.45 Like all diesels of the era the Model F had all of its valve and injector actuating
                    mechanisms on the outside of the engine, and these components quickly became clogged with the dust
                    and dirt common in a shovel's work environment. Also, the fuel system had a characteristic
                    that delivered proportionately larger quantities of fuel when the engine was lugged down in speed.
                    Whenever the operator dug into a bank of earth and slowed the engine, it belched black smoke and
                    pulled harder and harder the more it was lugged down; in some cases it pulled until the shovel was
                    tipped over!46
            
            Northwest discontinued the diesel experiment in 1927. Their action was perhaps premature because by
                    the next year Cummins had developed the first diesel engines in the world that had all their moving
                    parts enclosed and pressure-lubricated. And by 1929 Cummins Engine Company had developed a unique
                    distributor type fuel pump that accurately controlled fuel delivery in variable-speed
                        applications.47
            
            Cummins gained another benefit from the shovel fiasco besides a better designed engine: the increased
                    business from 
                  
                     44 Cummins to Irwin, September 3, 1925, Reel 42, No. 2, Vol. 105a,
                            Irwin Estate Files.
                  
                     45 T. S. Smith, Northwest Engineering Company, to the author, May 31,
                            1977; Cummins Engine Company Engine Shipment Book, 1924–1931 (Cummins Engine
                            Company). The machines made for Northwest Engineering Company represented 10 percent of all
                            Cummins diesels built during the years 1924 to 1931.
                  
                     46 Cummins, My Days, 101; Knudsen,
                            "History"; Don J. Cummins, interview with author, Scottsboro, 
                                Alabama
                            , 1978. Don J. Cummins was Clessie Cummins's youngest brother and was
                            the company's service representative at this time. In the 1950s he was
                            vice-president of research and engineering.
                  
                     47 Cummins, My Days, 102–104; Gemmecke,
                            "Irwin," 245–47.
               
                    
                    
                  THE CUMMINS TEST TRUCK AND ITS DRIVING CREW OF
                                (LEFT TO RIGHT) FORD MOYER, LARRY GENNERIO, CLESSIE CUMMINS, AND DAVE EVANS BEFORE THE START OF THE TRUCK'S RECORD-BREAKING
                            14,600 MILE ENDURANCE RUN AT THE
                                INDIANAPOLIS SPEEDWAY.
                  Courtesy Cummins Engine Company.
               
                     Northwest had forced the company to seek a larger facility. In
                    early 1926 operations were moved from the Cerealine mill to a twenty-two thousand square foot
                    factory building at the intersection of Fifth and Wilson streets that formerly had been a part of
                    Reeves and Company. The company offices were moved into a frame building across Fifth Street, which
                    employees always referred to as "the old house." The latter structure still stands
                    amid the brick and concrete of the one and a quarter million square feet of the present 
                        Columbus
                     Engine Plant.48
            
            By 1929 Cummins's principal business had become the sale of engines for yachts being built
                    for financiers and speculators who were riding high on the stock market boom. When the market
                    crashed in October, Cummins's yacht engine sales crashed with it. W. G. Irwin told Cummins
                    that he saw hard times ahead and would have to close the engine plant. Cummins knew that he had to
                    come up with something dramatic to keep Irwin's interest alive, and so he installed one of
                    his engines in a 1925 Packard limousine; thus, creating the first diesel automobile. He gave Irwin a
                    surprise demonstration on Christmas Day, 1929, that restored Irwin's enthusiasm and ended
                    all thought of closing the company.49
            
            The Packard limousine experiment was followed by the installation of diesel engines in a Packard
                    roadster and a Duesenberg race car. The Packard set and the Duesenberg broke the first diesel
                    vehicle speed records at Daytona Beach, and in 1931 the Duesenberg became the first car ever to
                    finish the 
                        Indianapolis
                     500 without making a pit stop. The publicity gained by the diesel automobiles created
                    interest among both the general public and industrial companies. Several of the latter made offers
                    to buy Cummins Engine Company or to enter into a royalty arrangement to manufacture the engines the
                    company had developed. Although Irwin later said that he had had no intention of selling the engine
                    company once the possibility of its becoming a successful venture became obvious, he did allow
                    negotiations for the sale of the company to proceed almost to the signing state. However, after E.
                    R. Erskine, the president of Studebaker, told him that he lacked the experience to exploit the new
                    development, Irwin grew stubborn and told John Niven, the general manager of Cummins, that there
                    would be no sharing of the product in America and that the time had come "to go ahead in
                        
                  
                     48 Cummins, My Days, 101–102; M. T.
                            Harrison to E. D. Tull, May 11, 1965, Historical Record of Cummins Land and Buildings
                            (Cummins Engine Company).
                  
                     49 Cummins, My Days, 1–7.
               
                    
                    
                  Two OF THE FIRST TWELVE DIESEL TRUCKS TO OPERATE IN AMERICA. BUILT BY STERLING MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY OF MILWAUKEE, THEY WERE OPERATED BY VALLEY FREIGHT LINES OF FRESNO, CALIFORNIA
                  
                  Courtesy William H. Fox Collection, 
                                Columbus
                            , Ind.
               
                     manufacturing and selling. We are wasting too much time
                    thinking about royalties."50
            
            More important than the publicity created by the cars was the fact that the cars' engines
                    could run at twenty-two hundred r.p.m., more than twice as fast as any other diesel engine.51 With engines like these Cummins and Irwin concluded that the company had the
                    technology needed to design a "truck and bus" diesel. After a survey was made of
                    the market and physical requirements for such engines, H. L. Knudsen designed a six-cylinder, 125
                    horsepower engine that ran at a governed speed of eighteen hundred r.p.m. The engine, which later
                    was designated Model H, went onto the test stand in late November, 1931, and after a few hours of
                    break-in it was installed in a test truck. During December the truck and its engine were endurance
                    tested by being run 14,600 miles nonstop at the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Speedway, a new vehicle record.52
            
            After this endurance test Cummins was ready to begin selling the engines, but W. G. Irwin insisted on
                    more testing in different climates and by men who knew nothing about a diesel.53
                    Therefore, the first diesel truck went into commercial service during May, 1932, in the fleet of
                    Purity Stores, a 
                        California
                     food-store chain in which the Irwin family had a large financial interest. This truck
                    was used as a demonstrator in addition to its normal work of delivering groceries throughout
                    northern 
                        California
                    . After observing the truck's performance for several months, both Savage
                    Transportation Company of 
                        San Francisco
                     and Valley Freight Lines of Fresno bought four diesel trucks. Since Cummins had no
                    dealers to service the engines, Don Cummins was sent from the factory to take care of them. These
                    two trucking companies gave the new diesel trucks a most severe test by having them pull sixty-eight
                    thousand pound truck full trailer combinations over the long, difficult routes from San 
                  
                     50
                            Ibid., 110–27; John W. Rowell, "Joint Ventures,
                            Licensing Deals Were Hot Topics 50 Years Ago," Power Team, X
                            (March/April, 1982), 12–14; Correspondence of W. G. Irwin, John Niven, C. L.
                            Cummins, and others, from April 1, 1930 to November, 1931, Reel 50, No. 2, Vol. 126, and
                            Reel 51, No. 16, Vol. 128, Irwin Estate Files.
                  
                     51 Clessie L. Cummins, "Diesel Engines for
                            Automobiles," Society of Engineers, Transactions, Vol. XXVII (
                                New York
                            , 1930), 291.
                  
                     52 Cummins, My Days, 135–43; Irwin to A.
                            J. Yeats, November 17, 1931, Reel 55, No. 11, Vol. 136, Irwin Estate Files. During the 1960s
                            V. E. McMullen sometimes stopped at my desk and expressed his admiration of H. L. Knudsen
                            and his design of the original H engine. "Here is an industrial product that has
                            lasted for 40 years," he said. "That is an unheard of
                            accomplishment."
                  
                     53 W. G. Irwin to J. I. Miller, January 4, 1932, Reel 78, No. 4, Vol.
                            136, Irwin Estate Files.
               
                     Francisco to 
                        Salt Lake City
                     and 
                        Los Angeles
                    . When the diesels ran three times longer before requiring overhauling than the best
                    gasoline engines, "word spread up and down the Coast just like wildfire," one
                    observer recalled, and other truck fleets began to order diesel trucks.54
            
            Almost immediately, cries for more power were heard from the truckers who hauled heavy loads through
                    mountains, and Cummins began what would become a continuous program of modifications and application
                    of new technology to the engine. In 1936 the original engine was modified to produce 150 horsepower,
                    and the next year a supercharged version of 200 horsepower was developed, which became the standard
                    power for the largest mining trucks of that era.55
            
            Although Cummins had produced a better mousetrap, the company did not wait for the world to beat a
                    path to its door. Instead, people were hired to make things happen. In 1934 J. Irwin Miller, W. G.
                    Irwin's grandnephew, joined the company and directed it for the next forty years, mostly as
                    chairman and chief executive officer. The same year Paris E. Letsinger became vice-president of
                    sales and established a unique sales and service organization and new policies that have since
                    become the standard of the industry. In 1935 V. E. McMullen was hired as a consultant. He changed
                    what was little more than a job shop with secondhand equipment into an efficient, volume production
                    facility. And H. L. Knudsen continued to direct the development of new and improved engines for
                    another decade as vice-president of engineering.56
            
            The new engine was very versatile. In addition to its use in the trucking and mining industries, it
                    also was widely applied to oil well drilling rigs, industrial locomotives, construction machinery,
                    and other equipment that had used steam or gasoline engines until then. As a result engine sales
                    rose from 133 in 
                  
                     54 Interview with Don J. Cummins; Paris E. Letsinger, interview with
                            W. M. Harrison, Visalia, 
                                California
                            , 1972; Paris E. Letsinger, interview with author, Visalia, 
                                California
                            , 1978; Paris E. Letsinger was the 
                                San Francisco
                             District manager of White Motor Company. As manager he was involved with all
                            the early diesel truck applications.
                  
                     55 Cummins Sales Literature and Catalogues, 1932–1941
                            (Cummins Engine Company).
                  
                     56
                            
                                Columbus
                            
                            Evening Republican, April 17, 1946; 
                                Columbus
                            
                            Republican, January 21, 1973; Cummins Engine Company, Prospectus for Sale
                            of Common and Preferred Stock, 1947 (Cummins Engine Company); "Joseph Irwin
                            Miller," Who's Who in America, 1984–1985.
                            During World War II McMullen was vice-president and general manager of the company. After
                            retiring in 1949 he served as a consultant until he was ninety years of age. As a consultant
                            he went through factory and office several times each week looking for and finding ways to
                            improve operations.
               
                     1933 to nearly 5000 in 1941.57 Cummins
                    Engine Company made its first full year profit in 1937. After investing $1.8 million in
                    loans to the company during its unprofitable years, Irwin no longer had to carry the Cummins Engine
                        Company.58 Diesel engine manufacturing had become an established and growing
                    industry in Indiana.
            
               
                  57 Gemmecke, "Irwin," 291.
               
                  58 Cummins Engine Company, Prospectus for Sale of Common and Preferred
                        Stock, 1947 (Cummins Engine Company).
            
         
         
         
            Richard Heath Dabney: A Virginian in Indiana, 1886–1889
            Howard F. McMains∗
            
            The young Virginian went west reluctantly in 1886, but Indiana University had offered Richard Heath
                    Dabney an appointment to its faculty and he had accepted.1 For three years he
                    would live in Indiana as an estranged southerner, academic historian, and civil service reformer who
                    believed that honest men in this world have a duty to speak out and a work of leadership to perform.
                    In time, however, his loathing for a university president he thought a "rascal"
                    and contempt for "Hoosierdom in general" would leave him discontented.2 When his beliefs and discontent prompted him to speak out about unsavory
                    aspects of Hoosier politics during the 1888 election, the professor from 
                        Virginia
                     became controversial. To many persons in Indiana he became simply "that man
                    Dabney."
            Richard Heath Dabney was a Virginian by heritage rather than birth. His grandfather was Thomas S. G.
                    Dabney, a planter descended from over a century of Virginians. After suffering financial losses in
                    the early 1830s, Thomas Dabney moved his family and slaves to 
                        Mississippi
                    , where he established Burleigh, a four-thousand acre plantation. With advanced farming
                    methods and five hundred slaves, he made Burleigh into an operation 
                  
                     ∗ Howard F. McMains, a resident of 
                                Noblesville
                            , Indiana, received the Ph.D. degree in history from Indiana University and has
                            written on early twentieth-century American history. He wishes to thank Professor Robert H.
                            Ferrell of Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , for reading an earlier version of this article.
                  
                     1 Richard Heath Dabney to David Starr 
                                Jordan
                             (telegram), June 8, 1886, Indiana University Board of Trustees'
                            Minutes, June 8, 1886 (Indiana University Archives, 
                                Bloomington
                            ).
                  
                     2 Richard Heath Dabney to Woodrow Wilson, December 27, 1887, in Arthur
                            Link, ed., The Papers of Woodrow Wilson (53 volumes to date, 
                                Princeton
                            , N.J., 1966-), V, 649.
                  INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY. LXXXII (December, 1986). © 1986, Trustees of
                            Indiana University.
               
                    
                    
                  RICHARD HEATH DABNEY, 1888
                  Courtesy Indiana University Archives, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     supporting his large family in luxury. Unfortunately he
                    co-signed notes for a friend who became bankrupt during the Civil War, and in 1866 creditors sued
                    Dabney and sold Burleigh at auction. Dabney kept an interest in the plantation and for years worked
                    to pay his debts, often facing poverty to do so. When he cleared them in 1882, he moved sadly to 
                        Baltimore
                    , a city "full of poor Virginians made poor by the war," where he died
                    in 1885 at the patriarchal age of eighty-seven.3
            
            Just before Thomas Dabney went to 
                        Mississippi
                     in 1835, his wife had borne him a son whom they named Virginius. Educated at Burleigh
                    by tutors, Virginius Dabney then attended school in 
                        Richmond
                    , traveled for a year in Europe, and studied at the University of 
                        Virginia
                    . After college he moved to 
                        Memphis
                     where he practiced law and married. In 1860 his wife died giving birth to their son
                    Richard Heath. Virginius Dabney served in the Confederate army, remarried following the war, and
                    during the 1870s and 1880s operated boys schools in 
                  Virginia, New Jersey
               , and 
                        New York City
                    . In the 1880s he also worked as an editorial writer for a 
                        New York
                     newspaper and wrote The Story of Don Miff, a successful novel. He
                    never lived the antebellum planter's life of his father, though in his "often
                    unpractical attitude toward life" he aspired to do so.4 His son Heath
                    Dabney later displayed traits of both his grandfather and father.
            Although he spent little of his youth in the Old Dominion, it was inevitable that Heath Dabney would
                    attend the University of 
                        Virginia
                    . His best friend at the university was a Presbyterian parson's son, Thomas
                    Woodrow Wilson. The two remained in touch for years, even after Wilson became President. After
                    receiving an M.A. in 1881 Dabney taught for a year at his father's 
                        New York
                     Latin school and then studied in Europe at Munich, Berlin, and Heidelberg. In Berlin
                    his lifelong tendency to outspokenness appeared: when the historian Heinrich von Treitschke made
                    pronouncements about the 
                        United States
                     with which Dabney disagreed, Dabney described them as nonsense. He was never to suffer
                    fools gladly.5 He enjoyed himself in 
                        Germany
                    , claiming he went a year without drinking water, and that he washed down the abundant
                    food "with the foaming ‘Solace of 
                  
                     3 Susan Dabney Smedes, Memorials of a Southern
                            Planter, edited by Fletcher Green (1887; reprint, 
                                New York
                            , 1965), xxxi-xliii; Thomas Dabney to Emmeline Dabney Walker, December 8, 1882,
                                ibid., 285.
                  
                     4
                            Dictionary of American Biography, s.v. "Virginius
                            Dabney"; Virginius Dabney, Across the Years: Memoirs of a
                            Virginian (
                                Garden City
                            , N.Y., 1978), 2–3. The latter is an autobiography by Richard Heath
                            Dabney's son, who was named for his grandfather.
                  
                     5 Virginius Dabney, Across the Years, 29.
               
                     Gambrinus’ in whatever quantities … were
                    dictated by the thirst of the moment."6 His last five months in 
                        Germany
                     Were spent at Heidelberg to work on "the home-stretch" for his Ph.D.
                    in history. After he finished his degree in 1885, he returned to 
                        New York
                     and began to search for a teaching post. In March, 1886, he gave lectures at 
                        Washington
                     and Lee College that were published two years later as Causes of the
                        French Revolution.
               7
            
            Heath Dabney worked hard for a degree that few Americans possessed at that time because he believed
                    it would make it easier for him to obtain a teaching position.8 His friend
                    Wilson, then at Bryn Mawr College, advised him that a Ph.D. was "almost
                    indispensable" in obtaining a position because history was taught "in such a
                    ridiculously, such a shamefully small number of colleges in this country." He also promised
                    to alert Dabney if he heard of any position becoming available.9 As it happened,
                    a position came searching for Wilson instead. David Starr 
                        Jordan
                    , a young biologist who had become president of Indiana University in the
                    Midwest's hinterlands at 
                        Bloomington
                    , approached Wilson saying that he sought an academic specialist in history for his
                    faculty. When Wilson turned down his offer 
                        Jordan
                     confidentially asked him to recommend "some young and rising man, who has the
                    right kind of stuff in him."10 Wilson immediately recommended his
                    friend and fellow Virginian with a Heidelberg degree.11
            
            From the time Heath Dabney came to 
                        Bloomington
                     to interview with 
                        Jordan
                    , he was dubious about his chances of being given the position. He afterwards believed,
                    incorrectly, that President Jordan "saw something about me … that he
                    didn't like.". 
                        Jordan
                     in fact saw much about the brash young man that he did like. Although 
                        Jordan
                     did offer the position to another, when that man declined, 
                        Jordan
                     and the trustees of Indiana University offered it to Dabney. Nonetheless, Dabney wrote
                    to Wilson that "the Hoosiers have treated me in a manner which we Southerners, with our
                    effete notions of honor and straightforwardness, would call anything but high-toned." If
                    another position had been available, he would not have accepted Indiana, 
                  
                     6 Dabney to Wilson, January 25, 1887, Papers of Woodrow
                                Wilson, V, 434.
                  
                     7 Dabney to Wilson, October 9, 1885, ibid., 25;
                            Richard Heath Dabney, Causes of the French Revolution (
                                New York
                            , 1888).
                  
                            8
                            Ibid.,
                        
                  
                     9 Wilson to Dabney, October 28, 1885, ibid., 37.
                  
                     10 David Starr 
                                Jordan
                             to Woodrow Wilson, February 24, 1886, ibid., 126; Thomas D.
                            Clark, Indiana University: Midwestern Pioneer, Vol. 1: The Early Years (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1970), 216.
                  
                     11 Dabney to Wilson, March 28, 1886, Papers of Woodrow
                                Wilson, V, 146.
               
                    
                    
                  WOODROW WILSON as HE APPEARED DURING the LATE 1880s
                  Courtesy 
                                Princeton
                             University Library
               
                    
                    
                  DAVID STARR JORDAN, PRESIDENT of INDIANA UNIVERSITY,
                            1884–1891
                  Courtesy Indiana University Archives. 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     but, as he also noted to Wilson, "places are
                        scarce."12 Announcement of his appointment appeared immediately in 
                        Bloomington
                    : "Prof. Dabney of the University of 
                        Virginia
                     [sic] has been chosen as one of the Professors in the Indiana
                        University."13 Heath Dabney would never feel comfortable at the
                    university, in 
                        Bloomington
                    , or among "the Hoosiers."
            Indiana University had been a quiet school since the 1820s. Men with clerical backgrounds dominated
                    the small faculty, while classical languages, mathematics, and moral philosophy dominated the
                    curriculum. During Dabney's first year he noted a clamorous newspaper article charging the
                    university with such a "slavery to flat orthodoxy … [that] no man but a reverend
                    can become a professor."14 He was amused and sent the clipping to
                    Wilson, who thought it a polemic "rattler."15
                    
                        Jordan
                    , however, after his apppointment in 1884 began to lessen clerical influence and to
                    bring Indiana University into what its official historian has described as "the main stream
                    of the new education of late nineteenth-century America." By the mid-1880s the university
                    was broadening its curriculum to emphasize science, professional studies, and American national
                    culture, and 
                        Jordan
                     encouraged this trend.16 A contemporary 
                        Bloomington
                     editor said that Jordan "has the true idea of a University … [and]
                    is making the effort to draw to this Institution … a body of teachers … who
                    may be truly regarded as masters in their various departments."17 In
                    1885 the board of trustees created a department of history as part of its new curriculum, and 
                        Jordan
                     saw in the young Virginian precisely the sort of academic master that he sought for his
                    expanding faculty.18
            
            By chance Dabney came to 
                        Bloomington
                     at a time of physical as well as academic change. In 1883 fire had destroyed the old
                    campus at the end of College Avenue on 
                        Bloomington
                    's southern edge. The trustees had begun anew east of town on a wooded knoll
                    they called University Park. In 1886 only Wylie 
                  
                     12 Dabney to Wilson, June 19, 1886, ibid.,
                            300–301; Indiana University Board of Trustees' Minutes, June 7, 1886;
                            President's Reports and Reports to Legislative Committees, November, 1887 (Indiana
                            University Archives, 
                                Bloomington
                            ).
                  
                     13
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Saturday Courier, June 19, 1886.
                  
                     14
                            Ironclad Age, n.d., quoted in 
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Saturday Courier, February 12, 1887.
                  
                     15 Wilson to Dabney, February 17, 1887, Papers of Woodrow
                                Wilson, V, 462. The editors of Wilson's papers say it is impossible to
                            identify the article Wilson thought a "rattler," but that cited above is
                            doubtlessly the one Dabney sent to Wilson.
                  
                     16 Clark, Early Years, 131, 215, 263.
                  
                     17
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Semi-Weekly Telephone, September 24, 1886.
                  
                     18 Clark, Early Years, 219.
               
                    
                    
                  INDIANA UNIVERSITY'S OWEN
                                HALL (LEFT) AND WYLIE HALL in DUNN WOODS
                            in 1885
                  Courtesy Indiana University Archives, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     and Owen Halls sat atop the knoll in the raw setting.19 To Dabney the scene was hardly comparable to the University of 
                        Virginia
                    's stately seat or Heidelberg's antique pile.
            If the university's appearance was disappointing to Dabney, so, too, was his experience with
                    President Jordan, a man that he described, with some justification, as "a
                    snake-in-the-grass and a hypocrite of the rankest kind." After accepting his position
                    Dabney found that the trustees had reduced the salary which 
                        Jordan
                     had offered. The salary issue was not to the president's credit. 
                        Jordan
                    's response to Dabney's irritated inquiry was curt: "I could not help [the matter]. It was that—or no election."20 But then 
                        Jordan
                     might have stood up to the trustees, who had dismissed Dabney's predecessor
                    and used part of Dabney's proposed salary in their settlement with him.21 In addition to the salary issue Dabney resented 
                        Jordan
                    's suggestion that "conscientious" faculty attended chapel
                    regularly and the president's refusal to support him in a cheating case involving a 
                        Bloomington
                     belle. And when 
                        Jordan
                     wrote an article for the university bulletin describing the history curriculum, Dabney
                    inserted a dissenting footnote as "a defiance to 
                        Jordan
                    ."22
            
            Despite his disappointments and difficulties with 
                        Jordan
                    , Dabney's professional endeavors were generally successful during his years at
                    the university. Dabney brought modern historical study to the university and was eager to discuss
                    his ideas about history with his classes and the public. When he arrived in 
                        Bloomington
                     in September, 1886, townspeople were surprised to find that he was "quite a
                    young man."23 Several days later he gave a public lecture about English
                    influence on eighteenth-century French thought and duly impressed his large audience with his
                    "firm convictions and clear ideas."24 He opened his classes
                    with lectures on "History as a Science," reflecting training he had received from
                    such historians as Treitschke, for he was impressed with what he called "the German
                    scientific spirit for rigid 
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., 137–40, 222.
                  
                     20 Dabney to Wilson, January 25, 1887, Papers of Woodrow
                                Wilson, V, 435. David Starr 
                                Jordan
                             to Richard Heath Dabney, June 26, 1886, #9582, Dabney and Davis Family Papers
                            (Manuscripts Department, University of 
                                Virginia
                             Library, 
                        Charlottesville,
                                    Virginia
                     ), Box 4. Hereafter
                            cited as Dabney Papers.
                  
                     21 Indiana University Board of Trustees' Minutes, June 7,
                            1886; Wilson to Dabney, November 7, 1886, Papers of Woodrow Wilson, V,
                            384.
                  
                     22 Virginius Dabney, Across the Years, 29; Clark,
                                Early Years, 222; Dabney to Wilson, May 22, 1888, Papers
                                of Woodrow Wilson, V, 728.
                  
                     23
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Semi-Weekly Telephone, September 10, 1886.
                  
                     24
                            Indiana (University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ) Student, XIII (October, 1886), 21; 
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Semi-Weekly Telephone, September 14, 1886.
               
                     accuracy."25 When he addressed the
                    Indiana College Association in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1888 on "Methods of Instruction in History," his paper elicited
                    much discussion.26
            
            Dabney's major accomplishment at Indiana University was the development of the history
                    curriculum. His predecessor, John G. Newkirk, had taught several one-term courses, starting with
                    French and English history for sophomores. At the time of his appointment 
                        Jordan
                     encouraged Dabney "to experiment some, and manage your final
                    courses after you have tried a year."27 Dabney's response was
                    to rearrange Newkirk's offerings into an orderly list of seven European history courses by
                    dropping some existing courses and adding others. He began his curriculum with two terms in European
                    intellectual history for sophomores and a new course in the French Revolution, his particular
                    interest at this early time in his career. By 1888 he had developed a logical program of courses on
                    the pattern of German universities and the Johns Hopkins University in 
                        Baltimore
                    , institutions in the forefront of modern, scientific historical study. For sophomores
                    he taught "General History of European Civilization," an introductory course
                    divided between two terms in intellectual history and one in the history of rationalism. For juniors
                    he arranged a three-term sequence on the "History of Special Nations"
                            (
                  Greece, Rome,
                            England
               ) and for seniors a sequence entitled
                    "History of Special Periods" (Decline and Fall of 
                        Rome
                    , Reformation, French Revolution).28 He also catalogued several
                    American history courses, but James A. Woodburn, who was to teach them, was on leave to do doctoral
                    study at Johns Hopkins. Dabney, in fact, taught the various courses on the history schedule alone
                    most of the time he was at the university. When Andrew White, president of Cornell, visited 
                        Bloomington
                    , he said that the history curriculum was "the best arranged of any in this
                    country." A local newspaper commented that White's remarks were "a very
                    high compliment to Dr. Dabney to whose efforts it is due."29
                    Dabney's appointment to the faculty, therefore, marked the real beginning of "an
                    organized, separate program of history in the university."30
            
            
               
                  25
                        
                            Bloomington
                        
                        Semi-Weekly Telephone, September 14, 1886; Richard Heath Dabney to Virginius
                        Dabney, November 27, 1887, Box 4, Dabney Papers.
               
                  26
                        Indiana Student, XV (January, 1889), 75.
               
                  27 David Starr 
                            Jordan
                         to Richard Heath Dabney, June 26, 1886, Box 4, Dabney Papers.
               
                  28 Indiana University, Fifty-Ninth Annual Catalogue
                            … 1888–1889 (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1889), 20–21.
               
                  29
                        
                            Bloomington
                        
                        Saturday Courier, October 6, 1888.
               
                  30 Clark, Early Years, 220.
            
            
            
               THE VIEW of BLOOMINGTON from the INDIANA UNIVERSITY CAMPUS in the LATE 1880s
               Courtesy Indiana University Archives, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
            
            
            Dabney also gained a reputation beyond the classroom. On Field Day in 1888 there was a baseball game
                    between faculty and students in which Dabney played third base. The student newspaper teased
                    beforehand that a base-stealing senior might "hurl him into all the vortexes of the French
                    Revolution." Nonetheless, the faculty won, and people talked about the game and its
                    atheltic hero: "Did you see Dr. Dabney make that home run?"31
            
            He settled less easily into the town of 
                        Bloomington
                    , a town "which," he wrote to his aunt, "I like as well as I
                    expected, but which is by no means the garden spot of the world." He did find agreeable
                    accommodation at Emma Dennis's rooming house on South College Avenue. His landlady was
                    "an exceedingly plumpsome and amiable old person [who] has relatives in the
                    South," and his fellow boarders were congenial members of the faculty. He remained at
                    Dennis's rooming house for the entire three years he was at the university because the
                    situation was as pleasant as one could find "in such a place as 
                        Bloomington
                    ."32 His room cost two dollars a week, and the board three,
                    which he thought reasonable.33
            
            If Dabney's lodgings were agreeable to him, the town of 
                        Bloomington
                     and its inhabitants were not. He complained to Wilson that there was not one gentleman
                    "in the 
                        Virginia
                     sense" among the town's thirty-four hundred residents.34 When two aunts moved from 
                        Baltimore
                     to Dakota Territory to be Indian missionaries, he said he could
                    "sympathize" with their going "beyond the pale of civilization to live in
                    a cold bleak climate among brutal savages."35 His letters contain
                    frequent aspersions on life in Hoosierdom, and even after nearly three years he lamented
                    "the hard fate of having had to live in Indiana so long."36
            
            After only a few months in Indiana, Dabney encountered unexpected and unwanted controversy. President
                    Grover Cleveland had appointed his uncle, Dr. Thomas Smith Dabney of 
                        New Orleans
                    , to the pension office. An uproar followed when Grand Army of the Republic veterans
                    charged that he had been a guard at the notorious Andersonville prison and had
                    "‘probably’ amused himself by shooting at prisoners whose claims for
                    pensions he had now been called to examine." The doctor had been born in 
                  
                     31
                            Indiana Student, XIV (April, 1888), 118; 
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Saturday Courier, June 9, 1888.
                  
                     32 Richard Heath Dabney to S. D. Smedes, October 26, 1888, Box 5,
                            Dabney Papers.
                  
                     33 Dabney to Wilson, January 25, 1887, Papers of Woodrow
                                Wilson, V, 435.
                  
                     34 Dabney to Wilson, November 6, 1886, ibid.,
                            381–82.
                  
                     35 Dabney to S. D. Smedes, February 12, 1887, Box 4, Dabney Papers.
                  
                     36 Dabney to S. D. Smedes, May 15, 1889, Box 5, ibid.
                  
               
                     1850, and he denied serving in the Confederate army.37 Nonetheless, 
                        Indianapolis
                    's Republican newspaper screamed about Thomas Dabney's appointment and
                    ran a long, lurid article detailing "Andersonville's Horrors."38 In 
                        Bloomington
                     Heath Dabney found himself in the midst of the uproar over his uncle's
                    appointment. When the town's sympathetic Democratic editor interviewed him, he said that
                    the charges were all monstrous lies. And he reiterated his uncle's statements about not
                    serving in the Confederate army and securing the pension position through an honest civil service
                        examination.39 This bloody-shirt incident increased the discomfort Heath
                    Dabney felt living among "the Hoosiers" and foreshadowed newspaper assaults on him
                    two years later.
            Given Dabney's antagonism toward both 
                        Jordan
                     and the state, he naturally thought about seeking a new position. He was not consoled
                    by a friend's assurance that "the administration of your institution …
                    is no worse than that of most other state universities." He agreed more readily with his
                    friend's judgment that "there is no end to rascality" and that university
                    presidents were "men whose forte is evasion, trickery and dissimulation, by some called
                        tact."40 Dabney's engagement to Mary Amanda Bentley of
                            
                  Richmond, Virginia
               , during the 1886 Christmas recess restricted his search for a
                    new position because he wanted to have an adequate salary before marrying since neither he nor his
                    finance possessed other income. In early 1887 Wilson suggested that there might be a position at
                    Bryn Mawr College, but this post at "Johanna Hopkins" had less potential and
                    salary than Dabney already had at Indiana. Dabney concluded he should "stick to what I have
                        got."41
            
            Later in 1887 Dabney heard a rumor about a more attractive position: Professor George Frederick
                    Holmes might retire from the University of 
                        Virginia
                    . He had reason to believe that Holmes, "a friend," wanted him to be
                    his successor. He wrote excitedly to Wilson to keep "mum" about his aspirations
                    until 
                        Virginia
                     announced Holmes's retirement. Wilson replied hopefully about
                    Dabney's good "chances for the chair."42 Dabney was
                    eager, but Holmes did not retire. Another possibility was a new 
                  
                     37
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, December 10, 1886.
                  
                     38
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, December 10, 1886.
                  
                     39
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Saturday Courier, December 25, 1886.
                  
                     40 Charles E. Bennett to Richard Heath Dabney, May 5, 1888, Box 5,
                            Dabney Papers.
                  
                     41 Dabney to Wilson, January 25, 1887, Papers of Woodrow
                                Wilson, V, 435.
                  
                     42 Dabney to Wilson, February 3, 1887, Wilson to Dabney, February 17,
                            1887, ibid., 459, 462.
               
                    
                    
                  RICHARD HEATH DABNEY (SEATED) ON THE PORCH OF EMMA DENNIS'S BOARDINGHOUSE IN THE FALL
                            OF 1888. BEHIND DABNEY ARE (LEFT TO
                            RIGHT) HIS WIFE MARY BENTLY DABNEY, EMMA DENNIS, FRANKLIN F. GUNN, ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH, GREEK, AND LATIN, AND HENRY B. MITER, PROFESSOR OF RHETORIC AND ELOCUTION
                  
                  Courtesy Dabney and Davis Family Papers (#9852-c), University of 
                                Virginia
                             Library, 
                                Charlottesville
                            .
               
                     chair at the University of the City of 
                        New York
                    . His father sent him an advertisement about the position from the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times, but this opportunity also proved to be elusive. In a letter to Wilson
                    Dabney lamented, "So I suppose I must remain a Hoosier for at least another
                        year."43
            
            What made the prospect of a third year at Indiana University tolerable to Dabney was his marriage.
                    After his engagement to Mary Bentley he felt compelled to defer the wedding for "an
                    indefinite period" because of his salary.44 He perhaps said little
                    about his engagement on campus, but in spring, 1887, there was "a rumor that Prof. Dabney
                    will return with a handsome bride next September."45 He did spend a
                    month in 
                        Richmond
                     during that summer, but his marriage did not take place until June 14, 1888, by which
                    time his salary had increased to the fifteen hundred dollars he considered necessary.46 After visiting Dabney's father in 
                        New York
                     the couple arrived in 
                        Bloomington
                     early in September to hearty congratulations from university friends. A local account
                    described Mrs. Dabney as "a very pleasant lady" who would be "very
                    popular among her new acquaintances."47 Dabney continued to live at
                    Dennis's rooming house, where he rented more space to accommodate his new bride. He wrote
                    to his favorite aunt, Susan Dabney Smedes, that "Mary and I have fitted up a little bower
                    where we are happy in spite of Hoosiers and Hoosierdom." He went on to describe the sitting
                    room, which contained two chairs purchased with Aunt Sue's ten-dollar wedding
                    gift—"and very pretty ones they are," he assured her.48
            
            Heath Dabney's marriage and professional prospects seemed auspicious for his third year at
                    Indiana, but ahead lay conflict, for he felt compelled to speak out on Yankee misconduct during the
                    1888 election. Dabney was a liberally trained academic who absorbed many of the mugwump reform
                    impulses of the Gilded Age, but only within the limitations set by his southern background. Dabney
                    was born in 1860, and he believed the tragedy of his life had been the Civil War. Writing to his
                    aunt he said that "it seems as though it were impossible for our family to recover from the
                    terrible calamities brought on us by the war."49
                    
                  
                     43 Dabney to Wilson, April 1, 1888, Dabney to Wilson, April 2, 1888,
                                ibid., 716–17, 724.
                  
                     44 Dabney to Wilson, January 27, 1887, ibid., 438.
                  
                     45
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Telephone (formerly, Semi-Weekly Telephone), May 24,
                            1887.
                  
                     46 W. P. Trent to Woodrow Wilson, June 5, 1887, Papers of
                                Woodrow Wilson, V, 514; 
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Telephone, July 10, 1888.
                  
                     47
                            Indiana Student, XV (October, 1888), 5; 
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Telephone, September 14, 1888.
                  
                     48 Dabney to S. D. Smedes, October 26, 1888, Box 5, Dabney Papers.
                  
                     49 Dabney to S. D. Smedes, February 12, 1887, Box 4, ibid.
                  
               
                     The war had bankrupted Thomas Dabney's friend and thus
                    led to the foreclosure on Burleigh in 1866 and the family's subsequent
                    "calamities." Heath Dabney was therefore sensitive to "war
                    issues." He believed that political parties had to dissolve to bring about sectional
                    reconciliation. Republicans, he wrote, "must lay down their arms" and
                    "cease to wave the bloody shirt," but in 
                        Bloomington
                     he saw no indication that this would happen. As long as Yankees considered southerners
                    to be traitors, he believed the South must remain solid, regardless of what became of civil service
                    reform, the labor question, or the silver question. His interest in reform filtered through his
                    obsession with "war issues."50
            
            The family's view of Reconstruction had a Bourbon cast that young Heath accepted. Susan
                    Dabney Smedes wrote in her remarkable book about her father Thomas, Memorials of a
                        Southern Planter (1887), that in the mid-1870s 
                        Mississippi
                     citizens decided it was "unmanly and stupid to submit to … aliens
                    and the misguided African element." She described "financial bankruptcy and social
                        degradation."51 Corruption years earlier had produced a higher
                    state debt than Reconstruction, but that mattered little to planters seeking to reestablish
                    privileged positions. Heath Dabney was delighted with Aunt Sue's book, which received good
                    reviews and went through several American and English editions. "Hurrah, hooray for Aunt
                    ‘Snicks’!!! She sut'ny do take de cake," he cheered.52 With his sense that recent history had caused his family "terrible
                    calamities," he felt as if he were in enemy territory in 
                        Bloomington
                    , where a generation after 
                        Appomattox
                     he lamented "the war and the troubles it has brought on us all."53
            
            At Thanksgiving dinner given in 1887 by a fellow faculty member, he found himself talking loosely to
                    a sympathetic spirit. Another guest was Gustaf Karsten, professor of Romance languages and a recent
                    arrival in the 
                        United States
                     from the University of 
                        Geneva
                    . Karsten had visited 
                        Baltimore
                    , "where he was charmed with the Southerners he met." After his
                    arrival in 
                        Bloomington
                     "his supreme scorn for Hoosiers and Yankees has steadily increased,"
                    Dabney reported to his father. Following the Thanksgiving festivities, the two went to
                    Karsten's lodgings and, 
                  
                     50 Dabney to Wilson, November 6, 1886, Papers of Woodrow
                                Wilson, V, 381–82.
                  
                     51 S. D. Smedes, Memorials of a Southern Planter,
                            250–51.
                  
                     52 Dabney to S. D. Smedes, January 30, 1888, Box 5, Dabney Papers.
                  
                     53 Dabney to S. D. Smedes, February 12, 1887, Box 4, ibid.
                  
               
                     encouraged by generous quantities of wine, "damned the
                    Yankees with great zeal until after two A.M."54
            
            Discontented by both Hoosierdom and the by the rascally 
                        Jordan
                    , Dabney committed in November, 1888, the deed which made him notorious in Indiana. He
                    decided to write to The Nation, a genteel national magazine that supported mugwump
                    reforms, "in the interest of political science and of good government" and
                    described election abuses in 
                        Bloomington
                    . The presidential contest between incumbent Democrat Grover 
                        Cleveland
                     and Republican Benjamin Harrison was no Sunday school picnic in pivotal Indiana, and
                    Dabney thought, with reason, that there had been corruption.55 Shortly after he
                    had arrived in 
                        Bloomington
                     in 1886, Dabney had heard allegations that "boodle" amounting to some
                    five thousand dollars had been spent by the two parties to buy votes in the fall election in 
                        Bloomington
                     and surrounding 
                        Monroe County
                    . After the elections Dabney wrote to Wilson about the corruption and commented that it
                    seemed "the noble Hoosier has an inalienable right to sell his vote."56 Because Dabney thought hushing up such abuses would not lead to reform, he
                    decided in 1888 that it was "high time that honest men should speak out."57
            
            The story, as he related it to The Nation, was a saturnalia of corrupt practice. He
                    calculated that there were thirty thousand "floaters" in Indiana who sold their
                    votes to the highest bidder and there were two hundred of them in 
                        Bloomington
                     out of a voting population of seven hundred. "The magnitude of the evil is
                    apparent," he said. It was his observation that a controversial recommendation by
                    Republican national treasurer William Dudley of Indiana regarding blocks of five (i.e., one trusted
                    Republican escorting five floaters to the polls and paying them off) was "almost literally
                    an order to the Republican ‘workers.’ " He recounted methods by which
                    Republicans organized and paid floaters, including holding some overnight at the office of
                    "the leading Republican paper of the county," namely the 
                        Bloomington
                    
                    Telephone, in order to shepherd them in blocks of five to the polling place on
                    election morning. He claimed to have witnessed Republican workers passing Republican ballots into
                    the hands 
                  
                     54 Dabney to Virginius Dabney, November 27, 1887, ibid.
                  
                  
                     55 For state politics in the 1880s, see Clifton J. Phillips, Indiana in Transition: The Emergence of an Industrial Commonwealth,
                                1880–1920 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968), 1–30.
                  
                     56 Dabney to Wilson, November 6, 1886, Papers of Woodrow
                                Wilson, V, 382.
                  
                     57 Richard Heath Dabney to James A. Woodburn, November 28, 1888,
                            Wood-burn Papers (Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ).
               
                     of "two filthy negroes." However, he noted:
                    "It must not be supposed … that negroes are the only purchasable voters in these
                    parts. The Hoosier floater is but too frequently neither negro nor foreign, but your genuine
                    freeborn American sovereign." Although he did say both parties had sinned, the burden of
                    his charge was against "that Grand Old Party of Great Moral Ideas."58
            
            The Grand Old Party reacted angrily to Dabney's article. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, published by the adviser to victorious Republican candidate Benjamin
                    Harrison, responded first: "Negroes in Indiana vote the Republican ticket without
                    money….What seems to worry the amiable educator most is that the Democrats
                    couldn't buy them. Better stick to your books, Professor, and let politics
                        alone."59 Dabney did not take this first editorial reaction
                    seriously: "I … can afford to ignore the snarling of these journalistic
                    curs….I shall not ask the advice of the Journal."60 A
                    typical rejoinder from the state's Republican county press was the sneer of the Rising Sun
                        Recorder at "The Professor by the euphonious name of Dabney, imported
                    from old 
                        Virginia
                     to enlighten the Hoosiers." The federal grand jury should interview him at
                    once, its editor chuckled, for "he has knowledge of the kind that grand juries dote
                        on."61 The Journal returned to the attack some
                    days later when it asserted that Dabney's letter was "a libel on Indiana, and
                    could only have had its origin in malice or ignorance. It might have been both, for he came from 
                        Virginia
                     and has not been long a resident of the State." The paper stated pointedly
                    that his "interest in political science and good government must be of recent birth, or the
                    country would have heard from him before he left 
                        Virginia
                     in indignant protest against the wholesale frauds and disenfranchisement of colored
                    voters which have been practiced there for years."62
            
            Dabney's harshest critics resided in 
                        Bloomington
                     and their spokesman was Walter S. Bradfute, editor of the 
                        Bloomington
                    
                    Telephone, whom Dabney had implicated in the chicanery. Born in 
                        Ohio
                     in 1862, Bradfute was younger than Dabney and like the latter was an immigrant to the
                    Hoosier state.63 His first response 
                  
                     58
                            The Nation, November 22, 1888, 412. For the blocks of five controversy,
                            see Phillips, Indiana in Transition, 27.
                  
                     59
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, November 26, 1888. Publisher John C. New became consul in 
                                London
                            , and editor E. L. Halford became Harrison's private White House
                            secretary.
                  
                     60 Dabney to James A. Woodburn, November 28, 1888, Woodburn Papers.
                  
                     61 The Rising Sun (Indiana) Recorder, December 14,
                            1888.
                  
                     62
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, December 7, 1888.
                  
                     63 Charles Blanchard, ed., Counties of Morgan, 
                                    Monroe
                                , and 
                                    Brown
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 554.
               
                     was to describe Dabney's letter as "the kind
                    of news that the farther away from home it gets the better it reads." He wondered how
                    Dabney could detect electoral violations in Indiana but be "stone blind to the wholesale
                    robbery, bulldozing and intimidation" of blacks in 
                        Virginia
                     who attempted to vote a Republican ticket. Who was this Dabney that criticized Hoosier
                    politics? "From 
                        Virginia
                    , sah."64 The same day the Journal
                    printed a letter from 
                        Bloomington
                     signed merely "W." Noting that Dabney was from 
                        Virginia
                    , "whose soil is red with the blood of freedmen," and "an
                    imported addition to the faculty … a disciple of Calhoun and Cobden," the
                    writter concluded meanly that Dabney's "presence here is endured, but never
                        enjoyed."65
            
            These articles caught Dabney by surprise, even though he realized that "those of us who
                    refuse to keep our mouths shut must… expect a certain amount of abuse from the
                    professional politicians."66 But the Telephone's broadside and the Journal's anonymous letter
                    shook his poise. He wrote to his colleague James A. Woodburn, a 
                        Bloomington
                     native then on leave at Johns Hopkins, for assistance.67 Woodburn
                    jumped into the fray. "I … am a native of Indiana
                    ‘Sah!’—born on the soil of 
                        Bloomington
                    , I am glad to say," he wrote to the 
                        Ohio
                    -born Bradfute. He discussed the election reform issue at length and asked the editor to
                    give it serious consideration.68
            
            Dabney's own letter to Bradfute was a bit more choleric. It was, he said, "a matter
                    of supreme indifference to me whether or not my actions meet with the gracious approval of the
                    Telephone." His letter to The Nation was not about "whether the
                    customary beverage of Southerners is the hot and reeking gore of their former slaves, but whether
                    wholesale bribery was practised in Indiana." As an Indiana resident, taxpayer, voter, and
                    teacher, he said he felt "entitled to discuss the election methods of this, my adopted
                        State."69
            
            Letters went back and forth. Bradfute responded acidly that he would address Dabney "without
                    compliment of personal respect." He raised the false and irrelevant bloody-shirt allegation
                    that Dr. Thomas Dabney had been a guard at Andersonville, and he demanded that Dabney turn attention
                    to corruption and 
                  
                     64
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Telephone, November 30, 1888.
                  
                     65
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, November 30, 1888. Richard Cobden was an English advocate of free
                            trade and a favorite target of protectionist Republican orators.
                  
                     66 Dabney to James A. Woodburn, November 28, 1888, Woodburn Papers.
                  
                     67 Dabney to Woodburn, December 1, 1888, ibid.
                  
                  
                     68
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Telephone, December 18, 1888.
                  
                     69
                            Ibid., December 4, 1888.
               
                    
                    
                  JAMES ALBERT WOODBURN, 1886
                  Courtesy Indiana University Archives, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     violence in 
                        Virginia
                    .70
                    
                        Bloomington
                    's Democratic newspaper defended Dabney as truthfully reporting incidents
                    during the election. And a southern newspaper called articles in Indiana's Republican press
                    a "crusade of filthy blackguardism against Prof. Dabney," whose 
                        Virginia
                     background gave them a pretext for launching diatribes.71 So it
                    went until anxiety over Dabney's letter had spent itself. While Dabney's critics
                    never addressed his specific allegations, the state legislature did pass an election reform law in
                    1889, due in part to the national publicity Dabney had given to corrupt election practices during
                    the infamous 1888 election.72
            
            Indiana heard yet more from "that man Dabney" after the election. On January 8,
                    1889, at the Jackson Day dinner in 
                        Bloomington
                     Dabney gave a talk titled "Corruption in Politics."73 Walter Bradfute sneered that Dabney addressed only Democrats because "the man who
                    shakes hands with a buzz-saw needs no warning a second time."74
                    Furthermore, Dabney and other faculty members (including President Jordan) signed a petition in
                    January calling for a tariff reform convention to meet in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on Harrison's Inauguration Day, and he addressed a civil service reform
                    meeting on campus.75 He also spoke at an evening session of the state civil
                    service reform association in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The session, with about fifty members in attendance, met in "the pleasant
                    parlor" of the 
                        Plymouth
                     Congregational Church and was addressed by several speakers. Professor Dabney was
                    certainly the best known of the speakers. His subject was universal suffrage and the civil
                        service.76
            
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                     address was a bit on the pallid side, perhaps showing that Dabney had become more
                    pessimistic since the election. He introduced his topic by saying "the grim logic"
                    of the Civil War proved the Constitution was not a panacea and the Founding Fathers were fallible.
                    Faith in free government was not sufficient to cope with "the grave moral evils of the
                    time," among them the condition of the civil service as effected by universal suffrage. He
                    attacked rotation in office (the "spoils system") as mistakenly derived from the
                    idea that one man's political opinion was as good as another's, and thus rotation
                    became 
                  
                            70
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     71 Unidentified clipping, Woodburn Papers.
                  
                     72 Phillips, Indiana in Transition,
                            29–30.
                  
                     73
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Saturday Courier, January 12, 1889.
                  
                     74
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Telephone, January 11, 1889.
                  
                     75
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Saturday Courier, January 26, 1889, February 16, 1889.
                  
                     76
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, January 24, 1889; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, January 24, 1889.
               
                     an extension of universal suffrage. The ballot box could not be
                    a remedy because there was no such thing as equal justice: "Men are born neither free nor equal." Freedom resulted from individual
                    exertion and the gift of society and state. Civilization was based on inequality and
                    differentiation, and "to force … equality is an attempt … to destroy
                    civilization." Thus there was no natural right to vote or to hold civil service office:
                    "the alleged government of the people, by the people, and for the people bids fair to
                    become a government of the floaters, by the wire-pullers, and for the plutocrats." He
                    concluded that there must be "some sort of class government," and that men fitted
                    in character and training for public duties should be that governing class. This governing class
                    would be an aristocracy of the best, most honest, capable, industrious, and patriotic men in the
                    country—in short, men such as himself. He urged state election reform and the extension
                    of nonpartisan civil service examinations to more federal offices to help improve the quality of
                    government and the bureaucrats who served in it.77
            
            As life has a way of doing, change began to overwhelm Dabney's bucolic life in 
                        Bloomington
                    , and with change came tragedy. Three weeks after his 
                        Indianapolis
                     address he received word from the University of 
                        Virginia
                    's Board of Visitors that they had appointed him adjunct professor of history
                    as of October 1. On Februry 21, 1889, he resigned from Indiana University, effective August 1. 
                        Bloomington
                    's Democratic newspaper ran a gracious announcement of Dabney's
                    selection and commented that "his election to the position" had been "a
                    complete surprise."78 Walter Bradfute, ever caustic toward Dabney,
                    claimed he had "secured a position through his relatives … in a 
                        Virginia
                     college."79
            
            His appointment animated his spirits, and he wrote a sharp resignation letter to the board of
                    trustees. He tore into their tenure policies and charged them with destroying faculty morale by
                    making capricious appointments. And he left no doubt as to his feelings about the president, noting
                    "the invincible repugnance which I feel at being subordinated to such a man as Dr.
                    Jordan." He did comment favorably on the faculty's freedom to teach their subjects
                    and on the general curriculum. He also stated he would 
                  
                     77 Richard Heath Dabney, "The Influence of Universal Suffrage
                            upon The Civil Service," Virginius Dabney Papers, #7690-r (Manuscripts Department,
                            University of 
                                Virginia
                             Library, 
                        Charlottesville,
                                    Virginia
                     ), Box 1,
                            "Speeches and Notes for Speeches of R. H. Dabney."
                  
                     78
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Saturday Courier, February 23, 1889.
                  
                     79
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Telephone, February 26, 1889.
               
                     leave "some" of his students "with
                    genuine reluctance."80 The trustees accepted his resignation.81
            
            Heath Dabney spent his last weeks in 
                        Bloomington
                     anticipating his move to 
                        Virginia
                    . At the end of February he escorted his wife to 
                        Louisville
                    , "from whence she goes east for a visit with her folks."82 Mary Dabney was pregnant, and Heath desired her confinement to be with her
                    parents in 
                        Richmond
                    . He busied himself with classes, occasional lectures, and revisions to his civil
                    service reform address which he was to present in August to a chautaqua in 
                        Georgia
                    .83 In mid-May he wrote Aunt Sue that he was "delighted at
                    the prospect of getting out of Hoosierdom and back into Old 
                        Virginia
                    ." While he mentioned his "loathing" for 
                        Bloomington
                    , his emphasis was on the promise of the future: "I acquiesce in the results of
                    the war and am content to be a citizen of the 
                        United States
                    ; I love the whole South; but I passionately love 
                        Virginia
                    ."84
            
            But then tragedy struck. His wife had borne a daughter on May 12, and a series of telegrams indicated
                    Mary Dabney was not recovering satisfactorily. Heath was especially concerned about being so far
                    away from her because his own mother had died in childbirth. On May 16 another telegram urgently
                    advised him to go to 
                        Richmond
                    . He rushed from 
                        Bloomington
                     that night but did not reach his wife's bedside until an hour after her death.
                    After the funeral in 
                        Richmond
                     Dabney did not return to 
                        Bloomington
                    . His colleagues arranged to ship his possessions to 
                        Virginia
                     and to conduct his classes for the brief remainder of the term. President Jordan even
                    taught the senior French Revolution course. Dabney's years in Indiana had ended sadly, with
                    the world seeming to him "but a dark valley and the history of man but a fleeting
                        show."85
            
            Richard Heath Dabney taught at the University of 
                        Virginia
                     for forty-nine distinguished years, including many as graduate dean, until his
                    retirement in 1939. He died in 1947. In all the years after he left Indiana Dabney never recalled
                    his three years in Hoosierdom fondly. In later life he spoke about his problems in Indiana with his
                    son by his second marriage, Virginius, himself a prominent writer and 
                        Richmond
                     editor. In 
                        Bloomington
                    
                    
                  
                     80 Richard Heath Dabney to the Board of Trustees of Indiana University
                            (draft), February 21, 1889, Box 5, Dabney Papers.
                  
                     81
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Saturday Courier, March 16, 1889.
                  
                     82
                            Ibid., March 2, 1889.
                  
                     83
                            Ibid., April 6, 1889.
                  
                     84 Dabney to S. D. Smedes, May 15, 1889, Box 5, Dabney Papers.
                  
                     85
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Saturday Courier, May 25, 1889; Indiana University Faculty Minutes, May
                            18, 1889 (Indiana University Archives, 
                                Bloomington
                            ).
               
                     there are no visible reminders that he began his long career at
                    Indiana's new University Park campus. Yet he did make a lasting and significant impact on
                    the university and on the state of Indiana. He developed the history curriculum at Indiana
                    University on the basis of modern pedagogy, and his revelations in The Nation made
                    election reform inevitable in Indiana. As a Virginian, historian, and reformer living reluctantly in 
                        Bloomington
                    , Richard Heath Dabney practiced a precept with which he admonished his Indiana
                    University students: "we should never forget … we have duties to perform and a
                    work to do in this world."86
            
            
               
                  86
                        
                            Bloomington
                        
                        Saturday Courier, June 8, 1889.
            
         
         
         
            Criminal Punishment in Antebellum Indiana: The Limits of Reform
            David J. Bodenhamer∗
            
            Over the past decade historians have exhibited considerable interest in early nineteenth-century
                    attempts to reform criminal justice. Most of this research has detailed the post-Revolutionary shift
                    from retributive to reformative justice and the corresponding development of the penitentiary,
                    especially in eastern states. The prison, a symbol of reform experiments, had a dual purpose: to
                    rehabilitate inmates and, by virtue of its success, to serve as a model of order for a disorderly
                    society. But, as historian David J. Rothman has noted, the dreams of reformers contained the seeds
                    of later nightmares. Faulty theories of crime and society and a naive reliance on the curative
                    effect of the prison's internal structure plagued efforts at reform. Overwhelmed by the
                    number of inmates, the penitentiary by the Civil War had taken on a custodial role.1
            
            Scholarly focus on the penitentiary has obscured the extent to which reform efforts addressed all
                    parts of the criminal justice system. Equally important were attempts to limit or abandon the use of
                    corporal punishment, to abolish the death penalty, and to rewrite the criminal code to make it more
                    comprehensive and a better deterrent to crime. In many states, including Indiana, each of these
                    proposals stimulated wide-ranging public debate and significant reform of criminal law.
            
               
                  ∗ David J. Bodenhamer is professor of history, University of
                        Southern 
                            Mississippi
                        , Hattiesburg.
               
                  1 David J. Rothman, The Discovery of the Asylum: Social Order
                            and Disorder in the New Republic (
                            Boston
                        , 1971), 240–57. Also see Walter David Lewis, From Newgate
                            to Dannemora: The Rise of the Penitentiary in 
                                New York
                            , 1796–1848 (
                            New York
                        , 1965); Negley K. Teeters and John D. Shearer, The Prison at 
                                Philadelphia
                            : Cherry Hill: The Separate System of Prison Development (
                            New York
                        , 1957).
               INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY. LXXXII (December. 1986). © 1986. Trustees of Indiana
                        University.
            
            
            But the course of reform was not smooth, nor were reform goals ever fully realized. As
                    Indiana's experience demonstrates, there were limits to the reform impulse beyond those
                    mentioned by Rothman and other historians of the penitentiary movement. A limited treasury, residual
                    beliefs in retribution, and continuing use of criminal law to reinforce traditional moral order also
                    slowed and diverted reform efforts. These circumstances not only affected the development of the
                    penitentiary but also stymied efforts to eliminate capital punishment and to make statutory criminal
                    law more rational and humane.
            This essay traces the course of criminal justice reform in Indiana from 1816 to 1860, focusing
                    primarily on statutory law, judicial opinion, and public debates as key indices to reform efforts.
                    Although sometimes described as a "reform movement," it would be misleading to
                    conclude that advocates of reform united under a single banner. Indeed, it is difficult to identify
                    even a loose coterie of leaders or agreement among reformers upon a common agenda. Ideas to recast
                    the criminal justice system were widespread in Indiana and attracted strong support from many
                    obscure legislators and citizens representing all parts of the state. Participation in reform
                    efforts, moreover, came from all demographic and political groups. While later research may discover
                    some significant patterns of support, this essay will confine its focus to the context and
                    manifestations of criminal justice reform in antebellum Indiana.
            By the mideighteenth century, reformation had replaced retribution as the goal of an enlightened
                    criminal law. This change in the theory of punishment owed much to the Italian scholar, Cesare
                    Beccaria. His treatise On Crime and Punishment became the standard for many of the
                    post-Revolutionary reforms of punition. In this "manifesto of the liberal approach to
                    criminal law," Beccaria expressed an ardent faith in the power of human reason and the
                    perfectability of social institutions.2 He repeatedly urged that law should not
                    restrict human freedom unnecessarily. To do otherwise increased crime by creating more opportunities
                    for men to violate legal prohibitions. Beccaria offered other prescriptions for a fair and humane
                    criminal process. Criminal law should be fixed in a written code, with presumption of innocence
                    maintained at every stage of the prosecution. Severe punishment was to be avoided because it made
                    criminals "commit additional crimes to avoid punishment for a single one."3 To be 
                  
                     2 Leon Radzinowicz, Ideology and Crime (
                                New York
                            , 1966), 9.
                  
                     3 Cesare Beccaria, On Crime and Punishment, trans.
                            Henry Paolucci (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1963), 43.
               
                     effective punition had to be strictly limited, proportionate to
                    the crime, and inflicted with speed and certainty.
            For many Americans Beccaria offered a satisfactory solution to the problem of crime and criminal
                    justice. Experience had taught them that severe codes did little to diminish deviant behavior. To
                    the contrary, a correlation appeared to exist between barbarous punishments and increases in
                    criminal activity. The Revolutionary generation took this lesson to heart and set out to rectify the
                    mistakes of colonial codes. By replacing inhumane features of the legal system with rational laws
                    and salutary punishments, reformers believed that crime could be controlled more effectively, if not
                    actually decreased. This conviction, in turn, led to vigorous efforts in the early republic to limit
                    or abolish the death penalty and to develop institutions which reformed offenders.4
            
            Throughout the antebellum years Hoosiers publicly and privately declared that reformative principles
                    must guide the criminal process. The state's first Constitution enjoined "cruel
                    and unusual punishments" and required that all penalties "be proportioned to the
                    nature of the offense."5 Over thirty years later delegates to a second
                    constitutional convention overwhelmingly endorsed, and voters ratified, a section which declared
                    that the penal code would be "founded on the principles of reformation, and not vindictive
                        justice."6 The legislature decided the next year that juvenile
                    offenders in particular must "be treated with humanity and in a manner calculated to
                    promote their reformation."7
            
            A number of private citizens also expressed support for a legal system which acted to redeem
                    malefactors. It was in society's best interest, wrote a prominent resident of 
                        Marion County
                    , to show a "spirit of forgiveness." When the community based laws on
                    arbitrary and sanguinary principles, "then the same feeling of murder and revenge would
                    rule in the breast of its lowest members."8 This sentiment found voice
                    in numerous essays and petitions, especially during the campaign to abolish the death penalty.
                    Declaring that "we live in an age that may emphatically be styled an age of
                    Reform," a group of 
                        Union County
                    
                    
                  
                     4 Rothman, Discovery of the Asylum,
                            59–61.
                  
                     5 Indiana Constitution of 1816, Article 1, Sections 15 and 16.
                  
                     6 Indiana Constitution of 1851, Article 1, Section 18.
                  
                     7 Indiana, Revised Statutes (1852), I, 347.
                  
                     8 Samuel Merrill, "Ought the Executive of a State to Possess
                            the Power of Pardoning Criminals?" undated manuscript, Samuel Merrill Papers
                            (Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
               
                     citizens petitioned for criminal laws that "shunned
                    the Spirit of revenge and retaliation" and sought instead to restore offenders to
                        society.9
            
            Yet the law of criminal punishment in antebellum Indiana reflected this reformist impulse only in
                    part. The state entered the Union with a repressive code which mandated severe penalties for most
                    offenses. A good example of this was the first law code in the territory, the Marietta Statutes of
                    1788. That body of law defined nine crimes, three of which—treason, murder, and
                    arson—were capital offenses. Robbery and burglary carried penalties of fines, whippings,
                    and imprisonment for up to thirty years. Individuals convicted of perjury or theft could be given
                    thirtynine lashes, pilloried, and disfranchised.10 Later territorial statutes
                    continued to mandate harsh punishments, although one change allowed courts to jail offenders rather
                    than administer whippings.11
            
            Admission to statehood had little immediate impact on criminal law despite the state
                    Constitution's ban on cruel punishments and its requirement for proportionate sentencing.
                    The first state criminal code made no pretense of reforming the offender. Punishment was intended to
                    inflict pain. The code listed fifty-nine crimes and mandated death for four of
                    them—treason, murder, rape, and carnal knowledge of a female under ten years of age.12 Many crimes were punishable by whipping. Fifteen of the fifty-nine offenses,
                    or 25 percent, could receive this penalty in addition to fines and imprisonment13 It is difficult to distinguish offenses for which whipping was allowed from those for which
                    it was forbidden. For example, conviction for forgery of 
                  
                     9 "Resolution of Citizens of Union County to Hon. James A.
                            Whitcomb," James A. Whitcomb, Governor's Correspondence (Archives
                            Division, Indiana Commission on Public Records, Indiana State Library and Historical
                            Building, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     10 Daniel Waite Howe, The Laws and Courts of the
                                Northwest and Indiana Territories (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol.
                            II, no. 1; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1886), 21–22; David B. Banta, "The Criminal Code of the
                            Northwest Territory," Indiana Magazine of History, IX (December,
                            1913), 241–42.
                  
                     11 Francis S. Philbrick, eds., The Laws of Indiana
                                Territory, 1801–1809 (
                                Springfield
                            , Ill., 1930), cxxiv-cxxix, cxlvi, clxxix.
                  
                     12 Indiana, Laws (1817–1819),
                            65–76, 92, 96. The number of capital crimes in Indiana seems typical for the
                            period. The leader was probably 
                                South Carolina
                             with 165 capital crimes in 1813 and 22 crimes punishable by death as late as
                            1850; but a student of 
                                South Carolina
                            's criminal law admits that the state had an unusually high number of
                            such offenses. Jack K. Williams, Vogues in Villainy: Crime and Retribution in
                                Ante-Bellum 
                                    South Carolina
                                
                      (
                                Columbia
                            , S.C., 1959), 100.
                  
                     13 The list included manslaughter, burglary, robbery, perjury,
                            knowingly passing counterfeit bank notes, larceny, sodomy, arson, horse-stealing, stealing
                            hogs or altering their marks, incest, obtaining goods through false pretenses,
               
                     bank notes could bring thirty-nine lashes, while forgery of
                    state notes or securities could only be punished by a fine three times the amount defrauded. Also,
                    courts could inflict thirty-nine stripes for those convicted of stealing hogs or altering their
                    marks but could only impose a monetary penalty on those caught altering the marks on domestic
                    cattle. Furthermore, whenever stripes constituted the appropriate punishment, the allowable number
                    varied without apparent reason. Sodomites could suffer one hundred lashes, while fifty stripes was
                    the legal limit for the crime of incest.14
            
            Although whipping criminals had fallen into disfavor in the more settled East, its use in pioneer
                    Indiana at least ensured that offenders would be punished. After all, the administration of justice
                    in frontier areas was a tenuous thing. It was difficult to catch and convict lawbreakers, and there
                    was no guarantee that once convicted they could be held in insecure county jails. Even so, local
                    courts and juries hesitated to exact the whipping allowed by law. County officials often avoided the
                    punishment by adopting the colonial practice of "warning out," or forcing
                    offenders to move on. On at least one occasion, for instance, residents of 
                        Marion County
                     allowed defendants to escape rather than whip them.15 Whippings
                    were carried out on occasion, but they were usually accompanied by a public outcry so strong that
                    legislators were ultimately persuaded to abandon the practice. A case in point was the demand of a 
                        Vincennes
                     newspaper that whipping be abolished after a local court ordered a "fellow
                    citizen tied to sign post and flogged like a dog."16
            
            Whipping did not long remain a part of the state's criminal code. In 1821 the General
                    Assembly ordered that a state prison be built at 
                        Jeffersonville
                     for persons convicted of felonies. At least one scholar contends that public distaste
                    with harsh corporal 
                  and assault and battery with intent to murder, rape, or commit sodomy. Indiana, Laws (1817–1819), 76–78, 80, 82, 92–96.
                            Indiana was not alone in the use of corporal punishment. The 
                                Illinois
                             Code of 1827 also mandated whipping as the punishment of rape, arson, burglary,
                            robbery, larceny, buying or receiving stolen goods, altering brands, forgery, and
                            counterfeiting. The Revised Code of 
                                    Illinois
                                , Enacted by the Fifth General Assembly (Vandalia, Ill., 1827),
                            132–35. Contemporary 
                                Ohio
                             law, however, did not permit whipping. 
                                Ohio
                            , General Acts (1823), 158–66, 181–92.
                  
                     14 Indiana, Laws (1817–1818),
                            80–81, 92, 94–95. David D. Banta, a late nineteenth-century Indiana
                            lawyer and judge, believed that the lack of similar punishments for like crimes was the
                            result of the "patchwork character of the laws." Banta, Criminal Code of Northwest Territory, 241.
                  
                     15 William R. Holloway, 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                : A Historical and Statistical Sketch of the 
                                    Railroad City
                                 … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1870), 34; Berry R. Sulgrove, History of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and 
                                    Marion County
                                
                      (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1884), 34.
                  
                     16
                            
                        
                                    Vincennes
                                 Indiana Centinel, May 6, 1820
               
                     punishments was the primary reason for its construction.17 His conclusion is supported by the fact that the legislature abolished
                    whipping as the prison neared completion and substituted equivalent terms of confinement for all
                    offenses previously liable for punishment by stripes.18
            
            Reform of the methods of punishment did not end with the decision to outlaw whipping. Throughout the
                    nation men and women campaigned to make prisons into correctional institutions that would
                    rehabilitate the criminal and allow his return to society. Two types of prison
                    organization—the 
                        Auburn
                     system from 
                        New York
                     and the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     plan—competed for dominance as the ideal penitentiary. Advocates of both
                    systems thought that the criminal was "the victim of an upbringing that had failed to
                    provide protection against the vices at loose in society" and that a well-regulated
                    institution would counterbalance societal shortcomings.19 They differed only on
                    how best to organize the penitentiary. Supporters of the 
                        Auburn
                     plan believed in a congregate organization of prison routine where inmates worked
                    together by day but separated into single cells at night. Defenders of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     plan felt that an unbroken period of solitary confinement was necessary for proper
                    reformation because isolation allowed the convict more time to consider his misdeeds.20
            
            At the beginning the prison at 
                        Jeffersonville
                     more nearly followed the outline of the 
                        Auburn
                     system. Inmates worked together during daylight hours but went to individual cells at
                    night. Within a short time, however, an increase in the number of prisoners beyond the number of
                    cells forced abandonment of plans for a nocturnal separation. By 1835, for example, fifty-five
                    inmates crowded into cells designed to hold less than half that 
                  
                     17 Helen Wilson, Treatment of the Misdemeanant in
                                Indiana, 1816–1936 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1938), 8, 24.
                  
                     18 Indiana, Laws (1822–1823),
                            40–41. The statute stipulated that where the law allowed one hundred stripes,
                            prison confinement of one to seven years would be substituted; where not exceeding fifty
                            stripes, confinement of one to five years; where not exceeding thirty-nine lashes,
                            confinement of one to three years. Ibid.
                  
                  
                     19 Rothman, Discovery of the Asylum, 82.
                            Environmentalism was not considered the sole cause of crime; biological factors were also
                            thought important. For more on the latter, see Arthur E. Fink, Causes of Crime:
                                Biological Theories in the 
                                    United States
                                , 1800–1915 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1938), 1–47, 151–78.
                  
                     20 Lewis, From Newgate to Dannemora,
                            81–109; Teeters and Shearer, The Prison at 
                                    Philadelphia
                                , 10–32; Rothman, Discovery of the Asylum,
                            79–108; Harry Elmer Barnes. The Evolution of Penology in 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                : A Study in American Social History (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1927), 118–21
               
                     number.21 An even more serious obstacle to
                    successful imitation of the 
                        Auburn
                     plan arose early in 1824 when the General Assembly abolished the Board of Managers
                    appointed to supervise the prison. Legislators then authorized the governor either to appoint a
                    state superintendent to run the facility or to let a three-year contract for oversight of the
                    convicts in return for the use of their labor.22 The choice of the second
                    alternative established the precedent for state practice until 1855.23
            
            The decision to authorize private management of the state prison suggests that fiscal restraints
                    could override the goal of reformation. A House committee on the state prison confirmed this in 1829
                    when it reported that "the farming out of the prisoners is salutary and calculated to
                    relieve the state of the burthen of annual draughts from the Treasury."24 Still, some lawmakers worried about the value of a prison managed more for profit than
                    rehabilitation. The same legislative report reflected this concern when it concluded that the state
                    should more precisely regulate the governance of prisoners. This feeling grew despite assurances
                    from Governor Noah Noble and other state officers that the privately operated facility well
                    comported "with the spirit of our laws."25
            
            By the early 1840s the contract system of prison management was coming increasingly under attack. The
                    state visitor warned that the existing system was fatal to the goal of redemption. It would profit
                    society more, he asserted, to free criminals than to allow them to work outside the walls where they
                    were "cut off… from all moral and religious
                        instruction."26 After a well-publicized examination of the 
                        Jeffersonville
                     plant in 1841, 
                  
                     21 Despite an overcrowding that obviously destroyed the rationale of
                            an 
                                Auburn
                            -like system, the official state visitor evidently continued to believe that the
                            prison was meeting its goal. In his annual evaluation he noted that "solitary
                            confinement in cells during those hours in which labor is not required … is
                            calculated to produce reflection and reformation in the minds of the convicts."
                            "Report of Visitor to State Prison," reprinted in 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, February 3, 1835.
                  
                     22 Indiana, Revised Laws (1823–1824),
                            395–98.
                  
                     23 The lease was terminated by the legislature. Indiana, Laws (1855), 197–98.
                  
                     24
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana State Journal, January 27, 1829. For more on the finances of the
                            early state prison, see Donald F. Carmony, "Indiana Public Finance,
                            1800–1826" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, Indiana
                            University, 1940), 352–64.
                  
                     25 Indiana, House Journal (1832–1833),
                            14. One state visitor praised the prison as "the most satisfactory proof of the
                            wisdom of our laws in providing for a penitentiary system founded upon the principle of
                            reformation." "Report of Visitor to State Prison," reprinted in 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, February 3, 1835.
                  
                     26 "Report of the Visitor to the State Prison,"
                            Indiana, Documentary Journal (1840), 139–40.
               
                     Governor Samuel Bigger concluded "that the Prison
                    itself, and the entire policy of its discipline … cannot be too soon abandoned for the
                    character of the State."27 But the governor's message revealed
                    little concern for either the alleged mistreatment of prisoners or the failure of the system to
                    reform criminals. He advocated change because he believed that "The Prison itself, is
                    entirely too small…. [It is] impossible to employ the convicts in the limits of the
                    Prison, with advantage to the Superintendents, or the State." Even after acknowledging
                    reports of overcrowding, inhumane treatment of prisoners, and lack of proper supervision, Bigger
                    only recommended that a new and larger building be built, not that the state seek a termination of
                    the contract system.28 Evidently, the patronage and tax savings that flowed from
                    private control were not easy to relinquish. A pledge that convict labor would be used to construct
                    the new facility persuaded the fiscally conservative legislators to support Bigger's
                        proposal.29
            
            The late 1840s and 1850s witnessed redoubled efforts to bring Indiana's prison organization
                    within patterns advanced elsewhere. Stories of brutal punishments inflicted by prison officials on
                    inmates circulated in state newspapers and added to the pressure for reform. The New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Gazette, in a story that epitomized the rumors, reported that convicts received
                    routine whippings when they failed to complete even the most difficult tasks on schedule. The paper
                    alleged that the superintendent administered ninety-five lashes to a young boy for "failing
                    to keep fires in a brick kiln of eight arches, during a hot day."30 At
                    the time of the convening of the General Assembly in December, 1845, the influential 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Indiana State Journal called for a prison controlled solely by the state. Giving
                    the keeper "an interest in the proceeds of the labor of convicts," the Journal claimed, "leads to overworking and to treatment abhorrent to
                    humane feelings."31 A delegate to the constitutional convention of
                    1850–1851 went even further in his denunciation of the system when he labeled the prison
                    the "worst of all prisons in the 
                  
                     27 Indiana, Senate Journal (1841–1842),
                            25–26.
                  
                            28
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     29 Indiana, General Laws (1841–1842),
                            98–101. One reason the legislature voted to move the facility to another site was
                            to assuage the concerns of residents of the city who disliked the competition of convict
                            labor and who feared the possibility of mass prison breaks. Bigger's message of
                            1841, a similar communication from the next governor, James Whitcomb, and a supreme court
                            decision all allude to this. Indiana, Senate Journal
                            (1841–1842), 25–26; Indiana, Senate Journal
                            (1844–1845), 22–23; Helton v. Miller, 14 Indiana Reports 557–89 (1860).
                  
                     30 Reprinted in 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana State Journal, September 10, 1845.
                  
                     31
                            Ibid., December 3, 1845.
               
                    
                    
                  THE INDIANA STATE PRISON AT JEFFERSONVILLE, C. 1850
                  Reproduced from: Lucien V. Rule, The City of Deal Souls and Hon It
                                Was Made Alre Again: A Hundred Years Within the Walls (
                                Louisville
                            , [19201).
               
                    
                    
                        United States
                    ."32 These reform efforts ultimately led to a
                    constitutional mandate in 1851 that the penal code "be founded on the principles of
                    reformation, and not of vindictive justice."33
            
            Not until the mid-1850s, however, did the state assume direct control of the 
                        Jeffersonville
                     prison.34 The change came only after repeated warnings by a popular
                    governor, Joseph A. Wright, that farming out prisoners was "radically wrong" and
                    "highly objectionable."35 Wright wanted the prison to be a
                    true penitentiary with the reform and reintroduction of the criminal into society its constant goal.
                    To this end he proposed that any profits from convict labor be divided among the inmates and their
                    families instead of reverting to either the state or a private contractor.36 The
                    failure of this suggestion to receive legislative consideration illustrates the fact that even
                    direct state control did not assure meaningful reform. Guards and other prison officials might be on
                    the state payroll, but the contracting of prison labor had to be continued because legislators
                    failed to provide adequate funds for the prison's operation.37
            
            State reluctance to commit the resources necessary to staff an adequate, much less an exemplary,
                    penitentiary also hampered efforts to provide separate facilities for juvenile and female prisoners.
                    An act of 1840 had given juries discretion to sentence a juvenile felon to the county jail instead
                    of the state prison.38 But the act provided only a surface remedy because
                    conditions in the jails were no better than those in 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . 
                  
                     32
                            Report of the Debates and Proceedings of the Convention for the Revision of the
                                Constitution of the State of Indiana. 1850 (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1850–1851), II, 1903. A late nineteenth-century historian of
                            Indiana agreed with this delegate's conclusion. The prison, he claimed,
                            "for many years … was about the worst managed and conducted prison on
                            the continent, a disgrace to the State and an outrage on humanity." William Henry
                            Smith, The History of the State of Indiana; From the Earliest Explorations by
                                the French to the Present Time (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1897), II, 634.
                  
                     33 Indiana Constitution of 1851, Article I, Section 18.
                  
                     34 See note 23 above.
                  
                     35 Indiana, Senate Journal (1853), 23.
                  
                     36 Indiana, Senate Journal (1855), 33.
                            Wright's commitment to prison reform was apparently genuine. He reportedly spent
                            hundreds of dollars of his own money on behalf of efforts to upgrade the penal system. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana State Sentinel, January 1, 1857. For more on Wright's
                            efforts to reform the state prison, see Philip M. Crane, "Onus with Honor: A
                            Political History of Joseph A. Wright, 1809–1857" (Ph.D. dissertation.
                            Department of History, Indiana University, 1961), 214–18.
                  
                     37 In 1858 the legislature finally approved a plan for a second
                            facility at 
                                Michigan City
                            . For more on the further development of the state prisons, see Emma Lou
                            Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1965), 584–88.
                  
                     38 Indiana, General Laws (1839–1840),
                            184. This provision remained in effect throughout the period. See Indiana, Revised Statutes (1852), II, 424.
               
                     Calling them a "poor school for morals," one
                    reform-minded legislator considered them a training ground for crime where "the ingenious
                    and innocent youth is … thrown into the society of the dissipated and the
                        depraved."39 In the 1840s Dorothea Dix had visited a number of
                    Indiana jails and had portrayed many of them as unhealthful and unsavory institutions.40 Fear that an indiscriminate mixing of adult and youthful offenders would result in a
                    training school for crime prompted Governor James Whitcomb to call for state-run "houses of
                    Refuge" where females and juveniles "will be beyond the contagion of confirmed
                    vice and hoary crime."41
            
            The problem had not been invented by hysterical reformers or crusading politicians. In 1851 the
                    warden of the state prison reported to the constitutional convention that of 1,131 inmates housed at 
                        Jeffersonville
                     from 1822 to 1850, 157, or more than one-eighth of all prisoners, had been minors. The
                    youngest was only eleven years old; another was fourteen.42 The report made an
                    impression on the delegates. When the new Constitution was presented for ratification, it contained
                    a clause requiring the General Assembly to "provide Houses of Refuge … for
                    … juvenile offenders."43
            
            This victory was more apparent than real, however, because subsequent legislatures refused to
                    appropriate funds to build juvenile homes. Legislators disagreed on the number of facilities the
                    Constitution required or the state needed. Some representatives argued that each judicial district
                    should have one because the framers had intended to promote the creation of "neighborhood
                    institutions" where offenders could be sent for short periods of time. Other legislators
                    maintained that the state could not adequately support more than one such establishment and that
                        
                  
                     39
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, February 6, 1835.
                  
                     40 Wilson, Treatment of the Misdemeanant, 25,
                            85–87.
                  
                     41 Indiana, Senate Journal (1847–1848),
                            110. Governor Joseph A. Wright sounded similar themes in 1850 when he called for special
                            juvenile buildings to be built as part of county jails. "It is idle," the
                            governor said, "to talk of reforming the young man, who, for his first offense, has
                            been convicted for stealing property of the value of five dollars, and sentenced to two
                            years' imprisonment in the State Prison, thus placing him by the side of the
                            murderer. We must place the young and juvenile offender where his associations and
                            intercourse are with those who will exercise an influence for good, and not with the old and
                            hardened in crime." Indiana, Senate Journal
                            (1850–1851), 24.
                  
                     42
                            Convention Debates, II, 1903. The problem was not unique to Indiana,
                            however, but had its counterparts in other states. See, in general, Robert A. Mennel, Thorns and Thistles: Juvenile Delinquents in the 
                                    United States
                                , 1825–1940 (
                                Hanover
                            , N.H., 1973)
                  
                     43 Indiana Constitution of 1851, Article IX, Section 2.
               
                     it should be centrally located.44 The
                    debate produced only an ineffectual requirement that juveniles housed in county jails "be
                    treated with humanity and in a manner calculated to promote their reformation."45
            
            The deadlock continued throughout the 1850s despite the strong support of Indiana governors for
                    separate juvenile facilities. Joseph A. Wright, Democratic governor from 1849 to 1857, was
                    especially concerned by the large numbers of youths in the state prison. In 1855 he reported to an
                    unresponsive legislature that more than one-half of all inmates were under twenty-five years of age
                    and that 36 of 267 inmates were under twenty.46 A warning by the editor of an
                    influential state paper that legislative disregard of the constitutional mandate would result in
                    "making and hardening criminals by state action" was also futile.47 Failure to establish separate facilities did not escape the notice of local courts. A
                    newspaper report in 1860 indicated that judges were releasing large numbers of youthful offenders
                    rather than sending them to the state prison.48 Still, the General Assembly did
                    not provide construction funds for a new prison until 1867, even though it had authorized the
                    purchase of land twelve years earlier. The reform impulse so evident in the constitutional
                    convention was unable to overcome the fiscal conservatism of Indiana legislators.49
            
            While a limited treasury blunted efforts to bring Indiana's prison organization within
                    patterns advanced elsewhere, a fear of disorder and a residual belief in retribution also kept the
                    state from fully satisfying the constitutional goal of reformation in its penal policies. These
                    other limits to reform are best illustrated by the unsuccessful effort to abolish the death penalty
                    and by the revisions of statute law that incorporated new crimes and mandated stiffer punishments.
            Since the Revolution, men had argued that executions violated the dictates of natural justice. An
                    early Indiana governor, James B. Ray, echoed this sentiment in 1830 when he denounced capital
                    punishment as a "primitive practice." Like Beccaria sixty years earlier Ray
                    objected to the punishment because it made a burlesque of society's proclaimed goal of
                    reforming the 
                  
                     44 See the House debate on June 14, 1852, reported in 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Indiana State Journal, June 15, 1852.
                  
                     45 Indiana, Revised Statutes (1852), I, 347.
                  
                     46 Indiana, Senate Journal (1855), 33.
                  
                     47
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Indiana Journal, January 29, 1855.
                  
                     48
                            Ibid., December 21, 1860.
                  
                     49 Indiana, Laws (1855), 191; Indiana, Laws (1867), 139–45.
               
                     criminal. Equally disturbing were the intrinsic uncertainty of
                    a guilty verdict and society's inability to redress its mistakes. The only sure remedy for
                    such problems, Ray concluded, was the abolition of the penalty.50
            
            The General Assembly ignored Ray's proposal, and the next year he called only for an end to
                    public executions.51 This goal appeared more attainable because even many
                    advocates of capital punishment abhorred the carnival atmosphere that too often accompanied an
                    exercise on the gallows. Typical of this carnival atmosphere was the execution of two men in 
                        Columbus
                     in 1833. Although the hanging was scheduled for noon, a large and festive crowd
                    estimated at five thousand had gathered much earlier in the day. At the appointed time the prisoners
                    ascended the scaffold in the company of the sheriff and several clergymen. Drama then turned to
                    tragicomedy as, one by one, the ministers offered prayers and sermons that lasted more than three
                    hours. After waiting what must have seemed an interminable period, the condemned men were finally
                        executed.52
            
            Reports of the spectacle at 
                        Columbus
                     sparked a statewide debate on the moral propriety and legal efficacy of capital
                    punishment. The president of the so-called "
                        Indianapolis
                     Legislature," a local debating society, denounced the practice for
                    "exciting brutal passion and lawless violence." He contended that publicity
                    attending the event transformed the "unfortunate convict [into] a brave, generous and
                    daring hero." This defeated the law's purpose of deterring others by example; and
                    when that deterrence was removed, all that remained was the "electric horror" of
                    the hanging.53 A state representative from 
                        Parke County
                     had a similar scene in mind when he sponsored a bill to end public executions because
                    of their "pernicious and demoralizing tendencies."54
            
            
               
                  50 Dorothy Riker and Gayle Thornbrough, eds., Messages and
                            Papers Relating to the Administration of James 
                                Brown
                             Ray, Governor of Indiana, 1825–1831 (Indiana Historical
                        Collections, Vol. XXXIV; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1954), 576.
               
                  51
                        Ibid., 686.
               
                  52 From 
                            Columbus
                        , Indiana, Chronicle, as reprinted by Indianapolis Indiana Journal, October 26, 1833.
               
                  53
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Indiana Journal, January 18, 1834. Although the president, William B.
                        Slaughter, advocated solitary lifetime confinement as a substitute for the death penalty, his
                        description of what that entailed makes death seem attractive by comparison: "The low,
                        the damp, the dreary cell, the glorious light of sun without, the dreary solitude within
                        … the slow, dull march of time extending moments into years, and hours to centuries
                        within, each moment bringing new pain and each hour additional horror." One of
                        Slaughter's predecessors had also advocated that solitary confinement replace the death
                        penalty. See speech of Samuel Merrill to the 
                            Indianapolis
                         Legislature, printed in 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Indiana Journal, May 21, 1829
               
                  54
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Indiana Journal, January 8, 1834.
            
            
            Throughout the nation the mid-1840s marked the zenith of the antebellum movement to abolish capital
                        punishment.55 In Indiana major legislative debates occurred in 1843 and
                    1846, with arguments pro and con paralleling positions advanced elsewhere. Opponents of execution
                    thought the practice was barbarous and contrary to principles of reformative justice. For others,
                    true justice demanded retribution measured by the standard of "an eye for an eye."
                    Fears that the penalty might be imposed on innocent persons met the rebuttal that failure to exact
                    death where evidence of guilt was strong would invite mob action and scorn for the law.56 The debates changed few minds. Like the rest of the nation Indiana had
                    drastically reduced the number of capital crimes and had softened penal laws even more by giving
                    courts and juries discretion to impose life imprisonment rather than death.57
                    This action may have induced self-satisfaction, as it did in other states, and hence made further
                    reform more difficult.58
            
            There was noticeable slippage in reform sentiment after the 1840s. A proposal at the constitutional
                    convention in 1851 to abolish the death penalty except for willful and deliberate murder suffered
                    defeat by a large margin.59 During the session of the General Assembly following
                    the convention, legislators passed a bill decreeing private executions, but a majority of the
                    lawmakers left no doubt that they favored capital punishment.60 A substantial
                    number of representatives even wanted to extend the penalty to additional crimes. Nowhere was this
                    better illustrated than in the defeat, by a margin of thirty-four to forty-four, of a bill to
                    execute any man convicted of seducing an unmarried female of good reputation.61
            
            The failure of reformers to capitalize on earlier efforts to change the prison structure or to
                    abolish capital punishment testifies to the legislature's reluctance to go further in
                    satisfying the constitutional goal of reformation in its penal policies. At a minimum, the refusal
                    to abolish capital punishment implies that the state conceded the impossibility of reforming all
                    offenders. Here Indiana was no different than most antebellum states. 
                  
                     55 David Brion Davis, "The Movement to Abolish Capital
                            Punishment in America, 1787–1861," American Historical
                                Review, LXIII (October, 1957), 42.
                  
                     56
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, January 30, 1843, January 3, 1846.
                  
                     57 Indiana, General Laws (1845–1846), 40.
                            By the time this law was passed only treason and first-degree murder were capital crimes.
                  
                     58 Davis, "Movement to Abolish Capital Punishment,"
                            28.
                  
                     59
                            Convention Debates, II, 1390, 1640.
                  
                     60 Indiana, Revised Statutes (1852), II, 379.
                  
                     61 Indiana, House Journal (1851–1852),
                            II, 1133.
               
                     Hoosiers evidently believed that the special deterrent of death
                    was necessary to protect society from particularly depraved individuals, even if the penalty
                    embodied a major principle of retributive justice.
            The limits of antebellum reform can also be seen in the several revisions of the criminal law,
                    revisions which sharply increased the number of possible offenses and the severity of punishment.
                    The state's first code defined fifty-nine crimes; by 1852 this number had doubled to 120.
                    Misdemeanors represented the largest part of this increase, rising from twenty-five in 1816 to
                    almost eighty by the Civil War. Felonies grew at a somewhat lesser pace.62 The
                    creation of new crimes was significant. It signaled a departure from an earlier belief that the goal
                    of freedom justified few restrictions on human conduct. This retreat bothered at least one Indiana
                    jurist who, in 1858, cautioned legislators: "Where there is no law, there is not
                    transgression. Where there are many laws, there is much. Hence, criminal laws should not be
                    unnecessarily multiplied."63
            
            Not surprisingly, most of the expansion of the criminal code occurred in the two decades preceding
                    the Civil War. By the late 1830s much of Indiana was no longer a frontier state. It was experiencing
                    a rapid economic growth and widespread demographic change marked by incipient urbanization and an
                    influx of new immigrant groups, especially Germans and Irish. Social unrest, including small-scale
                    riots, accompanied these developments.64 It is small wonder that lawmakers with
                    roots in an earlier, more simple Indiana saw in the criminal law a way to protect a traditional
                    economic and social order.
            In large measure the addition of new crimes and stiffer punishments represented an attempt to keep
                    pace with an infinitely more complex economy. Nowhere was this tendency more pronounced than in the
                    multiplication of crimes against property. These statutes were obviously a response to a commercial
                    development that made new and different demands on the law as the forms of property and the means to
                    endanger them became more numerous. In the first codes, for example, counterfeiting was defined
                    simply and punished lightly. By the 1850s the law detailed 
                  
                     62 Indiana, Revised Laws (1823–1824),
                            139–53; Indiana, Revised Statutes (1852), II,
                            388–424. Felonies rose from twenty in 1824 to forty-three in 1852.
                  
                     63 Samuel E. Perkins, Pleading and Practice, Under the
                                Code of 1852, in Civil and Criminal Actions, in the Courts of Indiana; with References
                                to the Latest Statutory Amendments and Judicial Decisions (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1859), 21.
                  
                     64 See David J. Bodenhamer, "Crime and Criminal Justice in
                            Antebellum Indiana: 
                                Marion County
                             as a Case Study" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, Indiana
                            University, 1977).
               
                     five separate acts of counterfeiting and prescribed severe
                    punishments for each of them.65
            
            The increased emphasis on economic crime in late antebellum Indiana corresponded to legal
                    developments in other states. Criminal law was moving from its late eighteenth-century concern with
                    moral order to an emphasis in the Jacksonian Era on the protection of private property.66 This is not to say that punishment of immorality became unimportant.
                    Indiana's experience suggests that an opposite conclusion is more nearly correct. The
                    number of moral-order crimes advanced steadily throughout the period, with a similar inflation
                    occurring in the penalties applied to these misdeeds.67
            
            Laws against miscegenation—a gross immorality to most antebellum Hoosiers—offer
                    a spectacular example of this expansion of moral-order crimes. In 1818 the penalties for
                    miscegenation were mild, with a fine of one hundred dollars if the white offender was male and ten
                    days in jail if the guilty white was female. Twenty years later punishment included a fine of from
                    one thousand to five thousand dollars and a prison term of ten to twenty years.68 In sexual misdeeds where race was not a factor, there were similar, though less harsh,
                    developments. Confinement of up to ten years replaced a maximum one thousand dollar fine for incest.
                    By the mid-1840s seduction had undergone a dramatic metamorphosis from tort to felony.69 Of course, not all sexual misconduct was liable for such severe punishment. Open and
                    notorious adultery and fornication, for instance, remained mildly punishable misdemeanors, even
                    though the early 1850s witnessed a serious, if unsuccessful, effort to make them punishable by
                    prison terms.70
            
            Not all moral-order crimes involved copulative sins, nor were sexual crimes the most controversial.
                    Hoosier lawmakers also devoted considerable energy to regulating gambling and liquor, with new laws
                    and stiffer penalties accompanying each revision of the criminal code. Scholars have adequately
                    chronicled the 
                  
                     65 Indiana, Revised Statutes, II, 416–17.
                  
                     66 See William E. Nelson, Americanization of the Common
                                Law: The Impact of Legal Change on 
                                    Massachusetts
                                 Society, 1760–1830 (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1975), 109–14, 117, 120–21.
                  
                     67 The earliest criminal code defined eleven crimes against public
                            morality; by 1843 there were twenty-six such crimes. See Indiana, Laws
                            (1817–1818), 88, 92, 96; Indiana, Revised Laws
                            (1842–1843), 962.
                  
                     68 Indiana, Laws (1817–1818), 94;
                            Indiana, General Laws (1839–1840), 32–33.
                  
                     69 Indiana, Laws (1817–1818), 95;
                            Indiana, General Laws (1846–1847), 120.
                  
                     70 See the report of the debate in 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Indiana State Journal, March 3, 1852.
               
                     persistent attempts to prohibit consumption of liquor in
                    Indiana and elsewhere, but strictures against gambling have remained unstudied.71 This is ironic because more than one-seventh, or nine of fifty-nine, of the substantive
                    sections of the state's first criminal code dealt with this problem. Various statutes made
                    gaming contracts illegal and fined persons convicted of gaming, keeping gaming equipment, permitting
                    gaming in their house, or bringing cards into the state. Several sections required that the accused
                    post a recognizance that was forfeited if a second conviction for the same offense occurred within
                    twelve months.72 An unusual preamble to this early act explained the reason for
                    concern: gambling was "often attended with quarrels, disputes and controversies, to the
                    improverishment of many people and their families, and the ruin of the health and corruption of the
                    manners of youth."73
            
            The moral tone of Indiana law suggests a modification of the notion that antebellum legislatures paid
                    diminishing attention to crimes against morality. Crime as theft may have replaced crime as sin at
                    the heart of criminal law, but it is evident that the latter offenses still concerned Hoosier
                    lawmakers. This does not mean that these laws represented a consensus on moral values. Pressure to
                    establish legal norms is often greatest where consensus is least attainable.74
                    The renewed scrutiny of immorality coincided with the arrival of German and Irish immigrants, groups
                    which many original settlers considered incapable of meeting their standards of sobriety and
                        industriousness.75 The expansion of the list of punishable sins, therefore,
                    was partly an attempt to protect native, middle-class values against a perceived challenge by newly
                    arrived immigrant groups.
            The development of the criminal law suggests that by the late 1840s and 1850s the model of
                    reformative justice envisioned in Indiana's constitutions was, at best, a curious mixture
                    of reformation and retribution that symbolized the ambivalence of Hoosiers about the social purpose
                    of punishment. Many believed 
                  
                     71 For liquor regulation in Indiana, see Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era, 28–35, 57–69; Logan Esarey,
                                History of Indiana from Its Exploration to 1922 (3 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1922–1923), II, 613–19.
                  
                     72 Indiana, Laws (1817–1818),
                            89–92.
                  
                     73
                            Ibid., 89.
                  
                     74 Joseph R. Gusfield, "Moral Passage: The Symbolic Process
                            in Public Designations of Deviance," Social Problems, XV (Fall,
                            1967), 188.
                  
                     75 For an account of one Indiana county's attempt to use
                            criminal law to enforce morality, see David J. Bodenhamer, "Law and Disorder on the
                            Early Frontier: 
                                Marion County
                            , Indiana, 1823–1850," Western Historical
                                Quarterly, X (July, 1979), 323–36.
               
                     that criminals were capable of rejoining the community upon the
                    receipt of proper and humane instruction. Yet crime threatened the good order of society, so
                    punishment had to be sufficiently stringent to discourage recidivism and to inhibit others from
                    criminal activity. A delegate to the midcentury constitutional convention summed up the dual
                    function of Indiana's criminal law when he rhetorically asked: "Sir, what is the
                    object of all punishment? It is two-fold: the prevention of crime and the reformation of the
                        offender."76 At times these goals were in conflict, and the
                    ambivalence about which was dominant made the course of reform uncertain. When new institutions or
                    milder laws appeared incapable of effecting any large measure of stability, there was a shift away
                    from reform and toward a reliance upon more stringent punishment to ensure order. Perhaps more than
                    anything else, the law of crime and punishment in antebellum Indiana represented the hesitant,
                    fearful, often contradictory, and sometimes symbolic response of lawmakers uncertain of the
                    consequences of rapid social and economic transformation.
            
               
                  76
                        Convention Debates, II, 1903. An earlier visitor to the state prison also
                        reflected this belief. He noted that "the penitentiary deprives them [criminals] of the
                        opportunity of annoying the community whilst the punishment deters others."
                        "Report of State Visitor," reprinted in 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Indiana Journal, February 3, 1835.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Indiana: An Illustrated History. By Patrick J. Furlong. (Northridge, Calif.:
                    Windsor Publications, Inc., in cooperation with the Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 1985.
                    Pp. 232. Maps, illustrations, bibliography, index. $24.95.)
            This is not just a coffee-table book to impress one's friends. It offers a solid narrative
                    history checked by such recognized state historians as Ralph D. Gray, James H. Madison, and Donald
                    F. Carmony. Patrick J. Furlong teaches history at Indiana University at 
                        South Bend
                     and is a popular lecturer. He had the assistance of Mary Ellen Gadski, an architectural
                    historian who found some early pictures of Indiana life in places many historians would overlook,
                    and Judy Keene, a journalist who has specialized in business biography and commercial developments.
            The splendid format was made possible by support from the Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana
                    and seventy-five other organizations and individuals, a combination not likely to occur again. The 
                        California
                     publisher was generous in using a large page and lavish in including 235 color and
                    black and white illustrations. It is a text to read carefully, and a book to fan through to study
                    the pictures. Without interrupting the main narrative, the author treats several individuals in
                    separate articles inserted on gray-colored pages. He also expresses some hard-hitting opinions on
                    the Klan, Governor Paul McNutt, school segregation, and other subjects. The end of the historical
                    text is followed by sixteen pages of colored pictures and then a chapter on nineteen businesses and
                    organizations by Judy Keene.
            This reviewer found himself suffering from rising expectations in the illustrations and consequent
                    disappointment. There are some curious omissions: no picture of Harrison's home, or the
                    rebuilt capitol building, or the Clark memorial in 
                        Vincennes
                    ; no view of the reconstructed Fort 
                        Wayne
                    ; two early, distant views of 
                        New Harmony
                    , but no close-ups of surviving Harmony buildings; and an inadequate view of only one of
                    the several modern architectural gems in 
                        Columbus
                    . Colleges fare poorly—several are barely mentioned and only three campuses
                    are shown. Only five of Indiana's famous state parks are illustrated, and the two most
                    picturesque are omitted: Spring Mill State Park and Angel Mounds State Memorial.
            The book is good and worth owning, yet it is not as good pictorially as it could have been. Was the
                    subvention not large enough to allow any more pictures? Even a dozen more would have enhanced the
                    volume immeasurably. A second opportunity 
                    
                  MEMBERS OF THE LEBANON HIGH SCHOOL BASKETBALL TEAM, 1911
                  Courtesy Indiana High School Athletic Association. Reproduced from Patrick J.
                            Furlong. Indiana An Illustrated History (Northridge, Calif., 1985).
                for this kind of cooperative production is not likely to be arranged.
            
               Hendersonville, N.C. Howard H. Peckham
         
         
            
               A 
                            Rush County
                         Retrospect, 1980's–1920's. [By Donald T. Zimmer
                        et al.] 2 volumes, plus paperbound index compiled by Ruth Dorrel. (
                        Rushville
                    , Ind.: 
                        Rush County
                     Historical Society, in cooperation with the Indiana Historical Bureau, 1984. Pp. xii,
                    416; vi, 552. Illustrations, notes, maps, figures, tables, appendix, index. $70.00.)
            In 1976 the 
                        Rush County
                     Historical Society decided to update A. L. Gary and E. B. Thomas, Centennial History of 
                            Rush County
                        
                (1921). The Society engaged an historian, Donald T. Zimmer of Tri-State
                    University, and got some technical help from the Indiana Historical Bureau, but kept much of the
                    project in local hands. The family, organizational, and business histories  that comprise the second volume were prepared under the
                    Society's own editorial control; the town histories that fill the second half of the first
                    volume are based on public discussions initiated by the 
                        Rushville
                     Consolidated High School Junior Historical Society; and Zimmer's half of the
                    first volume has a scattering of "vignettes," which are brief, descriptive essays
                    by local writers, including students in 
                        Rush County
                     schools. The result is a happy combination of scholarly craft and the
                    community's own vivid recollections of its recent past.
            Zimmer's part of the project takes 
                        Rush County
                     as an illustration of "the impact of urbanization and its alter ego,
                    modernity" (vol. I, p. 181). He emphasizes economic developments, especially the decline of
                    railroads and the rise of automobiles, 
                        Rushville
                    's furniture manufacturing, and agricultural change. Two chapters, about a
                    quarter of Zimmer's contribution, provide a sophisticated narrative and statistical account
                    of recent agricultural history, particularly the adoption of new technologies, changing production
                    patterns, and farm consolidation. Case studies of the 
                        Marion
                     Liggett and Wayne H. Carmony farms show what those changes have meant in practice. The
                    agricultural chapters make splendid use of interviews, county agents' reports, and a
                    manuscript history by Clarence L. Spuller, who was county agent from 1943 to 1966.
            Zimmer also considers politics, especially school consolidation, and social topics such as family
                    life, crime, and popular amusements. 
                        Rush County
                     followed national trends in those matters; mentioning them simply demonstrates that the
                    county is not a "changeless, bucolic backwater," though Zimmer claims that it
                    remains "quieter, more scenic, safer" and generally more liveable "than
                    its urban neighbors" (vol. I, p. 182). The historian obviously developed some affection for
                    his subject.
            Much of the county's social and cultural history is left entirely to local writers.
                    Residents describe their churches, congregation by congregation, in the second volume, and a few
                    informants consider the small black minority. Frank G. Evans, a black physician who grew up in 
                        Rushville
                     before World War II, pays a particularly interesting tribute to his home town by
                    writing that he learned about "prejudice and discrimination as a student at Indiana
                    University" and later in the army and in 
                        Indianapolis
                     (vol. I, p. 410). Many of the local contributions are equally illuminating. They are a
                    valuable complement to Zimmer's fine history.
            
               Indiana University at 
                     South Bend,
                                South Bend
                  
                Donald B.
                Marti
         
         
         
            
               Selected Papers from the 1983 and 1984 George Rogers Clark
                        Trans–Appalachian Frontier History Conferences. Edited by Robert J. Holden. (
                        Vincennes
                    , Ind.: Eastern National Park and Monument Association, for the National Park Service
                    and 
                        Vincennes
                     University, 1985. Pp. ix, 145. Illustrations, maps, notes, references. Paperbound,
                    $4.95, plus $1.00 postage.)
            This is the first collection of papers from the annual conferences held at 
                        Vincennes
                    . Six of the eight brief papers in this book emphasize military and diplomatic
                    affairs—not surprising since the 
                        Vincennes
                     area was the scene of prolonged three-way struggles between settlers, European powers,
                    and Indians. The authors address topics relevant to the emerging canons of the
                    "new" military history; thus they only indirectly concern themselves with actual
                    fighting.
            In a suggestive lead article, Linda Carlson Sharp of the Indiana Historical Society Library surveys
                    some of the contemporary maps and descriptions used by rival powers before the Revolutionary War to
                    advance contending claims to North America; an area they viewed as one with vast potential but also
                    as a drain on the limited resources of the mother countries.
            D. R. Farrell of the University of Guelph supports Sharp's conclusions. In his essay
                    analyzing the British war effort in the West during the Revolution, he notes that "Imperial
                    resources were strained virtually to the breaking point" (p. 21). Use of Indian allies was
                    not only morally troubling but supplying them was a burden unjustified by the meager military
                    results they produced.
            In a review of the causes of St. Clair's defeat by a federation of Northwest tribes in 1791,
                    Patrick J. Furlong of Indiana University, 
                        South Bend
                    , evaluates the role of failures in bringing about St. Glair's disaster.
                    Although the logistical failures were serious, he concludes that they were not the main factor in
                    the outcome of the campaign.
            Military architecture, that is, the construction of frontier fortifications, is examined by David A.
                    Simmons of the 
                        Ohio
                     Historical Society. He concludes that the wide variations found in the design of
                    frontier defenses were the result of the knowledge and experience of individual military engineers
                    along with cost factors, availability of materials, time constraints, and the nature of the enemy.
            Contributions by William Collins and Willian L. Potter are more narrowly focused. Collins, a
                    professor at Purdue University, reexamines the purpose and significance of the Spanish attack  on Fort 
                        St. Joseph
                     in 1781. Potter's essay concerns the actions of widely dispersed elements of
                    the King's (or Eighth British) Regiment that manned western posts during the Revolution.
                    His essay is written with verve but is marred by disconcerting colloquialisms, poor footnote form,
                    and awkward syntax.
            The last two articles depart from military themes. Richard Day provides an engaging account of Michel
                    Brouillet, fur trader, militia officer, interpreter, and scout for territorial governor William
                    Henry Harrison. An interesting individual on his own account, Brouillet was builder and resident of
                    a French style house discovered and restored in 
                        Vincennes
                     of which Day is curator. Robert M. McCluggage of Loyola University of 
                        Chicago
                     analyzes pioneer stereotypes. He suggests that a less "culture bound"
                    assessment of frontier society is in order.
            These essays and the extensive documentation that accompanies each of them testify to the wealth of
                    materials available for reevaluating this critical area during the emergence of the new nation.
            
               
                  
                            Butler
                         University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                G. M. Waller
         
         
            
               Tecumseh's Last Stand. By John Sugden. (
                        Norman
                    : University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press, 1985. Pp. xiii, 298. Illustrations, maps, appendix, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $19.95.)
            In a detailed study of the British-Indian retreat from 
                        Detroit
                     and Maiden during the War of 1812, John Sugden, a British historian, evaluates
                    strategies and examines myths that have baffled scholars since Tecumseh fell in the encounter near
                    Moraviantown in Upper 
                        Canada
                     on October 5, 1813. Major General Henry Procter, who commanded the British-Indian
                    armies, fled in haste after the encounter, leaving his baggage in hands that soon put his more
                    revealing correspondence into American newspapers. Accounts of this first American overwater foreign
                    invasion have sometimes "fallen prey," as Sugden says, to "indifferent
                    primary sources that bear upon the Indians, many of which are weltered in conjecture" (p.
                    x). Sugden has diligently searched British, Canadian, and American archives to end speculation.
            Even with "430 large manuscript pages" of Procter's court martial and the
                    captured records in his baggage, to say nothing of the self-serving reminiscences of platoons of
                    veterans in both armies, a definitive account remains elusive. The frailties and whimsies of human
                    perception, especially under the stress and in the chaos of battle, deny even the most determined
                    researcher  definitive answers. Collecting the many conflicting
                    accounts into a single narrative combines confusion with frustration. The author might have enhanced
                    the coherence of his work by sparing the reader some of the accounts identified as erroneous in
                    footnotes (pp. 262–63), and the one concerning Black Hawk, who claimed to be back in his
                        Rock River homeland during the battle.
            After examining all of Sugden's evidence the reader still must ask: Who killed Tecumseh?
                    Where is he buried? Was it his body or that of another Indian that was multilated? Nor are readers
                    likely to modify previous notions about Procter, despite Sugden's assertion that the
                    British commander "was not the inhumane coward so repeatedly portrayed" (p. xi).
                    During the events covered in the book, Procter was too outnumbered to display inhumanity, and his
                    memory of Indian atrocities at River Raisin gave him sufficient reason to flee,
                    as he did, at Moraviantown in the face of Hoosiers and Kentuckians.
            Sugden's research nevertheless richly provides Indian and British perspectives lacking in
                    early American accounts, a proper emphasis on the strategic importance of Commodore Oliver Hazard
                    Perry's control of Lake Erie, and a reminder that the British and
                    Indians still "controlled Michillimackinac, St. Joseph, and Prairie du Chien"
                    after the battle at Moraviantown (p. 204).
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Robert G. Gunderson
         
         
            
               Where the Saints Have Trod: The Life of Helen Gougar. By Robert C. Kriebel.
                    (West 
                        Lafayette
                    , Ind.: Purdue University Press, 1985. Pp. xii, 238. Illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $17.25.)
            Journalist Robert C. Kriebel's purpose in writing this biography is an admirable one: Helen
                    Gougar, once as prominent a reformer as Susan B. Anthony and Frances Willard, has been all but
                    forgotten, and Kriebel wants to rescue her from oblivion and to pay tribute to a "native
                    daughter" of 
                        Lafayette
                    . He tells the story of Cougar's life and times in a breezy style that matches
                    the pace of this restless reformer's life.
            Helen Gougar married a lawyer and learned so much from assisting with his practice that in 1894 she
                    was able to challenge Indiana's election laws by attempting to vote. Her action launched a
                    test case of women's suffrage that eventually went to the Indiana Supreme Court.
                    Cougar's involvement with reform had begun thirty years earlier in the female culture of 
                        Lafayette
                    's literary and benevolent associations. But a combative  temperament and strong convictions soon pushed her beyond those polite
                    circles. Gougar became a speaker whose forceful personality and good looks always drew a crowd.
                    Traveling thousands of miles a year, she gave lectures on temperance and suffrage, charging fifty to
                    one hundred dollars for each appearance. Her pace was frantic: a speaking tour during 1887, for
                    example, consisted of sixty-four lectures in five weeks.
            Gougar was also a journalist. She wrote a weekly column that, despite the demeaning title
                    "Bric-a-Brac," covered major issues of the day. And in 1883 she began to edit a
                    temperance weekly, Our Herald, whose motto was "Freedom and Law Know no
                    Sex." As owner-editor of a weekly she had a position of influence few nineteenth-century
                    women enjoyed.
            Repeated failures of the suffrage and prohibition amendments, however, eventually caused Gougar to
                    become disillusioned. The wit which had always characterized her writing ("Nine-tenths of
                    the women with brains above an oyster demand the ballot," she wrote in 1881. p. 74) turned
                    to a bitter cynicism; as a speaker she was so forceful that the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Herald described her as an "unsexed diabolical bulldozer" (p.
                    106). Her prohibition stance led to a break with Susan B. Anthony and with the Indiana suffrage
                    movement.
            Kriebel's biography relies almost exclusively on Gougar's writings and on newspaper
                    accounts of her speeches. While this allows the reader to enjoy the flavor of her language, it is at
                    the expense of the historical context of Gougar's life and work that secondary sources
                    could have provided. It is unfortunate that Kriebel chose not to consult the extensive historical
                    scholarship on women and reform published in the last quarter-century since Eleanor
                    Flexner's Century of Struggle (1959). Thus the central problem of why
                    Helen Gougar engaged in a lifetime of reform activities remains a mystery. Kriebel has "a
                    hunch" that her motives, as his title suggests, were religious. But this is a vague and
                    unconvincing label to pin on the flamboyant, worldly Gougar. Readers who want a more detailed and
                    sophisticated analysis of women's reform in the nineteenth century will find it in Ruth
                    Bordin's Woman and Temperance: The Quest for Power and Liberty,
                        1873–1900 (1981) and Nancy Hewitt's Women's
                        Activism and Social Change in 
                     Rochester, New York
                  , 1822–1872 (1984).
                    Though disappointing in its failure to make connections between the life of Helen Gougar and other
                    suffrage, temperance, and feminist leaders, Where the Saints Have Trod
                    nevertheless provides the first full account of a remarkable Hoosier. It also shows how, even
                    without the vote, one woman—brilliant, wealthy, and childless—could lead a
                    remarkably full public life.
            
               
                  
                            Auburn
                         University, 
                            Alabama
                        
                Ruth Hutchinson Crocker
            
            
               HELEN GOUGAR, c. 1880
               Courtesy 
                            Tippecanoe County
                         Historical Association, 
                            Lafayette
                        . Ind
            
         
         
         
            
               Paul G. Hoffman: Architect of Foreign Aid. By Alan R. Raucher (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1985. Pp. xi, 208. Illustrations, notes, essay on sources, index. $22.00.)
            Paul G. Hoffman crowded two rather distinct careers into a long and active life. From 1925 until 1948
                    he was one of 
                        South Bend
                    's leading citizens, working to bring Studebaker to significant levels of
                    success as "America's Friendliest Factory." From 1948 until 1971 he was
                    involved in a variety of public service efforts, beginning with the Marshall Plan and concluding
                    with the United Nations Development Program. During these careers he developed a national reputation
                    as a "progressive" business leader and a devoted champion of the efficacy of
                    foreign aid for economic development. Along with other like-minded business leaders of his day, he
                    has come to be identified with the notion of "corporatism," a term which suggests
                    an economic policy based on a conservative form of Keynesianism and a flexible attitude toward labor
                    relations. In the sphere of foreign relations Hoffman believed that foreign economic aid aimed at
                    creating markets in developing nations was the best way to achieve the goals of ensuring political
                    stability and fostering the growth of free enterprise.
            Alan R. Raucher's meticulously researched and well-written biography outlines the career of
                    Paul Hoffman in a generally sympathetic way. Based on a wide variety of manuscript and oral history
                    sources, including Hoffman's own papers at the Truman Library, the book relies little on
                    existing published material, although Raucher includes a lengthy and comprehensive bibliography of
                    relevant secondary sources.
            More often than not, biographies are criticized because the author has not been able to resist the
                    temptation to include every known fact, however trivial, about his or her subject's life,
                    making for eternally long and boring books. This is a fault which can by no means be laid at
                    Raucher's feet. His biography, in 165 pages of text, is a model of succinct writing. For
                    the readers with more than a casual interest in Hoffman, however, this succinctness can be
                    frustrating. On numerous occasions some event or activity in Hoffman's life is briefly
                    mentioned and then forgotten, leaving the reader with unanswered questions. For example, we are told
                    that Hoffman served on the Automotive Council for War Production during World War II, but we do not
                    learn how Hoffman, an anti-New Deal Republican, received the appointment, what the council did, what
                    role Hoffman played in its work, and what significance this service may have had on
                    Hoffman's later public service.
            
            Raucher, who published an article on Hoffman's concern for automotive safety in the
                    September, 1983, issue of this journal, has given us a brief and very readable biography of an
                    individual certainly deserving of a biography. Had he fleshed out his skeleton, one could claim that
                    he had written the definitive life of Hoffman. Nonetheless, the book is worthwhile, both for its
                    explorations into the business history of the automotive industry and for its insight into various
                    economic aspects of the Cold War years.
            
               Indiana University Southeast, New 
                            Albany
                        
                John E. Findling
         
         
            
               Novus Ordo Seclorum: The Intellectual Origins of the Constitution. By Forrest
                    McDonald. (Lawrence: University Press of 
                        Kansas
                    , 1985. Pp. xiii, 359. Notes, appendixes, bibliography, index. $25.00.)
            Three decades ago, when Forrest McDonald published We the People: The Economic Origins
                        of the Constitution, a book designed to clear the historical landscape of Beardian
                    remnants, he promised two sequels on the making of the Constitution. The first of these, E Pluribus Unum, appeared in 1965 and treated the political context of the
                    movement toward the Constitution. The present volume deals with the intellectual origins. The delay
                    has been fortunate. McDonald brings to the subject the fruit of a career devoted to reading and
                    contemplating the sources dealing with eighteenth-century politics. Whatever the strength of his
                    insight, or his truly impressive synthetic ability, one can doubt that the book could have been
                    written thirty or even twenty years ago. McDonald remains his own historian, singularly so in many
                    instances, but he plainly builds on the work of Robbins, Bailyn, Pocock, Colbourn, and Wood. The
                    book is both a brilliant exposition of his own views and a judicious extension of the work of the
                    last generation on the intellectual history of the revolutionary age.
            Ideas, for McDonald, are imbedded in experience. In the jargon of the time, he writes about the
                    sociology of ideas. The point is made in a chapter on "The Rights of Englishmen"
                    that describes the constitutional basis of the English conception of natural, legal, and
                    prescriptive rights that were to be so important in the making of American independence. Indeed he
                    sees the Constitution as an experiential document, the consequence of much practical give and take
                    among politicians of varying opinions and interests. This alone would be little advance in the
                    historiography of the subject. McDonald's contribution is in the  taxonomy of ideas that informed late eighteenth-century political
                    activity. The Americans were conscious revolutionaries and constitution makers, but they came at the
                    tail end of a century and a half of intense intellectual ferment. The mental constructions available
                    to them by way of motivation, explanation, or justification were of considerable
                    variety—and often enough contradictory. In McDonald's terms these included:
                    "natural-law and natural-rights theory, republican ideology of both the
                    classical-cum-puritanical and the Harringtonian-cum-Bolingbrokean variety, Montesquieu, the English
                    legal tradition, [and] the Scottish Enlightenment" (p. 144). Superimposed on these
                    categories was a vestige of the larger, distinctively English division of Court and Country which
                    persisted even into the late colonial period. By dint of painstaking and lucid exposition, McDonald
                    manages to make sense out of this vastly complex intellectual melange.
            Although the work on the whole is a model of dispassion, McDonald has his favorites. He has little
                    patience with Bolingbrokean conspiracy theories though he respects the effects of this mode of
                    thinking on the American experience. He prefers 
                        Hamilton
                     to 
                        Madison
                     and much diminishes the usual role accorded to 
                        Madison
                     in the formation of the Constitution. The founding generation, he concludes, was wise
                    enough to devise "a new order out of materials prescribed by the ages," drawn
                    loosely enough to "live and breathe and change with time" (p. 293).
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Bernard W. Sheehan
         
         
            
               Magnificent Voyagers: The U.S. Exploring Expedition, 1838–1842.
                    Edited by Herman J. Viola and Carolyn Margolis. (
                        Washington
                    , D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985. Pp. 303. Illustrations, maps, appendixes,
                    references, index. Clothbound, $35.00; paperbound, $17.50.)
            Through the ages, whether it was the search for El Dorado, Prester John, or the River of the West,
                    grand illusions have often been the moving force behind exploring expeditions. The history of the
                    U.S. Exploring Expedition began in the 1820s as a consequence of a theory of John Cleves Symmes that
                    held that the earth was hollow and that there were openings at the poles into which ships could
                    sail. But there were also other forces that helped launch this successful expedition. Foremost among
                    them was the "important interests of our commerce embarked in the whale-fisheries, and
                    other adventures in the great Southern Ocean" (p. 43). The mission of the expedition was to
                    gather data  and artifacts in support of science, trade,
                    diplomacy, and navigation.
            In August, 1838, the six ships of the expedition set sail from Hampton Roads, 
                        Virginia
                    . The squadron returned four years later after a cruise of eighty-five thousand miles.
                    Under the command of Lieutenant Charles Wilkes the expedition explored and charted hundreds of
                    Pacific islands, circumnavigated the globe, identified 
                        Antarctica
                     as a continent, and mapped nearly a thousand miles of 
                        Oregon
                     coast.
            Accompanying the several hundred naval personnel of the expedition were nine civilian naturalists,
                    known as the Scientifics, who put together a collection consisting of tens of thousands of
                    specimens. In their treasure trove were two thousand birds, one thousand corals, crustaceans, and
                    mollusks, fifty thousand plants, and thousands of other artifacts.
            This "interesting flotsam and jetsam," as John Wesley Powell described the
                    collection, was finally housed in the National Museum of the 
                        United States
                    . To commemorate this gift to the Smithsonian Institution and to celebrate the
                    seventy-fifth anniversary of the Museum of Natural History, an exhibit honoring the expedition was
                    put on display in 1985. Out of this exhibition, titled Magnificent Voyagers, came
                    the idea for this collection of twelve essays, mainly dealing with the scientific and navigational
                    achievements of the expedition.
            Though a few essays, such as those on geology and the two on vertebrates and invertebrates, might be
                    too technical for the general reader, they are insightful and succinct. Other essays deal with
                    Wilkes as diplomat, the surveying of the Pacific Ocean, and the connection between the expedition
                    and the Smithsonian.
            This informative and well-researched volume is an important addition to the literature of American
                    exploration. The book's excellent illustrations demonstrate even better than the essays the
                    magnificent scientific achievements of the Wilkes Expedition.
            
               Purdue University Calumet, 
                            Hammond
                        , Ind. Richard A. Van Orman
         
         
            
               Hudson's Heritage: A Chronicle of the Founding and the Flowering of the
                        Village of Hudson, 
                            Ohio
                        . By Grace Goulder Izant. (
                  Kent, Ohio
               : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1985. Pp. vii, 278. Illustrations, maps, notes, index.
                    $27.50.)
            Hudson was settled on 
                        Ohio
                    's Western Reserve in 1800 by Congregational families from 
                        Connecticut
                    . Laid out in New 
                        England
                     style, with a large central green dominated by the 
                    church, its founders conceived Hudson as a fresh start for New Englanders seeking to build an ideal
                    community. Hudson's Heritage is a popular account of the founding and
                    first century of that town.
            Grace Goulder Izant, a Hudson resident for sixty years and longtime newspaper editor and writer,
                    completed her book just before she died in 1984. It is a series of related vignettes rather than a
                    smoothly flowing chronicle. The early chapters sketch the 
                        Connecticut
                     background, David Hudson and other promoters, the origins of the Western Reserve, and
                    the mechanics of moving out to the 
                        Ohio
                     frontier. Later chapters focus on notable residents, the town's Congregational
                    church, and Western Reserve College (founded in Hudson in 1826).
            Gaps inevitably result from such an organizational scheme. There is little discussion of town
                    politics or of ordinary residents: who they were, their circumstances, or why they were attracted to
                    Hudson. Neither is there much economic history. It is difficult to know just what kept the town
                    going, how it may have been affected by the depressions of 1819 and 1837, or what effect the 
                        Ohio
                     Canal may have had on its fortunes. Izant provides somewhat more about the boom that
                    accompanied the arrival of the railroad in 1851, but she skips over the Civil War era and ends at
                    the turn of the century with the return of a Hudson native who found success in 
                        Chicago
                    .
            There is something even more frustrating than the omissions and broken chronology. Izant raises, but
                    fails to pursue, an interesting question of motivation. Why did David Hudson, and presumably others
                    like him, give up a comfortable life in the East to face the rigors of the frontier? Was it simply a
                    matter of the greater opportunity for a vastly increased material fortune, prestige, and influence?
                    Izant suggests something more. David Hudson wrote in his journal that he would move to the
                    "solitary wilds of the 
                        Connecticut
                     Western Reserve where my former sins are unknown" and there, as atonement for
                    prior transgressions, promote a town, administer it on strict Christian principles, maintain it
                    under law and order, and support morality and education (p. 42). But in the end it is unclear how
                    his vision shaped the town of Hudson and made it unique, or perhaps typical of other frontier
                    settlements.
            A powerful sense of spiritual and moral rebirth may have infected other easterners with a similar
                    sense of purpose not normally associated with the frontier enterprise. Perhaps John Brown's
                    religious-inspired radicalism (
                        Brown
                     lived in Hudson for two decades) or the Reverend David Bacon's attempt to
                    establish a Congregational Utopia adjacent to Hudson could be explained  in these terms as well. A deeper probing of Hudson's rich
                    sources may have made a more intriguing and significant history at the same time it retained a
                    popular audience.
            
               Eastern 
                            Connecticut
                         State University, Willimantic Emil Pocock
         
         
            
               The March to the Sea and Beyond: Sherman's Troops in the Savannah and
                        Carolinas Campaigns. By Joseph T. Glatthaar. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        New York
                     University Press, 1985. Pp. xvi, 318. Illustrations, maps, appendixes, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $27.95.)
            Joseph T. Glatthaar has gone beyond the all too frequent recounting of the heroics of the great
                    military leader and the strategic placement of troops on the battlefield to provide the reader with
                    the best treatment to date of Sherman's troops in the Savannah and Carolinas campaigns. His
                    emphasis is, as the subtitle suggests, on the common soldier, and the result is a chronicle of
                    activities of real people. While the campaigns themselves only covered a period of approximately six
                    months, they were controversial and hastened the cessation of hostilities.
            Heading into the campaigns with an army sixty thousand strong, including several Indiana regiments,
                    Sherman introduced the concept of "total war." The success of the concept was due
                    in large measure to the character of the troops who served in his forces. Glatthaar analyzed the
                    enlistments in Sherman's forces and discovered that nearly one in every two soldiers
                    re-enlisted for three years compared to one in every thirteen for the Union forces as a whole. He
                    further calculated the general health of Sherman's Army and found that in any given month
                    there was 5 to 10 percent less illness than in the remainder of the Union Army. Election statistics
                    from the Sherman forces indicated Lincoln received 86 percent of the vote. In sum,
                    Sherman's troops were battle hardened veterans, relatively healthy, and overwhelmingly in
                    support of the Union cause and the successful prosecution of the war.
            The author has made extensive use of letters, diaries, and reminiscences so that the reader obtains a
                    clearer notion of the soldiers' attitudes toward blacks, southern whites, camp life,
                    foraging, destruction, and pillaging. These sources reveal that a reduction of racial prejudice
                    toward blacks had evolved by the end of the campaigns. Conversely, attitudes toward southern whites
                    were less symphathetic; many of the troops finding them to be the sole cause for the war.
            
            The book, part of the American Social Experience Series, is precisely that, a social history of
                    Sherman's troops in these famous campaigns. Readers expecting a recounting of strategy or a
                    retelling of combat activity will be disappointed. However, there are already several fine
                    monographs on those subjects. One hopes that Glatthaar's work will act as a catalyst and
                    inspire further publications on the common soldiers' participation in campaigns under
                    individual generals on both the Union and Confederate side.
            This book is interesting, well written, and adequately illustrated. In sum, it would be a fine
                    addition to anyone's Civil War bookshelf.
            
               
                  
                            Kentucky
                         Department for Libraries and Archives, 
                            Frankfort
                        
                Frank R. Levstik
         
         
            
               America and the Germans: An Assessment of a Three–Hundred–Year
                        History. Vol. I, Immigration, Language, Ethnicity; Vol. II, The Relationship in the Twentieth Century. Edited by Frank Trommler and Joseph McVeigh. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Press, 1985. Pp. xxxii, 376; xvii, 369. Illustrations, notes, maps, tables, indexes.
                    Vol. I, $19.95; Vol. II, $19.95; set, $35.00.)
            The last decade provided two significant anniversaries for the "Germans in
                    America," or, more broadly conceived—as in the title of the present
                    work—for "America and the Germans": 1976, the nation's
                    bicentennial, with an unprecedented revival of historical and genealogical
                    ("roots") interest; 1983, the three hundredth anniversary of the first German
                    group settlement in 
                  Germantown, Pennsylvania
               . Both occasions gave rise to numerous
                    celebrations and to many publications in the academic and the popular vein on both sides of the
                    Atlantic. Small wonder when we consider that approximately one quarter of our population claims some
                    form of German descent.
            Unlike A. B. Faust's famous two-volume set, The German Element in the 
                            United States
                        
                (1909), the present work, ably edited by Frank Trommler and Joseph McVeigh,
                    did not come into being through the immense industry of a single scholar; its forty-nine essays are
                    based on papers presented at the University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Tricentennial Conference, the premiere event by the scholarly community on the occasion
                    of the 
                        Germantown
                     tricentennial. Another difference is a broadened scope that includes, with nearly equal
                    emphasis, the political, economic, and cultural relationships between the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Germany
                     during the twentieth century.
            
            The team of contributors represents a good cross section of who's who in German-American
                    studies: G. Moltmann (immigration patterns), Don Yoder (
                        Pennsylvania
                     Germans), J. A. Hostetler (the Plain People), K. N. Conzen (ethnicity), J. Eichhoff
                    (the German language in America), I. V. Rippley (the effect of World War I), Fritz Stern
                    (U.S.-German relations), Christiane Totten (acceptance and rejection of German-Americans), H. A.
                    Strauss (German-Jewish immigrants since 1933), to name but a few. Americanism and anti-Americanism
                    in 
                        Germany
                     are analysed by F. Trommler and K. Sontheimer respectively. M. L. Huffines and J. A.
                    Fishman address the issues connected with German language maintenance in the U.S., and H. Jantz,
                    Christian E. Schweitzer, A. Ritter and others examine German-American literature up to some
                    contemporary authors writing in German.
            No doubt, an anthology of this nature has its definite value both for the researcher and the novice
                    in German-Americana. In most instances the reader will find the editorial intent to have been
                    realized; that is, to reflect "the current state of scholarship," but
                    "formulated with the uninitiated reader in mind."
            The majority of the individual contributions are focused on nationwide description and interpretation
                    of the respective phenomena: nationwide for the 
                        United States
                     and for 
                        Germany
                     respectively. Consulting the very useful index will not lead to an Indiana entry.
                    Francis Lieber, the originator of the Encyclopedia Americana, is listed; our own
                    Hoosier Liebers, Hermann and Richard, are not. We must not be disappointed about that. A look at and
                    an understanding of the larger contexts will help us assess our regional and local German-Americana
                    better, whether as variations of dominant patterns or as unique manifestations. Familiarity with the
                    broader context eliminates guesswork in that respect. We also stand to gain methodologically from
                    proven approaches employed by researchers on the national scale. While not all contributions in
                    these two volumes are of equal weight and scholarly thoroughness—an unavoidable
                    consequence in publishing conference papers—the reader will find a gold mine of
                    information and interpretation, including valuable bibliographical references; e.g., in the copious
                    notes of H. Wellenreuther's "Image and Counterimage, Tradition and Expectation:
                    The German Immigrants in English Colonial Society in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , 1700–1765."
            Investing in this work is definitely recommended for all libraries and for people interested in
                    German-Americana and U.S. relations with 
                        Germany
                    .
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Eberhard Reichmann
         
         
         
            
               Life Behind a Veil: Blacks in 
                     Louisville, Kentucky
                  ,
                        1865–1930. By George C. Wright. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1985. Pp. xii, 302. Notes, tables, maps, selected bibliography,
                    index. $27.50.)
            The black experience, according to George C. Wright, was different in 
                        Louisville
                     from what Afro-Americans experienced in other southern cities. Host to a
                    "polite form of racism" between the end of the Civil War and the Great Depression, 
                        Louisville
                     offered its black community little harsh treatment and no lynchings during a period in
                    which most blacks in the urban South were the object of intimidation and violence. 
                        Louisville
                    's blacks also "consistently enjoyed and exercised an oft-contested
                    but never effectively retracted enfranchisement" (cover). The black vote, however, did not
                    contribute to substantial political leverage, and there were no significant improvements in the
                    quality of the civil rights of blacks. Paternalism on the part of whites "carried over from
                    antebellum days in 
                        Louisville
                    " (cover), and whites helped blacks establish schools, hospitals, and other
                    institutions. Wright agrees with Howard Rabinowitz that such activities made the maintenance of
                    strict segregation easier, and that blacks generally accepted such assistance with the understanding
                    that they would refrain from advocating civil and social equality. He also develops the notion,
                    probably best expressed by Kenneth Kusmer, that blacks made the most of their position on their own,
                    and that through their own efforts they created a "diversity and richness of life"
                    in their community (p. 10).
            In general, Wright carries out his stated purpose most effectively. His study, which deals with a
                    southern border city, adds much to the growing body of historical literature on the black urban
                    experience. The author has consulted a variety of primary and secondary materials (although
                    unaccountably not the federal population schedules) in the pursuit of his goal, a narrative of the
                    means whereby Louisville blacks came to grips with second-class status. The reader will find some
                    unique contributions to the literature here. Especially valuable are Wright's explorations
                    of education and politics. Also his accounts of interracial organizations in the 1920s are most
                    interesting.
            A few matters, however, are left either untouched or superficially treated. The work begins with the
                    end of the Civil War, although frequent reference is made to the pre-1865 legacy of paternalism. An
                    introductory chapter on antebellum 
                        Louisville
                     would have been helpful. The study also contains little on the matter of occupational
                    mobility—for example, to compare the experiences of black and white
                    newcomers—and does not attempt to  show the
                    development of residential segregation via such devices as an index of dissimilarity. Perhaps the
                    author, moreover, could have treated the subjects raised in chapters ten and twelve (the NAACP and
                    interracial organizations of the 1920s) in one chapter, thus more coherently analyzing black
                    responses to white racism. It should be added that some illustrations would have helped, and that
                    the four maps provided in the book are not very useful.
            Nevertheless, this is a well-researched and ably written piece, and it is an important addition to
                    the history of black Americans.
            
               University of Southern Indiana, 
                            Evansville
                        
                Darrel E. Bigham
         
         
            
               The History of 
                            Wisconsin
                        . Volume III, Urbanization and Industrialization,
                        1873–1893. By Robert C. Nesbit. (
                        Madison
                    : State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1985. Pp. [xiv], 693. Notes, maps, illustrations, tables, appendix, essay on sources,
                    index. $30.00.)
            Because, in part, of the influence of progressives such as Robert M. La Follette, Sr., in not only
                    shaping but interpreting the development of 
                        Wisconsin
                    's history, the late nineteenth century in that state has often been viewed as
                    a prelude, a time of darkness before the coming of the light, a time of corruption and
                    self-indulgence before the dawn of an era of political honesty and public-spirited service. In his
                    extensive history of 
                        Wisconsin
                     from 1873 to 1893, Robert C. Nesbit establishes the importance of this period in its
                    own right and offers a more balanced analysis of its dynamic features. It was, he argues, a critical
                    period during which the state moved from an "extractive frontier economy" to a
                    "mainly urban-centered economy operating on the leading edge of contemporary industrial
                    technology" (p. v), and during which settlement patterns changed dramatically as
                    communities sprung up in relatively unpopulated areas of the state and people gravitated toward
                    burgeoning towns and cities. It was also a period in which politics and governmental structures
                    began to respond, sometimes quite effectively, to a variety of new challenges.
            By organizing the book into three sections entitled "The Economy,"
                    "Communities," and "Politics and Government," Nesbit has created
                    a framework which makes the history of this complex period more accessible. Although the
                    book's final section provides a very interesting vantage point from which to assess the
                    Progressive Era which was to follow, it is the shortest of the 
                    three sections. Nesbit gives far more attention to the major economic changes which occurred during
                    the period and to their social impact. He includes, for example, a discussion of life styles on
                    farms, in villages, towns, and cities, and a rather extensive analysis of attitudes toward women and
                    the changing roles which women played. He also ably describes the critical importance of ethnic and
                    religious considerations in many aspects of life in that period of 
                        Wisconsin
                    's history.
            Nesbit, who previously published a one volume history of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , has mastered an extraordinary variety of sources and has written a clear, sometimes
                    compelling, historical study. A series of ably executed maps throughout the volume complements his
                    presentation. The third volume in a proposed six volume history of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , Urbanization and Industrialization, 1873–1893, is an
                    outstanding contribution to our understanding of the history of 
                        Wisconsin
                     and to our comprehension of the dynamic forces in the late nineteenth century which
                    changed the face of the country.
            
               
                  
                            Hanover
                         College, 
                            Hanover
                        , Ind. Stanley P. Caine
         
         
            
               Paths of Resistance: Tradition and Dignity in Industrializing 
                            Missouri
                        . By David Thelen. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1986. Pp. 321. Tables, note on sources, notes, index.
                    $29.95.)
            David Thelen has written a broadly interpretive book about the period between 1877 and 1917, but it
                    is a book designed to influence the present and the future as well, for he discusses the New
                    Right's usurpation of tradition in the present in an introduction and provides a statement
                    about prospects for the future in an epilogue. For Thelen there has been an ongoing struggle between
                    an old order and a new order. In his words: "This struggle occurred within an all-embracing
                    transformation of Missourians' lives that began in the early nineteenth century. In the old
                    order, family, work, leisure, friends, community, natural surroundings, and worship had interwoven
                    to form an integrated fabric. The new order's economic imperatives of competition and
                    growth drove an ever-widening wedge between economic activities and social and cultural traditions.
                    The new order replaced the authority of persons with an invisible hand that created new kinds of
                    dependence, shame, guilt, success, and failure. Soon the relentless competitive demands pushed
                    outward from the economic centers of change in markets, jobs, and business to encompass the ways
                    people relaxed, prayed, and learned. When  managers shaped the
                    production of only-too-visible new corporations around the new market, and when those corporations
                    assumed the power and authority that strong neighbors had wielded in the old order, Missourians
                    discovered that the soulless new corporations felt none of the traditional communal responsibilities
                    that had motivated powerful neighbors in the past" (p. 3).
            Railroad building played a crucial role in establishing the author's new order, and in his
                    treatment of the period, Jesse James becomes America's "Classic Social
                    Bandit." Bald Knobbers, or vigilantes, of southwest 
                        Missouri
                     represent the popular belief "that conflicts between the old and new orders
                    could not be contained within formal legal institutions" (p. 92). Public education becomes
                    a tool of the developers of the new order, but, "The developers … lost the
                    cultural war over values" (p. 116). The militia and city police forces are depicted as
                    "new military forces [trying! to compel outward obedience to [the] codes of the new order
                    as they supplanted older forms of social discipline" (p. 108).
            In the paragraphs above one will find much to question, including the sufficiency of evidence
                    supporting Thelen's assertions, but one may well be stimulated to think anew about 
                        Missouri
                     after the Civil War. Thelen's treatment of the Progressive movement in 
                        Missouri
                    , on the other hand, is superb. The author's handling of Folk, Hadley, and the
                    evolution from attacking corporate power to regulating it is well-documented and persuasively
                    argued. The author's discussion of Scott Joplin is also excellent. Some nine misspelled
                    words should have been caught by the editor.
            
               University of 
                            Missouri
                        , Rolla Lawrence O. Christensen
         
         
            
               Woodrow Wilson and World War I, 1917–1921. By Robert H. Ferrell. (
                        New York
                    : Harper and Row, Publishers, 1985. Pp. xii, 346. Maps, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. Clothbound, $19.95; paperbound, $8.95.)
            The New American Nation Series, arguably the most complete collection available in American history,
                    has long had a missing link. The first volume in the series, which began in 1954, covered the period
                    from 1912 to 1917. In it the editors told of their plans for a succeeding volume "on the
                    First World War and the collapse of Wilsonian idealism and internationalism." This gap has
                    been aptly filled by Robert H. Ferrell's book.
            
            The volume is not a mere synthesis of secondary sources, but one that draws on the archives of four
                    countries, manuscript collections, oral histories, and the unpublished reminiscences of some of the
                    military participants in the war. The author makes particularly effective use of the diaries and
                    letters of soldiers (including that of Captain Harry S Truman) to personalize the large movements in
                    which they participated. The result is a lively and readable account of events that are still
                    shaping our lives.
            Ferrell movingly describes the battles of the summer of 1918, noting the valor of the new American
                    army as well as the needlessness of many of its sacrifices. But in securing victory for the Allies
                    this same American army prevented the war from ending in a negotiated settlement; a result which
                    Wilson believed was the best long-term solution to the conflict.
            The book begins with Wilson's request for a declaration of war and ends with the election of
                    1920. These were momentous and crowded years. But because Ferrell's book is brief (only 235
                    pages of text), there is necessarily some unevenness in the coverage, which focuses on military,
                    diplomatic, and political developments.
            The author is generally critical of Wilson's handling of the war, but he does not hold the
                    president responsible for flaws in the Treaty of 
                        Versailles
                    . Although conceding that Wilson made some tactical errors, he ascribes the failure of
                    the peacemakers to world forces that were simply too large to be analyzed and handled.
            Ferrell is most critical of Wilson's efforts to obtain Senate ratification of the treaty. He
                    believes that the Senate would have approved the treaty if Wilson had made even a minimal effort to
                    understand his opponents. The author attributes the president's reluctance to court
                    congressional support to his innate shyness and his tendency to view political issues in terms of
                    black and white. The resulting struggle brought Wilson's "brilliant political
                    career to a pitiful end" (p. 156).
            
               Purdue University Calumet, 
                            Hammond
                        , Ind. Alfred D. Sander
         
         
            
               Bluegrass: A History. By Neil V. Rosenberg. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1985. Pp. xii, 447. Notes, illustrations, bibliography, discography, aural
                    history, interviews, index. $24.95.)
            From the stage of the Grand Ole Opry on April 19, 1986, came the announcement by Bobby Osborne of the
                    internationally famous Osborne Brothers bluegrass group that, "Tonight,  we are privileged to have in the audience Neil Rosenberg, author of a
                    new book called Bluegrass: A History." Such recognition, heard by a radio
                    audience all over the eastern part of the 
                        United States
                    , likely indicates how the bluegrass music industry in general feels about
                    Rosenberg's newest contribution to the growing field of bluegrass literature.
            Originating in the Upper South in the 1930s and 1940s, bluegrass music developed into a distinct
                    genre in the 1950s thanks to the talents of such musicians as Bill 
                        Monroe
                     and the Bluegrass Boys (the group that started the bluegrass sound), Lester Flatt and
                    Earl Scruggs, the Stanley Brothers, and the Osborne Brothers, among a host of others. Bluegrass
                    music in its pristine form relies chiefly on acoustic, nonelectric, string instruments; rapid tempo;
                    and a tight vocal harmony that is pitched higher than country music.
            Rosenberg's study focuses on the bluegrass groups that religiously define(d) their music
                    according to these characteristics. It is, as the title of the book indicates, a history of the
                    genre's origins and developments, rather than a technical treatment of the music or a
                    textual analysis of the songs performed by the musicians. This valuable book, however, is more than
                    just a genealogy of bluegrass bands: it places the music in the larger context of American musical
                    currents. For example, the affinity of bluegrass with commercial gospel music and the urban folk
                    revival is spelled out clearly, as is the tension between bluegrass, rock and roll, and country
                    music.
            Rosenberg spent fifteen years researching and writing what may very well be his magnum opus. His
                    persistent quest for information led him to trade publications, phonograph recordings, published
                    oral histories, tape-recorded interviews, discographies, and songbooks. The resulting twelve
                    chapters are full of new information and provide rich insights into an art form that Rosenberg
                    himself has been performing since before our days together as graduate students in folklore at
                    Indiana University during the early 1960s.
            
               Bluegrass: A History is well written in clear prose, and the text is augmented with
                    illuminating photographs of the performers. But the book is not particularly suited for pleasure
                    reading as it is weighted down with miniscule facts. Even devotees and scholars will have some
                    trouble in this regard, for every item of information is presented as if it were as important as
                    every other one. Within chapters, topics of varying degrees of significance are given equal
                    treatment. As a result, there is no real sense of proportion in the book. With its encyclopedic
                    character, however, this book will serve as a (perhaps as the) standard reference on the subject for
                    many years to come.
            
               Western 
                            Kentucky
                         University, Bowling Green Lynwood Montell
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
