
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 68, Issue 3, pages 181-282. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:68+issue:3+year:1972&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            "Gone for a Soldier":
            The Civil War Letters of Charles Harding Cox
            
                    Contributed by Mrs. Caroline Cox Wyatt
                    *
                
            
                    Edited by Lorna Lutes Sylvester
                
            In January, 1864, Charles Harding Cox wrote his sister in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana: "Was it patriotism, belligerant spirit, or tired of home that
                    induced me to enlist. I am sure it was not the last and for the life of me can not think why I came
                    for a ‘sojer’." Such a statement was unusual for Cox whose
                    exhuberance and enthusiasm carried him through almost three years of service in the Seventieth
                    Indiana Volunteer Infantry Regiment during the Civil War, and a few lines later he reassured his
                    sister: "Katie! I was a fool for writing the above and did not think while writing it. ...
                    You must not think I am having a rough time, as no soldiers have ever seen a more easy and pleasant
                    time than the Seventieth Indiana. ..."
            Cox had thoroughly enjoyed his first eighteen months in the army. From August, 1862, to January,
                    1864, most of his time had been spent guarding trains and performing picket duty near
                            
                  Bowling Green, Kentucky
               , and Gallatin, 
                        Murfreesboro
                    , and 
                  Nashville, Tennessee
               .1 He had frequently received
                    "bids" to dances and parties and thought southern girls "far more
                    agreeable and sociable than those at home." Yet, as Cox warned his sister, the Seventieth
                    Indiana in January, 1864, had been assigned to a new corps "in the extreme front"
                    and the real "tug of war" was to come. As part of the First Brigade, Third
                    Division, Twentieth Army Corps the Seventieth Indiana participated in the 
                        Atlanta
                     campaign and Major General William T. Sherman's march to the sea in 
                        Georgia
                     and the Carolinas campaign. After the surrender of General Robert E. Lee in April,
                    1865, the regiment marched with Sherman's army to 
                  Richmond, Virginia
               , and on
                    to 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., where it was mustered out in June, 1865.2
            
            Cox participated in and wrote about the severe battles at Dalton, 
                  
                     * Mrs. Caroline Cox Wyatt of 
                        Atlanta, Georgia
                     ,
                            is the daughter of Charles Harding Cox. The complete, original Cox correspondence and papers
                            are in Mrs. Wyatt's possession. Microfilm copies of most of the letters are located
                            in the Emory University Library, 
                        Atlanta,
                                    Georgia
                     . All pictures are from the personal
                            collection of Mrs. Wyatt.
                  
                     1 [William H. H. Terrell,] Report of the Adjutant General
                                of the State of Indiana (8 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1865–1869), II, 646.
                  
                     2
                            Ibid., 646–47.
               
                     Resaca, Kenesaw Mountain, Peach Tree Creek, and the siege of 
                        Atlanta
                     in 
                        Georgia
                     with the same underlying excitement that had characterized his earlier letters home. He
                    felt "bilious" when he saw his fellow soldiers slaughtered at Buzzard Roost and
                    graphically described the carnage at Golgotha: "Several men had their heads shot off close
                    to their shoulders, and men with arms and legs taken off was [sic] quite
                    common." But, he told his sister: "such is the risk of a soldier and if they get
                    hurt it is their ill luck." Brigade commander Colonel Benjamin Harrison cited Cox for
                    "his coolness and his efforts to rally the men" at Resaca in May, 1864;3 and of the young Hoosier's actions at Peach Tree Creek two months
                    later Lieutenant Colonel Samuel Merrill, commanding the Seventieth Indiana, wrote: Cox
                    "brave as a lion, rushes ... to the hilltop, waves his hat exultantly, and beckons a
                    command ‘Forward!’. ..."4
            
            An increasing maturity as well as a continuing enthusiasm are apparent in Cox’ letters
                    from January, 1864, to June, 1865. His descriptions of towns, officers, the southern people, and the
                    war in general are far more perspicuous during his last eighteen months of service than was his
                    earlier preoccupation with parties, girls, visitors to camp, and camp life. Cox, a Republican,
                    supported Indiana Governor Oliver P. Morton and President Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    , denigrated the Democrats and Copperheads—whom he often
                    equated—and pitied the defeated southerners in a fatalistic kind of way. He rarely
                    complained, and he never questioned what he considered the purpose of the war, the preservation of
                    the Union. "‘America’ is a great word in the Army," he
                    wrote, "and when the boys of our army wish to speak of home or the North,
                    America is invariably used." Despite 
                        Lincoln
                    's issuance of the Emancipation Proclamation, however, Cox’ obvious
                    feeling of superiority over and his dislike of Negroes continued throughout the war.
            Cox also remained "ambitious in the military line" during his sojourn in the army.
                    Although he was not quite eighteen in August, 1862, when he entered the service, by January, 1864,
                    he had risen from company clerk and orderly sergeant to second lieutenant of Company E in the
                    Seventieth Indiana. After the death of his friend, Lieutenant Edward B. Colestock, Cox was
                    commissioned first lieutenant on July 1, 1864, and was mustered into that position on September 1.
                    When Captain William M. Meredith of Company E resigned due 
                  
                     3
                            The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official Records of the Union
                                and Confederate Armies (70 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1880–1901), Ser. I, Vol. XXXVIII, Part II, 372.
                  
                     4 Samuel Merrill, The Seventieth Indiana Volunteer
                                Infantry in the War of the Rebellion (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1900), 142.
               
                     to ill health, Morton on August 13, 1864, commissioned Cox as
                    captain. While the young Hoosier was on detached duty with the regiment, however, the Twenty-Seventh
                    Indiana Volunteer Infantry was combined with the Seventieth, and an officer from the Twenty-Seventh
                    assumed command of Company E. Cox was therefore never mustered as captain.5
            
            In his final Civil War letter on June 1, 1865, Cox was again unusually despondent. He berated his
                    sister for not writing and complained: "I am in pretty good health not the best as I have
                    been working hard in the office lately & no exercise, together with ugly dreams and no
                    letter from the ‘Girl I left behind’ has caused me to look & feel a
                    ‘little the worse for wear’. ..." Cox’ sister, Catharine
                    Ward Cox (Mrs. Frank B.) Lord, whom he called Katie, was one of his most faithful correspondents
                    during his three years in the army; the other was his stepmother, Catharine Leila Fitler Cox, the
                    "Ma" frequently mentioned in his letters. The correspondence here published was
                    written by Cox to his sister and to his brother-in-law, Frank B. Lord, and includes letters from
                    January 14, 1864, to June 1, 1865. The Lords, who were associated with the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     Railroad, lived in both the Hoosier capital and 
                        Cincinnati
                     while Cox was in the army, and letters were sent to them in both locations.6 Cox’ earlier Civil War correspondence, that from August 8, 1862, to
                    December 12, 1863, was published in the Indiana Magazine of History in March,
                    1972.
            
               
                  5 Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, II, 642, 643,
                        646.
               
                  6 Much of the personal information about Charles Harding Cox and his
                        family was supplied by his daughter, Mrs. Caroline Cox Wyatt. Other sources include a brief
                        biography of Cox filed with the microfilm copies of his papers in the Emory University Library;
                        a photostatic copy of the 
                            Atlanta
                        
                        Constitution, March 3, 1939, Cox Papers; and numerous letters and documents in
                        the Cox Papers.
            
            
            
               LIEUTENANT CHARLES HARDING COX.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Hd Qrs Co "E" 70th Ind Vol Infty
                              
                                 
                                    Nashville
                                    Tenn
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Jan 14th AD 18641
                           
                                
                        Katie!
                        My dear Sister!
                        I had intended writing to you to-day, whether I recd a letter from you or not, but as
                                    your last very kind letter came to hand by this mornings mail, it is just in time
                                    for an answer.
                        My last letter to Ma enclosed several phots of your little brother, I am in doubts
                                    whether they will arrive all safe as I am afraid they were miscarried to the office
                                    here, its makes but little difference anyhow as you at home are
                                    supplied with a view of the physiognomy of the only representative of the Cox family
                                    in the army of the U.S. I believe, and strange to me that he ever
                                    left the enjoyments and comforts of home, for a soldier boy. Was
                                    it patriotism, belligerant spirit, or tired of home that induced me to enlist. I am
                                    sure it was not the last and for the life of me can not think why I came for a
                                    "sojer". Do you Know? I[t] seems a person does not know
                                    when he is well off, and I am sure the greatest inducment known,
                                    would not enslave me for another three years, and may the day
                                    speedily arrive which will deliver me from my present bondage.
                        Katie! I was a fool for writing the above and did not think while writing it, or, my notions concerning the war, service &c change so
                                    often & quick that I hardly know my opinion myself. You must not think I am
                                    having a rough time, as no soldiers have ever seen a more easy & pleasant
                                    time than the Seventieth Indiana, still the tug of war is to come, and as we have
                                    been assigned to a new Corps (11th) which is mainly in the extreme front, we may
                                    look for our sojourn here near at a close and a few weeks will see us journeying
                                    still further into the "Sunny South".2 Had the
                                    70th been allowed 
                              
                                 1 With the exceptions here indicated the Charles
                                            Harding Cox letters have been followed faithfully in this transcription.
                                            Spacing of headings, salutations, and closings has been standardized, but
                                            the punctuation originally used in these portions of the letters has been
                                            retained. Sentences added in the margins have been included after the
                                            closing. Cox seemingly used commas, periods, dashes, and equal signs
                                            interchangeably, whether at the end of or within sentences. Similarly it was
                                            difficult to distinguish between exclamation marks and colons following the
                                            salutations. Although an effort was made to determine Cox’
                                            intent, complete consistency was impossible, and the editor has been
                                            somewhat arbitrary in transcribing commas and periods in an attempt to make
                                            the letters easier to read. Equal signs at the end of sentences and
                                            paragraphs have been changed to dashes. It was frequently impossible to
                                            ascertain whether Cox meant to use capitals or lower case letters, to begin
                                            new paragraphs, or to write certain words as two words or one, i.e., today
                                            or to day. In such instances the editor has attempted to conform to
                                            Cox’ intent or, when a decision could not be reached, has
                                            followed modern practice. Superior letters have been brought down to the
                                            line; flourishes and obviously unintentional repetitions have been omitted;
                                            incorrect spellings have been retained and have not been indicated by a
                                            [sic] or a correction except for a few proper names and for words which
                                            might be misunderstood.
                              
                                 2 On January 2, 1864, the Seventieth Indiana Volunteer
                                            Infantry Regiment was assigned to the First Brigade, First Division,
                                            Eleventh Army Corps. Colonel Benjamin Harrison of the Seventieth Indiana
                                            commanded the brigade; Brigadier
                           
                                     to enlist as Veterans I am sure they would have
                                    went in en-masse, but as we have seen but 18 months service and two
                                        years old is the minimum time, allowed volunteers to become Veterans, we
                                    will be obliged to await our time.3
                        
                        I was mistaken in writing Ma that Lt Tom 
                                        Campbell
                                     was A.D.C on the Staff of Col Ben It was the rumor through camp that he
                                    had been detailed and I was aware he was exerting himself for the position.4
                        
                        The Negro boy "Lewis" that we have had to wait upon us, took sick
                                    several days ago and layed in his quarters until yesterday, when I sent for the
                                    Surgeon to attend him, at the Dr's first sight of him he pronounced it the
                                    Small-pox, which created quite a hub-bub amongst the boys and some alarm to think
                                    the Small pox had been in their midst for so long. I ceased my calls on the nigger
                                    immediately, on hearing his disease and we had him dispatched "double
                                    quick" to the pest house. Should he die, he will be the second servant of
                                    mine who has gone up since we have been in 
                                        Nashville
                                    .
                        I was sorry to hear Frank has abandoned his trip to the "Rock
                                        city".5 I was in hopes of seeing his smiling
                                    countenance in this region and showing him around this part of the globe. My hand is
                                    so nervous I can scarcely write this morning, occasioned by overexertion yesterday
                                        chopping wood or the coldness of my tent at present writing.
                        I heard about Miss Stretchers party, from a young lady who might have been there, and suppose they enjoyed a pleasant
                                    evening. Is Mr and Mrs Violland still at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     I have not heard a word about them since I was home.
                        
                           General Oliver O. Howard commanded the corps. [William H. H. Terrell], Report of the Adjutant General of the State of Indiana (8
                                        vols., 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1865–1869), II, 646; Mark Mayo Boatner, III, The Civil War Dictionary (
                                            New York
                                        , 1959), 413. See also Samuel Merrill, The Seventieth
                                            Indiana Volunteer Infantry in the War of the Rebellion (
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1900), 69.
                           
                              3 According to General Orders 191 (June 25, 1863), 305
                                        (September 11, 1863), and 376 (November 21, 1863), veterans who had less than
                                        one year to serve would receive one month's pay in advance, a bounty
                                        and premium of approximately $400, and thirty days furlough if they
                                        would reenlist. The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the
                                            Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies (70 vols., 
                                            Washington
                                        , 1880–1901), Ser. III, Vol. III, 414–16, 785,
                                        1084. This set is hereafter cited as Official Records. The
                                        Seventieth Indiana had been mustered into service in August, 1862; thus, Cox
                                        still had eighteen months left to serve.
                           
                              4 Thomas S. Campbell of 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , a friend of Cox and his family, was second lieutenant of Company
                                        K, Seventieth Indiana. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant
                                        General, II, 645.
                           
                              5 Atop Lookout and Pigeon mountains and at other locations
                                        in nearby Tennessee and 
                                            Georgia
                                         are a number of curiously shaped sandstone rocks, some as large as
                                        two story buildings. These formations have long been termed Rock City, Rock City
                                        Gardens, and similar names. Apparently one of the oldest such sites known to
                                        tourists is located on Lookout Mountain in 
                                            Georgia
                                        , a short distance from the Tennessee line. According to one source
                                        written in the mid twentieth century, "This natural creation is known
                                        to have been attracting visitors for over a hundred years" and is
                                        considered "the most magnificent of them all." Robert Sparks
                                        Walker, Lookout: The Story of a Mountain (Kingsport, Tenn.,
                                        1941), 23–24.
                        
                        
                        I have a "bid" to a dancing party this evening and anticipate a
                                    pleasant time, as the young ladies here a[re] far more agreeable and sociable than
                                    those at home.
                        I will expect an answer to this sometime between this and 4th of July. So dont fail
                                    to write My love to the Folks, and with much love to you I am affectionately
                        
                                    Your brother,
                                    Charlie
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nashville
                                  Tenn.
                           
                                    Jan 29th A.D. 1864.
                                
                        My Dear Sister.
                        I am not much in a humor for writing this morning, still being the recipient
                                    yesterday of your last containing Carte-de-Visite
                           6 of your little self. I must answer and acknowledge its receipt. Katie I am
                                    much obliged for the same and think its is an excellent picture. The one you gave me
                                    several years ago, must be somewhere around the house, as I left it home when I came
                                    for a soldier.
                        We have had during the past ten days, as mild and pleasant weather as could be
                                    desired. Spring seems upon us in full force and the "fever" is
                                    prevalent throughout camp. Linen clothes would be a good institution during the day,
                                    but at night half-dozen blankets will hardly keep us from freezing.
                        Well, Katie we are now under "Marching Orders" for the front, and by Monday next we expect to start, we would leave immediately,
                                    but we have so many arms & accoutrements to be condemned & dropped
                                    and so much extra luggage and equipments to dispose of it will be impossible to
                                    leave before Monday Feb 1st. We have to march the entire distance
                                    over 150 miles, a pleasant little walk for the sake of getting to
                                    the front to be shot at.
                           7
                        
                        It has been over 5 months since our arrival at 
                                        Nashville
                                    , long enough to be well acquainted and tired of the place, time begins
                                    to pass slowly and a change is needed to inspire us with new life. I like the moving
                                    part very much but the idea of marching is not quite so agreeable,
                                    when a railroad runs exactly where we are going. Two Negro Regts went to the front
                                    last week, they were taken on the railroad, but our white Regts have to walk. Making a White Man almost as good as a Nigger.
                        
                        Our entire Brigade goes in a body commanded by our little Col Ben. I will write to Ma
                                    again before I leave.
                        
                           
                              6 A carte de visite was a photograph of a person, mounted
                                        on small card.
                           
                              7 The Seventieth Indiana did not leave
                                                
                                 Nashville, Tennessee
                              , until February
                                        24, 1864, when it marched with its division, commanded by Brigadier General
                                        William T. Ward, to Wauhatchie, 
                                            Tennessee
                                        , in Lookout Valley. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant
                                            General, II, 646; see also Merrill, Seventieth
                                        Indiana, 69.
                        
                        
                        
                           PAGE
                                        FROM COX’ LETTER
                                        OF JANUARY 29, 1864, ILLUSTRATING CROSSHATCHING.
                        
                        
                        Those SHIRTS have not yet arrived and unless they come by the evening of the 30th I
                                    am afraid I will not get them.8 I have not time to write you
                                    more this time, so please excuse shortness Direct your next care 1st Brig 1st Div 11th Army Corps Army of the 
                                            Cumberland
                                        
                            and the letter will come to me wherever we are. My love to all
                                    the folks and a good portion for yourself.
                        
                                    Affectionately
                                    Your brother
                                    Charlie
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Nashville
                                  Tenn
                           
                                    February 20th A.D. 1846 [sic]
                                
                        My dear Sister!
                        By this mornings mail I was the happy recipient of your latest, also one from Ma of
                                    same date. I answer yours at once and write to Ma next week. I was sorry to hear of
                                    Father's illness and sincerly hope he has fully recovered ere this. My wish
                                    at least forty times a day is, that I were home to assist him in business and
                                    releive him of part of his duties.9 I would rather be home than
                                    here anyhow, not that I am homesick but think my services would be
                                    more appreciated. I can see no way now of quiting the army but
                                    think by next fall the war will be sufficiently at a close to enable Officers to
                                    resign with ease. My patriotism and love of country is strong as ever, and to give
                                    Jeff [Davis] & his diciples a through thrashing and no compromise is my
                                    desire.
                        I suppose Father has recd the two-fifty I expressed home yesterday.
                                    I have just bought me a fine Dress suit and can put on the style with anyone now.
                                    Military goods being very high the suit cost me about $75.00
                        Sunday: 21st: The foregoing was written yesterday & I was unable to finish on
                                    account of an Inspection which came off just as I commenced
                                    writing.
                        This morning I attended the Episcopal church and heard the Rev Mr Harlow preach, the
                                    church has a fine organ and choir which almost equals our church for fine music
                                    & singing. Many pretty girls attend the church adding to its attractions. I
                                    met Mrs Harlow after church and introduced myself, she introduced me to her husband
                                    with invitation to call at the parsonage occasionally, which is 
                              
                                 8 In a letter to his sister on December 18, 1863, Cox
                                            requested that "a couple white shirts"
                                            be sent to him. See Lorna Lutes Sylvester, ed., "‘Gone
                                            for a Soldier’: The Civil War Letters of Charles Harding
                                            Cox," Indiana Magazine of History, LXVIII (March,
                                            1972), 76.
                              
                                 9 Charles Cox, Charles H. Cox’ father,
                                            operated the Hoosier State Foundry and Stone Works on South Delaware Street
                                            in 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            . Partners in the firm were Charles Cox, Frank B. Lord, and a
                                            man whose last name was Peck. See ibid., 27,
                                            48–49.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              CATHARINE COX LORD,
                                                Cox’ SISTER.
                           
                                    
                              FRANK B. LORD, COX’ BROTHER-IN-LAW.
                           
                                     over the river in Edgefield. Mr Harlow starts
                                    for 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     Tuesday (23d), she will not accompany him.10
                        
                        We have Marching orders again to day, and will leave surely tomorrow or next day and join Maj Gen Hookers command at the
                                        front.11
                        
                        My health still remains excellent. Mrs Harrison arrived this evening, just as we are
                                    about to start again, she seems unlucky in that respect.
                        I will write again as soon as we arrive at our destination, and if I have time will
                                    write Ma before we start, if I dont you will probably not hear from me again for
                                    some time.
                        I am, Your affec't brother Charlie.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Wauhatchie Tenn.
                           
                                    March 30th AD 1864 8 PM
                                
                        My dear Sister;
                        Yesterdays mail made me the happy recipient of your latest dated 22nd inst which I
                                    answer immediately in my usual style. In the same mail with yours came also a good
                                    long letter from "The girl I left behind" and the two letters
                                    together inspired me with new life and it was a marked fact that I
                                    was in a better humor and more happy than I have been since our sojourn in this
                                    wooden country, so you see what pleasant effect the receipt of letters has upon me,
                                    and will take the hint and write often. I acknowledged the receipt of Socks
                                    &c in a letter to Ma and thought them really nice. I shall be obliged before
                                    long to make a requisition to you at home for several needy articles that money will
                                    not buy down here, in "Dixie". I am in hopes of being paid soon
                                    when I can furnish the wherewith. Prices are enormous and these
                                    Sutlers have no delicacy in asking a man five or six prices for their goods.12 While writing this a telegram was handed Capt Meredith
                                    informing him of the dangerous illness of his wife—with Spotted Fever, he is very much excited in consequence and will endeavor to
                                    obtain "leave of absence" so as to start home on tomorrows train.
                                    His application has to pass through a long routine of red tape
                                    before arriving at the proper Authority to grant him leave 
                              
                                 10 Cox was an Episcopalian, and his father, Charles
                                            Cox, had served as a vestryman and trustee of Christ Episcopal Church in 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            . Eli Lilly, History of the Little Church on the
                                                Circle: Christ Church Parish, 
                                                    Indianapolis
                                                , 1837–1955 (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1957), 40, 46, 54, 92, passim.
                              
                              
                                 11 Major General Joseph Hooker commanded the combined
                                            Eleventh and Twelfth Army Corps with headquarters in Lookout Valley, 
                                                Tennessee
                                            . Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 409. See also
                                                Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. XXXII, Part II, 282.
                              
                                 12 Sutlers, who accompanied troops in the field or in
                                            garrison to sell food, drink, and supplies, were required by the articles of
                                            war to "supply the soldiers with good and wholesome provisions or
                                            other articles at a reasonable price." Quoted in Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 822. The sutlers’ wares,
                                            however, were usually offered at prices which placed them beyond the reach
                                            of the average soldier. Union troops frequently complained that sutlers were
                                            never around except for brief intervals after payday. Bell Irvin Wiley, The Common Soldier in the Civil War. Book I, The Life of Billy Yank (
                                                New York
                                            , 1951), 232.
                           
                                     It has to pass through the following hands to
                                    be signed, approved or disapproved before it reaches Maj Gen Thomas who has power to
                                    grant the leave, Viz—Maj Merrill, Comd'g 70th Col Harrison
                                    Comd'g Brig, Gen Ward Comd'g Div, Gen Howard Comd'g
                                    Corps, Gen Hooker Comdg 11th and 12th Corps and then to Thomas himself, it will then
                                    return to Capt through same Channel being apprv'd or
                                        disappr'v'd.13 There is no doubt but the
                                    Capt will succeed, he being an Officer. Now if it was a private
                                    soldier whose wife is fully as dear to him, he would stand no chance at all of
                                    visiting her while dying.
                        March 31st 1864: Katie! I was interrupted last night by business and have left your
                                    letter until this afternoon to finish. Capt M left for home at noon to-day. I am
                                    glad he got to go, as his presence at home will probably do good, he will arrive at
                                    Ind'polis Saturday Morning long before you receive this, he will probably
                                    call see you while there.
                        Wm R. Hushaw a private of Co "E" died in Brig Hospital at 10
                                    oc'l'k this morning,14 he was an estimable
                                    young man and a good christian. He will be buried with Military honors tomorrow and
                                    if his parents desire, his body can be sent home in a Metalic Coffin. Our Company
                                    has been the most fortunate of any in the Regt, only three men
                                    have died since in the service, while in some other companies near 20 have died.
                        Several Regts of our Corps went out yesterday on a Reconnoisance down near Trenton
                                    Geo. they anticipate a skirmish and will doubtless bring in several hundred
                                    prisoners or be taken themselves. Rebel deserters are continually coming within our
                                    lines, I have conversed with many of them, who think the "Confed
                                    States" will play out in a few months. I hope it may, as I am anxious to
                                    return home and assist father in business.
                        I must tell you a joke about a young Married Man in "D" Co who was
                                    lately promoted to "8th Corporal" from private. On receiving the
                                    promotion he wrote home to his wife abou [t] it, which tickled her very much at the
                                    idea of his being an Officer, and wrote him to resign and come home or else treat the boys well & with respect
                        
                           
                              13 Captain William M. Meredith of 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         commanded Company E of the Seventieth Indiana. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, II, 642. The line of command
                                        as indicated by Cox was Major Samuel Merrill, commanding the Seventieth Indiana;
                                        Colonel Benjamin Harrison, commanding the First Brigade; Brigadier General
                                        William T. Ward, commanding the First Division; Brigadier General Oliver O.
                                        Howard, commanding the Eleventh Army Corps; Major General Joseph Hooker,
                                        commanding the combined Eleventh and Twelfth Army Corps; and Major General
                                        George H. Thomas, commanding the Army of the 
                                            Cumberland
                                        . Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. XXXII, Part II,
                                        285.
                           
                              14 According to the Indiana adjutant general's
                                        report William R. Hushaw of 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         died of disease at Lookout Valley, 
                                            Tennessee
                                        , on March 31, 1864. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant
                                            General, VI, 126; VIII, 607. The 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        
                                        Daily Journal, April 11, 1864, reported his death as due to
                                        congestion of the brain accompanied by symptoms of spotted fever and listed his
                                        age as twenty-two.
                        
                        
                        Yesterday our negro cook went about 150 feet up the hill above our camp and cut a six
                                    foot log—from a fallen tree—which accidenatly got away from
                                    him & came down the hill at full speed, striking the Sutler's tent
                                    completely demolishing it and frightening the nigger so much he looked like a white
                                    man for a few minutes. The boys of the Regt despise our Sutler so much for his
                                    impositions upon them, that any accident to his establishment is their delight, his
                                    tent is frequently cut down at nights and often robbed by men mean & wicked
                                    enough for such business, who can be found in any Regt. Katie, I hope I can secure a
                                    "leave of absence" and visit you a few day in your new home, as
                                    soon as you get comfortably quartered. I have a great many items to write but have
                                    not the time just now. Give much love to all at home yourself included and write
                                    soon & often. Remember me to Aunt Ellies family. Mrs Violland especially.
                        My health excellent. Your affect brother
                        
                                    Charlie
                                
                        Katie please excuse pencil, I am writing on my knee, and I upset so many
                                    inkstands I am almost afraid to look at one for fear it will tumble over.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Wauhatchie, Tenn.
                           
                                    April 17th A.D. 1864.
                                
                        My dear Katie!
                        Several days have elapsed since I was the recipient of your kind letter. The fact is
                                    I have not had time to write to you before now, it being a busy week with me somehow
                                    or other, besides a miserable tooth-ache lasting several days kept me out of humor
                                    and not inclined to write. It was a regular old jumping toothache
                                    and I wished a thousand times that Johnson Hunt or some experienced dentist was
                                    handy to extract it,15 as I was not desirous of having my head pulled off by risking one of our army Surgeons (or butchers)
                                    at it. The tooth is over its spree and I am glad it was not pulled
                                    as I want to save my "ivories" as much as possible to grind
                                    "hard tack" &c.
                        The 14th inst we had a grand review of our Corps (I mean the old 11th) by Maj Gen
                                        Thomas.16 It was the grandest military display I ever
                                    participated in and such as you never see at home. The Troops were all in fighting
                                    trim and looked handsome indeed. Three 
                              
                                 15 J. F. Johnston, sometimes listed as John F.
                                            Johnson, was an 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             dentist with an office at 11 West 
                                                Maryland
                                            . Geo. W. Hawes and Co.'s Indiana State
                                                Gazetteer and Business Directory for 1862 and 1863 (3rd ed., [
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1862?], 145; 
                                    
                                                    Indianapolis
                                                 Directory, 1871–72 ... (Bailey's Directory Series; 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1871), 229; M. V. B. Cowen, comp., Indiana State
                                                Gazetteer and Shippers’ Guide for 1866–7 (
                                                Lafayette
                                            , 1866), 334. P. G. C. Hunt was an 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             dentist located at 32 East Market Street. 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            
                                            Daily Journal, March 30, 1864.
                              
                                 16 Major General George H. Thomas commanded the Army
                                            of the 
                                                Cumberland
                                             from October 20, 1863, to June 27, 1865. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 836.
                           
                                     Major and six Brigadier General were present on
                                    the occasion and our old hero Thomas seemed much pleased with the style our eastern
                                    chaps put on and the hearty appearance of us western boys. Your humble
                                    serv't commanded the first company in the corps and felt quite big, being the extreme right man of the Corps.
                        You are aware I suppose of the consolidation of the famous old 11th & 12th
                                    into the 20th Corps, under Major General "Joe Hooker" Col Harrison
                                    takes command of 70th Ind, Brig Gen Ward our Brigade and Maj Gen Butterfield our
                                    Division and the 1st Brig 3d Div 20th A.C. is what they now call us.17
                        
                        I learn from Capt M that he has called at our house and seen you and Ma. I hope my
                                    boots will be ready for him to bring. We expect him to make his appearance amongst
                                    us on Wednesday, 20th inst. Tell father, if he cannot send the boots by Capt to
                                    express them to 
                                        Chattanooga
                                    , as our wagon go down to the city daily and I will have no trouble
                                    getting them.18
                        
                        We are looking for Lieut Mart[in] Ohr and his party to return to Regt this week. They
                                    are doing no good at home now and their presence in the Regt would releive us from a
                                    lot of duty.19
                        
                        Cousin (Dr) Fitzgerald is the only Surgeon now with the Regt and I could myself do
                                    all the service he has to do or rather does.
                           20
                                    A soldier is hardly better than a dog in a Surgeons point of view and no matter what
                                    his complaint is, dover powders or quinine pills are administered. Sick Call is
                                    sounded at 7 A.M. when the 1st Sergt of each Co collects the sick, blind and halt of
                                    his company and marches them to the Surg quarters, where the Surg has a stool and
                                    each man takes his turn to be attended to. The first man takes a seat on the stool,
                                    the Dr says, "what ails you?" "Pain in my
                                    side," he answers and a prescription is given him for quinine, when the man has to go to the Regm'l "shoticary
                                    pop" show his prescription and is issued his 
                              
                                 17 On April 4, 1864, a new Twentieth Army Corps,
                                            commanded by Major General Joseph Hooker, was formed from the old Eleventh
                                            and Twelfth Corps. Major General Daniel Butterfield commanded the Third
                                            Division, Brigadier General William T. Ward the First Brigade, and Colonel
                                            Benjamin Harrison the Seventieth Indiana. Later, after June 29, 1864, Ward
                                            took over the Third Division, Harrison moved to commander of the First
                                            Brigade, and Lieutenant Colonel Samuel Merrill commanded the Seventieth
                                            Indiana. Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. XXXII, Part III,
                                            364; Vol. XXXVIII, Part I, 99.
                              
                                 18 In letters to Katie on October 19, 30, 1863, Cox
                                            had requested his father to pick up a pair of boots which he had ordered
                                            from James Davis, a boot and shoemaker in 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            . Sylvester, "Civil War Letters of Charles Harding
                                            Cox," 74, 75. According to the 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            
                                            Daily Journal, April 16, 1864, Meredith had left for the
                                            front on that day.
                              
                                 19 First Lieutenant Martin L. Ohr of 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             served in Company A of the Seventieth Indiana. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, II, 641. He had been in
                                            the Hoosier capital for several months on recruiting duty but was scheduled
                                            to leave for the front on April 18, 1864. 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            
                                            Daily Journal, April 16, 1864.
                              
                                 20 Jenkins A. Fitzgerald, Cox’ cousin,
                                            served as assistant surgeon of the Seventieth Indiana. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, II, 641.
                           
                                     valuable medicine, the next man takes the
                                    stool,—"Well, what ails you?" "Sore foot" he says, another
                                    prescription for quinine and off he goes. The third man takes his
                                    turn, says "Have the sore eyes" the Dr will look at his tongue,
                                    feel his pulse and prescribe quinine or dover powders, probably 50
                                    men will attend Sick call and the Dr will look at every mans tongue feel his pulse
                                    and prescribe dover or quinine no matter what
                                    his complaint. No matter how sick a man is if he dont attend sick call in morning he
                                    cannot get any medicine untill the next morning. Quinine pills and
                                        dover powders have become such a common thing amongst the boys
                                    that every time the bugle sounds the sick call, half the regt will sing out
                                    "come get your quinine" until the bugle has ceased, keeping the
                                    words in chord with tune of the call.21
                        
                        Fitz hears frequently from Mattie Flenner who is now living at his Mothers, at 
                                        
                                            London
                                        
                                    , do you ever see her, she writes a splendid letter.
                        Katie dont be alarmed about my falling in love with any girls in this country. I have
                                    not seen a woman for 6 weeks, occasionally on "Refugee draw days"
                                    I see a piece of dirty calico—topped with an extra large sunbonnet and
                                    mounted on some old Govt condemned horse—standing in front of our Post
                                    Commissary to get the rations the Govt allows them—to keep from
                                    starving.—Some say they are women, but as I have never seen their
                                    features from under their monstrous sunbonnets, I cant say whether they are pretty
                                    or ugly, white or black.22
                        
                        Katie, Write me all the news and write often. I will not write more this time as I
                                    must write to Ma today or to morrow. I have recd her letter of 12th inst. Much love
                                    to you all. I am as ever
                        
                                    Your affect brother
                                    Charley.
                                
                        Direct me 1st Brig 3d Division 20th A. C. Wauhatchie, Tenn.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Head Quarters "Seventieth" Indiana Infty Vols
                              "In the Woods" Near Dalton, Ga.
                           
                                    May 8th 1864.
                                
                        My Dear Sister!
                        I was just informed by our P.M. that a mail would leave camp for the north at 4
                                    oc'lk this afternoon, and not wishing to let the opportunity pass without
                                    writing to some one I address this to you, 
                              
                                 21
                                            
                                                Dover
                                            's powder is a compound containing ipecac, opium, and
                                            sulfate of potash. Used as a sedative and sudorific, it was named after Dr.
                                            Dover, an eighteenth century English physician, who first compounded it. For
                                            a fuller description of soldiers’ opinions of medical treatment
                                            in the Union Army see Merrill, Seventieth Indiana,
                                            187–212; Wiley, Life of Billy Yank,
                                            124–51.
                              
                                 22 In a picture first published in either Harper's Weekly or Frank Leslie's
                                                Illustrated Newspaper, southern women are shown coming to the 
                                                United States
                                             commissaries for provisions. The scene is similar to the one
                                            Cox describes. Fletcher Pratt, arr., Civil War in Pictures (
                                                New York
                                            , 1955), 143.
                           
                                     hoping you will take time upon its arrival to
                                    make a reply. We have marched since I wrote Ma at Taylors Ridge about 30 or 40 miles
                                    and are now southwest of Dalton as a flanking column and together with the 15th
                                    Corps which came over on our right from 
                                        Huntsville
                                    , Ala, we will surely cut off the retreat of the rebels should they
                                    attempt to fall back to 
                                        Atlanta
                                    .23
                        
                        Johnsons entire rebel army is camped in and around Dalton only a few miles from us,
                                    our pickets & the rebs are in sight of each other and we are looking every
                                    minute for a fight.
                        The 20th corps is here en-masse commanded by Joe Hooker in person. The 15th corps
                                    (McPhersons) cooperates with us on this side of Dalton while the 4th & 14 A.
                                    Corps will attack from the North. I do actually believe before 24 hours a hard
                                    fought battle will begin and only a few miles from the tree I am sitting leaning
                                    against while writing this on my knee. We are now prepared to move on the enemy or
                                    they on us at a minutes notice, and if we do not have a brush soon
                                    the rebs are great cowards or we are not properly managed. Lt Hardenbrook with a
                                    squad of men of the 70th surprised a rebel picket post capturing several and a lot
                                    of horses. Capt Charlie Howard is now in our camp, he is Commissary Musters of XX
                                        A.C.24 Col Harrison has been in very poor health since
                                    leaving Wauhatchie, he is still doing duty and will not give up at this time. My
                                    health remains good, having much nicer time Act Adjt than if I were with my company
                                    taking it on foot.25 The general condition of the regt is
                                    unsurpassed and boys anxious to go for the rebs.
                        I haven't time to write but a word to day you may expect to hear from me at 
                                        Atlanta
                                     next time.
                        
                           
                              23 In the opening moves of General William T.
                                        Sherman's 
                                            Atlanta
                                         campaign Union troops engaged the Confederates in action near
                                        Dalton, 
                                            Georgia
                                        . Sherman hoped to dislodge Confederate General Joseph E. Johnston
                                        who was positioned along Rocky Face Ridge covering Dalton. Participants in
                                        battles at Tunnell Hill, Buzzard Roost, Mill Creek Gap, Snake Creek Gap, and
                                        Varnell's Station included Hooker's Twentieth Army Corps; the
                                        Army of the 
                                            Tennessee
                                        , commanded by General James B. McPherson; the Fourth Army Corps,
                                        commanded by General Howard; and the Fourteenth Army Corps, commanded by General
                                        John A. Palmer. Although the Union Army failed to cut Johnston's line
                                        of retreat, it did force Confederate withdrawal from Dalton. Sherman's
                                        next moves resulted in actions around Resaca, 
                                            Georgia
                                        . Boatner, Civil War Dictionary,
                                        189–90, 195, 538, 705–706. For a brief account of the
                                        Seventieth Indiana's part in battles near Dalton see Merrill, Seventieth Indiana. 83–84.
                           
                              24 First Lieutenant William Hardenbrook of 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         served in Company H of the Seventieth Indiana. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, II, 644. Captain Charles O.
                                        Howard, Eighteenth 
                                            United States
                                         Infantry, served on General Hooker's staff as assistant
                                        commissary of musters. Although Cox later speaks of him derogatorily,
                                        Howard's superiors apparently assessed his character differently. He is
                                        more than once cited in official reports for discharging his duties
                                        "promptly and faithfully" and "gallantly performing
                                        duties of aide-de-camp on the field." Official
                                        Records, Ser. I, Vol. XXX, Part I, 92; Vol. XXXI, Part II, 494; Vol.
                                        XXXVIII, Part IV, 335. See also Terrell, Report of the Adjutant
                                            General, II, xv.
                           
                              25 Cox frequently served as acting adjutant general of the
                                        Seventieth Indiana in the absence of Adjutant James L. Mitchell.
                        
                        
                        Much love to all at home. I sent to 
                                        Chattanooga
                                     for my boots, am looking for them this evening, to wear in the fight.
                        
                                    I am, Katie,
                                    Affect Your brother
                                    Charlie
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Head Quarters Seventieth Ind. V. I.
                              "In The Field" Near Buzzards Roost, Ga.
                           
                                    May 10th A.D. 1864.
                                
                        Dear Frank!
                        Having just finished writing a few Regm'l Orders and an extra sheet of paper
                                    left, a word to you concerning myself, yourself and matters & things in
                                    general. I wrote Katie I beleive on yesterday at a time when we were expecting to
                                    "engage the enemy" at any moment. The campaign has truly commenced
                                    in this Dept and active work must be done. All seem desirous to make the movement a
                                    decisive one. The country is perfectly alive with the stir of troops and positions
                                    for a hard struggle are now being taken. The XX A.C. having moved down from about
                                    Gordons Mill and Ringgold have formed a line immediately west of Dalton and Buzzards
                                    Roost, the 3d Div forms centre of our Corps, McPhersons Corps
                                    (15th and 16th) are still further south and in rear of Dalton while the 4th
                                    & 14th A.C's will cooperate with us from the North, so you see Mr rebs are snugly hemmed in at Dalton and must fight us or cave-in. Their fortifications are said to be impregnable but we
                                    are going for them before many hours. Part of the 1st Div XX Corps
                                    are now out on a reconnoisance and I think tonight the troops will be in position to
                                    start the ball rolling by morning. We were up under arms all last night expecting to
                                    take up a position for operations today but some hindrance prevented and we are now
                                    lying around the woods with 3 days rations in Haversacks awaiting orders to do something. Day before yesterday the 2d Division and 3d Brig of
                                    our Div were feeling the enemys lines near Buzzards Roost and in trying to take a
                                    gap in the hills ranging between us and the Roost—held by the
                                    rebels—were severly repulsed with loss of 400 men killed and wounded. The
                                    rest of our corps was lying within sight and almost in shooting distance of the
                                    fight but were not permitted to participate. It was rather bilious for us to look at
                                    those poor fellows slaughtered and not allowed to assist them26
                                    Joe Hooker is Comdg the 20th A.C. and now has his Hd Qrs at a house a mile from camp
                                    70th. We all have great confidence in Hooker and esteem him highly, also Maj Gen
                                    Butterfield, our Div Comdr, but Brig Gen Ward Comdg 
                              
                                 26 For explanation of the action at Buzzard Roost see
                                            footnote 23. See also the official report of Major General Thomas concerning
                                            actions at Buzzard Roost on May 8, 1864. Official Records,
                                            Ser. I, Vol. XXXVIII, Part I, 140.
                           
                                     our [manuscript torn] Brig is the poorest
                                    excuse for a Genl I ever saw, he keeps eternally drunk and has no
                                    confidence placed in him either by his superiors or inferiors, the only reason our
                                    Brig has so long been in the rear I have no doubt but by the time this reaches you
                                    every thing will be changed here the rebs either captured or given us the slip and on their way to 
                                        Atlanta
                                    .27
                        
                        News of Grants late success on the Potomac reached us this morning in shape of an
                                    order from Sherman. It was read to the boys by Colonel occasioning loud cheers.28
                        
                        Coburn with 33d Inda arrived yesterday from home they are in 2nd Brig 3d Div.29
                        
                        I am having nice enough time Act Adjt in absence of Mitch—home
                                    disabled—Col Ben & I are Messing together, our baggage consists
                                    of one "dog tent"30 a blanket apiece and one
                                    change of clothing all of which we strap on our saddles. Line Officers carry on
                                    their persons all their luggage to gether with 3 to 8 days grub in haversacks. Our
                                    valises & store clothes are stored at Wauhatchie 
                                        Chattanooga
                                     and [manuscript torn] Tunnell Hill and I have no idea we will ever see
                                    them again.
                        Col Jim Burgess with his Regt of boys is somewhere near Ringgold he
                                    was sold in leaving the 70th for such a command.31 400 of his boys "played out" on their
                                    march from 
                                        Nashville
                                     to the front. The 70th is in splendid condition and musters 700
                                    fighting men present—with an aggregate this morning of 857 present
                                    & absent.
                        It is now raining like the d—1 as I am setting under my rag writing this. You can imagine the dimensions of my quarters, when I tell
                                    you, that when I set on my posterior my head touches the ridge pole of the tent.
                        Tell Katie her letter was received a few minutes after I mailed 
                              
                                 27 Actions around Dalton concluded on May 11, 1864.
                                            Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 705–706. Other
                                            members of the Seventieth Indiana apparently also disliked Ward. See, for
                                            example, letter signed Bode to 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            
                                            Daily Journal, April 19, 1864.
                              
                                 28 From May 5–20, 1864, General Ulysses S.
                                            Grant Was engaged in his "relentless hammering" of General
                                            Robert E. Lee at the Wilderness and Spotsylvania. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 783–89, 919–25.
                              
                                 29 Colonel John Coburn of 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             served with the Thirty-Third Indiana from 1861 to 1864. He was
                                            brevetted a brigadier general on March 13, 1865. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, II, 323.
                              
                                 30 In his history of the Seventieth Indiana Merrill
                                            describes a dog tent as a "piece of light canvas about six feet
                                            square, with a row of buttons or button holes on three sides. ... The
                                            soldiers usually united two or four of these pieces, then stretching them
                                            over a horizontal pole, raised in forks about three feet high, fastened the
                                            short ropes attached to the corners to stakes in the ground. The patriots
                                            entered this dwelling on all fours. The single piece of muslin and a small
                                            oilcloth was carried by each man. ..." Merrill, Seventieth Indiana, 69–70.
                              
                                 31 Colonel James Burgess, formerly lieutenant colonel
                                            of the Seventieth Indiana, was mustered as colonel of the One Hundred
                                            Twenty-Fourth Indiana in March, 1864. He resigned his position on July 9,
                                            1864. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, II, 639;
                                            III, 241.
                           
                                     my letter to her—I will write her
                                    soon again—My health continues tiptop and since leaving 
                                        Nashville
                                     have become an unflinching teetotaler. Much love to
                                    sister and regards to all friends. Was glad to hear of your success in obtaining the
                                    G.L.A. You are doubtless acquainted with the fate of "John
                                    Harrolson", "Salt peter" cave &c, if not I will
                                    send you a copy of the documents.32
                        
                        Write me the "signs" if you have time and direct 1st Brig 3d Div,
                                    20th A.C. Dept of the Cumld
                        
                                    Yours
                                    Charlie
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Hd Qrs LXXth Ind. V. I.
                              Near Cassville, Ga.
                           
                                    May 22th 1864
                                
                        My dearest Sister!
                        Hardly 10 minutes after I mailed a letter to Ma day before yesterday I was made the
                                    happy recipient of your pleasant letter of 12th inst, also the package containing
                                    toothbrush, thread &c for which accept my heartiest thanks.
                        We are still in same spot from where I wrote Ma, something strange in that to us, but
                                    the troops were so fatigued and utterly exhausted from our late operations that
                                    Secesh bullets could not kill men half so fast, as they would have been if forced
                                    forward in condition they were in. The 18th we marched over 20 miles in heat of the
                                    day, each man being obliged to carry a heavy musket, Cardg box, 60 rounds
                                    ammunition, 3 day rations in haversack, knapsack, blanket, tent, and every thing he
                                    possesses in the army. I tell you it makes a heavy load for a man to carry, all day
                                    long on a force march.
                        I saw men fall in their tracks while trudging along, becoming so weak &
                                    powerless their legs would not carry them along, then after the labor of marching
                                    all day the night is spent in building defences and preparing for battle, the
                                    following day should we be in vicinity of Mr Johnson.
                           33 Tomorrow we start on a 20 days cruise with our smallest
                                    fighting weight and will live principaly off the country, as 
                              
                                 32 No information regarding the G.L.A. has been
                                            located. The 
                                                Cincinnati
                                            
                                            Daily Gazette, May 5, 1864, reported an item taken from
                                            the 
                                                Chattanooga
                                            
                                            Gazette concerning a young man who had been confined in a
                                            saltpeter cave for 270 days. This is perhaps the story to which Cox refers.
                              
                                 33 Following actions near Dalton, 
                                                Georgia
                                            , Confederate General Johnston established new defenses at
                                            Resaca. Battles there concluded on May 16, 1864, when Johnston withdrew
                                            toward Cassville. Deciding not to make a stand, he continued southeastward
                                            and took up new defenses at Allatoona Pass. Sherman then attempted an
                                            envelopment of the southern forces to the west through
                                                    
                                    Dallas, Georgia
                                 . Hooker's Twentieth
                                            Army Corps contacted the enemy in force and led the federal advance at
                                            Pumpkin Vine Creek on May 25, 1864. Action near 
                                                Dallas
                                             concluded on May 27 when Sherman, frustrated in his turning
                                            movement, maneuvered back toward the Western and Atlantic Railroad. Boatner,
                                                Civil War Dictionary, 219–20,
                                            691–92.
                           
                                     eatables are in aboundance here. It is a great
                                    mistake, to think the Confederacy could be starved out. Every family in northern 
                                        Georgia
                                     have provisions enough to last them several years and plenty to furnish
                                    the army. Coffee is scarce for during the past 12 Mo not a grain have they had.
                        Katie! I met with quite a severe accident last evening by being kicked by a horse on
                                    my left arm. The Dr hardly thinks the bone broken, but a severe bruise on the
                                    muscle. It is quite painful and causes my arm to be of no use and utterly powerless
                                    for the present. A couple weeks will find it free & well again.
                        Col H is not at all well having got poisoned some days since in going through the
                                    woods and becoming entangled in a poison vine. He is not disabled from duty, though
                                    it is quite unpleasant.
                        I rode over to the 4th A.C. yesterday and saw many friends in the 79th Ind. the
                                    Abbott boys amongst them. Maj Gen Howard com'ds the 4th A.C. I see Capt
                                    Charlie Howard almost every day, but do not think him of much force in the army, he
                                    is C.M. on Staff of "Joe Hooker".34
                        
                        It will be a rich joke on the 100 days men35 when the[y] are sent
                                    to 
                                        Nashville
                                     to releive Niggers to come36
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Hd Qrs "Seventieth"
                              Near Altona [Allatoona], Ga.
                           
                                    May 24th/64
                                
                        It is now about dusk and in 5 minutes the mail leaves camp, and as the Col is setting
                                    by my side writing to his wife, I have taken the fever, and having
                                    no wife a word to you.
                        It has commenced raining and by morning we will be up to our necks in water, being in
                                    the woods, camped for the night with no shelter, but a "dog tent"
                                    which is no protection against a storm. We 
                              
                                 34 Captain William A. Abbett of 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             served in Company A of the Seventy-Ninth Indiana. No other
                                            Abbett (Abbott) is listed with the Seventy-Ninth, but several men of that
                                            name served in other Indiana regiments. Terrell, Report of the
                                                Adjutant General, III, 24; VI, 277–91. Howard commanded
                                            the Fourth Army Corps, Army of the 
                                                Cumberland
                                            , from April 10-June 27, 1864. Boatner, Civil War
                                                Dictionary, 413. For information on Charles O. Howard see footnote
                                            24.
                              
                                 35 In response to a desperate need for troops in the
                                            spring of 1864, Indiana Governor Oliver P. Morton and Ohio Governor John
                                            Brough in cooperation with other midwestern state executives devised a plan
                                            to raise 85,000 volunteers to serve for one hundred days. These men were to
                                            receive no bounties and were not to be counted toward a state's
                                            regular quota of volunteers. President Abraham 
                                                Lincoln
                                             and Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton eagerly accepted the
                                            offer. Only 7,415 of Indiana's quota of 20,000 one hundred days
                                            troops could be raised. These men served their terms in Tennessee and
                                            Alabama guarding communications and supply depots, thus relieving older and
                                            more experienced troops—some of which were Negro
                                            regiments—for service with Sherman and Grant. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, I, 35–39. See
                                            also Kenneth M. Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil
                                            War (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXXI; 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1949), 228–29.
                              
                                 36 The conclusion of this letter is missing.
                           
                                     marched 15 miles on yesterday crossing Etowah
                                    River and skirmishing slightly with the rebs, today we made an equal distance having
                                    slight "chipping" with their rear guard. A large detail have been
                                    throwing up breastworks since stopping for the night—which looks as
                                    though the rebs were about. I hardly think we will have another big fight this side
                                    of 
                                        Atlanta
                                    , which place we expect to occupy June 1st.
                        My health is good and my arm improving, though quite sore from the bruise. We passed
                                    through the finest country I have yet seen in Dixie, this morning, splendid farms,
                                    spacious Mansions, but Nary Nigger, all having been run further south out of our
                                    present reach. A secesh lady, had the kindness to give me a canteen of Molasses
                                    today as we passed her house. It goes nice on hard tack.
                        
                        It is so dark I can hardly see my hand. So with much love to you all, hoping you
                                    remain in good health,
                        
                                    I am affect
                                    Charlie
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        army is just "across the street" from us, continually exchanging
                                    leaden & iron compliments with us37 and trading tobacco
                                    for coffee when there is a lull on the Skirmish line, here is the place I should
                                    love to see the redoubtable Col Vance with his battalion of "common
                                    school" children and let them feast on the pleasures of this campaign.38
                        
                        We will probably advance to day, as the "Johnnies" are supposed to
                                    be retreating across the Chattahoochie River to make a determined stand.
                        They are showing a bold front to day, probably to cover their retreat. We will have
                                    hard work before celebrating July 4th in 
                                        Atlanta
                                     (as we expect to do) Johnsons army now equals our own and the opinion
                                    is prevalent that Lee will spare sufficient men from the defences at 
                                        Richmond
                                     to give us a hard rub.
                        
                        The report reached us last evening that poor Ed has died from the wounds received at
                                    Resacca, it is a sad affair if true, a hard blow to his kind Mother and sisters and
                                    deeply regretted by his comrades in the 70th. Ed was a good boy, loved by his whole
                                    company, he was brave, and fearless and died from wounds received in serving his
                                    country. I last saw him the day after the battle in our Div Hospital, 
                              
                                 37 Since the initial page or pages of this letter are
                                            missing, it has not been possible to determine exactly when it was written.
                                            Internal evidence suggests that it was sent to Katie perhaps between May 24
                                            and June 20, 1864.
                              
                                 38 Samuel C. Vance served as major of the Seventieth
                                            Indiana until his resignation in April, 1863. He later served as colonel of
                                            the One Hundred Thirty-Second Indiana Infantry, one of the one hundred days
                                            regiments. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, II,
                                            640; III, 297. Although Cox’ reference to "common
                                            school" children seems to be a slighting remark about Vance and/or
                                            the one hundred days men, its exact meaning has not been determined.
                           
                                     he seemed cheerful and I had all hopes of his
                                    recovery though the Surg's accounts were gloomy indeed. I sincerely hope
                                    the report of his death may prove untrue and feel the deepest sympathy for his
                                    parents in their affliction.39
                        
                        Little Katie West is also dead, what a severe blow to her mother at the loss of so
                                    bright a child.
                        Kate I am pleased to learn you are at last esconced in your new home—one
                                    of your greatest desires—I feel confident in your abilities as a
                                    housewife and shall be pleased to make you a short visit, should I be so lucky as to
                                    pass safely through this campaign & enter the civilized world again.
                        While writing this on the lid of an U.S.A. Regulations—sitting on a
                                    cracker box, in the "shade of an umbrageous" pine, but little
                                    musketry going on and the morning pleasant, my ears are enchanted
                                    by the music of at least a dozen brass bands of our division. Hardly 50 yards to my
                                    right the band of 33d Ind is filling the air with the sweet strains of
                                    "Sounds from home", making me think of the times at home when I
                                    used to saw away on my violin at that air.40 We have many
                                    excellent bands in our division and many poor ones. Almost the finest brass band I
                                    have ever heard is that of 33d Mass Vols. accompanied by several recd instruments.
                                    It almost lifts me out of my boots to hear them play. I shall be pleased to hear
                                    from Frank at any time, and you my dear sister write me as often as possible. My
                                    conveniences are not the best for writing, so you will ma[ke] allowances for any
                                    tardiness or neglect I may make. I wrote to Ma and Father the 7th. My health never
                                    was better than at present, and were I where I could get something to eat some clean
                                    clothes, a pair of good boots I would be all O.K. I will close Katie and beleive me
                                    my dear sister with the greatest amount of love to you and your husband.
                        
                                    I am Affect
                                    Your only bro
                                    Charlie.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  39 Edward B. Colestock of 
                            Indianapolis
                         served as first lieutenant of Company E of the Seventieth Indiana. He died May 30,
                        1864, of wounds received during a battle at Resaca, 
                            Georgia
                        . Ibid., II, 643. The Twentieth Army Corps had participated in
                        heavy fighting at Resaca on May 13–16, 1864, before Johnston withdrew toward
                        Allatoona Pass and 
                            Dallas
                        . Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 691–92. Of
                        Colestock's actions at Resaca, Captain Meredith of Company E stated:
                        "Lieutenant Colestock ... waved his cap and cheered. Then noticing I was bareheaded, he
                        ... picked up a cap from the ground, placed it on my head and began cheering again. A moment
                        later he received the shot which in a few days terminated his life." Quoted in Merrill,
                            Seventieth Indiana, 101.
               
                  40 Before the war Cox had been a "member of a nice little
                        Serenade band" in 
                            Indianapolis
                        . See Charles H. Cox to Catharine Cox Lord, August 23, 1861, Cox Papers. Another
                        member of the Seventieth Indiana wrote that music filled many of the soldiers’
                        leisure hours and mentioned "Lieutenant Charley Cox, who wields the bow with great
                        skill. ... " Bode to 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, April 19, 1864.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Head Quarters Seventieth
                              Line of Battle near 
                                    Marietta
                                  Ga
                           
                                    June 20th 1864
                                
                        My Own dear Sister!
                        Having a leisure moment listen while I write—Truly we have been through
                                    exciting times since my last epistle to you. I shall mention Wednesday 15th of June for instance—one month previous to that date (May
                                    15) the 70th entered her first real battle at Resaca loosing 156 men41—other engagements we have been in since then suffering
                                    greatly—but the 15th inst—never was a body of men in such a
                                        hot place as was the invincible 70th on that terrible day. We
                                    had been lying in our line of works some 10 days keeping up lively skirmishing and
                                    petty engagements continually, but the inclement state of the weather caused our
                                    supplies not forthcoming, thereby giving us a greater taste of hunger than Hard-Tack
                                    and inclining us into a mood rather unpleasant than otherwise, also rendering an
                                    advance impossible as well as impracticable, but the morning of the 15th opened
                                    bright & beautiful and the whole of Shermans army pushed over their works
                                    onto the rebs who with but slight resistence skedaddled leaving one line of their
                                    works in our possession, still our army pushed forward in line of battle preceeded
                                    by a heavy skirmish line and a little after noon the 4th corps on left of the 20th
                                    became engaged and as our corps gradually swung around it also engaged the enemy
                                    from left to right by Brigades. At 4 PM our Brig—on extreme right of
                                    corps and the 70th on its extreme right—came up to the Johnnies driving
                                    their skirmishers into their breastworks and arriving at an open field 100 yrds
                                    wide—the double quick was taken up with a yell. Scarcely a man faltered
                                    and the 70th gallantly crossed the field firing as they went, entered the woods
                                    & pushed towards the rebel works over a troublesome abattis, but woe unto
                                    us, it was too hot a nest for Yankees at that time, for when within 200 yds of the
                                    rebel works two Batteries—8–12 pd guns—opened on
                                    us, making a further advance impossible as we had no support and
                                    not a dozen men would have been left to tell the tale had we continued the charge;
                                    but not a man flinched or turned his back to them, but sought such shelter as trees
                                    and the nature of the ground afforded and fought them behind their breastworks until
                                    9 P.M before we were releived—It is said 
                              
                                 41 The Seventieth Indiana had played an important part
                                            in Sherman's attack against Johnston at Resaca, 
                                                Georgia
                                            . Leading the assault on the enemy's right, the
                                            regiment captured the only pieces of artillery lost by the Confederates
                                            between 
                                                Chattanooga
                                             and 
                                                Atlanta
                                            . Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, II,
                                            646. Colonel Harrison, brigade commander, cited Cox in his official report
                                            of the engagement: "Lieut. C. H. Cox, acting adjutant, was
                                            conspicuous for his coolness and his efforts to rally the men." Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. XXXVIII, Part II, 372. For
                                            a fuller description of the Seventieth Indiana's participation at
                                            Resaca see Merrill, Seventieth Indiana,
                                        86–112.
                           
                                     no troops were ever known to stand under such
                                    artillery fire before, and our Generals give us great credit. For 3 hours 8 cannon
                                    flung shot, shell, grape & cannister at us and sad was the sight of the many
                                    killed & wounded around us. Several men had their heads shot off close to
                                    their shoulders, and men with arms and legs taken off was quite common. Oak trees
                                    several feet in thickness were cut square into immediately amongst us, and many
                                    trees we shattered into splinters from base to top—More than 50 shells
                                    exploded within 25 feet of me and I was almost deaf when the battle was
                                    over—Our regt expended 10000 rounds of ammunition in less than 3
                                    hours—I have visited the battle grounds of "Stone
                                    River" and "Chicamauga" neither of which exhibits near
                                    the "Scars of Battle" as does the battle ground of
                                    "Golgotha". The 70th lost 47 men and 3 com off in the engagement.
                                    A loss of 8 officers and 225 men in the 70th shows whether she has done any fighting
                                    since the opening of this campaign.42 My health never was better
                                    than now, and I am much pleased to learn you are in your new home. May the time soon
                                    come when I may visit you there.
                        The 70th has been in every fight of this campaign and while I write we are in line of
                                    battle not a stones throw from a rebel line—We lost 4 men in a small
                                    skirmish last night—The weather is quite fine today to cheer us up after
                                    soaking for 3 days and nights in the rain. I am still Act Adjt although Jim 
                                        Mitchell
                                     is back—but came before he was entirely well and is now
                                    unable for duty—Katie—do you remember Hi Hand a former Lieut
                                    in my Co—he is now a private in the 13th 
                                        New Jersey
                                     in 1st Div XX corps—I see him occasionally and think he is
                                    one [of] the meanest looking soldiers in the 20th A.C.43 Genls
                                    Thomas, Hooker & Howard just rode past our line—I have almost
                                    fell in love with "Old Joe"—
                        We have driven the rebels 90 miles and taken 6 lines of their works since May
                                    6th—The 4th of July is the time set apart for us to take 
                                        Atlanta
                                    —I have great confidence in our success. But my paper is out
                                    and close I must—Write often to me. Is Will Elliott in 100 days 
                              
                                 42 After almost two weeks of skirmishing around
                                                    
                                    Dallas, Georgia
                                 , Johnston on June 4, 1864,
                                            positioned his troops on Lost, Pine, Brush, and eventually Kenesaw
                                            mountains. Although it is the disastrous general assault of June 27 with
                                            which the name Kenesaw Mountain is generally associated, a number of battles
                                            occurred in the area during the month of June. Included were Pine Mountain,
                                            Gilgal Church, Golgotha, and Mud Creek. Cox suggests that the battle at
                                            Golgotha occurred on June 15, 1864; other sources place it on June 16.
                                            Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 452–53. For
                                            descriptions of the Seventieth Indiana's participation in these
                                            engagements see Merrill, Seventieth Indiana,
                                            124–33.
                              
                                 43 Hiram H. Hand was mustered into the Seventieth
                                            Indiana as first lieutenant of Company E on August 6, 1862; he resigned on
                                            November 9, 1862. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General,
                                            II, 643. According to the 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            
                                            Daily State Sentinel, August 18, 1864, Hand was later
                                            wounded in actions before 
                                                Atlanta
                                            .
                           
                                    
                                    
                              HIRAM H. HAND, COX’ FRIEND. (NOTE
                                                UNIQUE SIGNATURE)
                           
                                     service44—Much
                                    love to you Katie dear—
                        
                                    Affecty
                                    Charlie
                                
                        Excuse writing, dirty paper & pencil, as paper is scarce and I am
                                    writing on my knee. Our corps is on left of Kinesaw Mts
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              H.Q. 70th Ind. V. I.
                              Chattahoochee River, 
                                    Georgia
                                 
                              
                           
                                    July 10th 1864—
                                
                        My darling Sister!
                        At noon to day a mail arrived and yours of June 28th was the only missive which fell
                                    to my lot. A very welcome letter it was and had I been the recipient of more than
                                    one document, the writers would not have been so fortunate as you, in so prompt a
                                    reply being sent. The slight warmth of the weather, down here in the
                                    Confed'cy makes the merest duty a hard task and if we can manage to prevent
                                    the operation of roasting being performed upon us or keep our
                                    carcass from "scyugling" into "Soap grease",45 fortunate beings we are, and the frowns of "old
                                    Sol" will be welcome still during our sojourn in the Sunny South.
                        Katie I was truly pleased with your letter—as always,—and also
                                    that you are prospering so well in housekeeping affairs. You must have a pleasant
                                    little home on the river side and I know of nothing that would please me better than
                                    a trip up into the civilized world to spend a few days with you. Does Mr and Mrs
                                    President Lord reside near you, on the R.R. and do the trains pull up at your
                                        door—46
                        
                        I recd a letter from Ma yesterday telling me of her trip to the residence of F. B.
                                    Lord; Esq. and she gave me quite a good account of your management and taste as a
                                    housekeeper—If it were not for Ma & your little self, I would be
                                    dumb as a mule (excuse comparison) about home affairs—I have written
                                    Father and Frank several times without response and I have concluded they are
                                    "played out" on the letter question—and shall hereafter
                                    rely on you females for Northern information.—
                        Occasionally I hear from "the girl I left behind" and mighty welcome 
                              
                                 44 No record has been found to indicate that Will
                                            Elliott joined one of the one hundred days regiments.
                              
                                 45 "Skyugle" was a strange word
                                            which originated with the Union soldiers during the Civil War. It had not
                                            only a variety hut a contrariety of meanings. Sir William A. Craigie and
                                            James R. Hulbert, eds., Dictionary of American English on
                                                Historical Principles (4 vols., 
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1944), IV, 2137. Cox uses the word twice in this letter with
                                            apparently different meanings each time.
                              
                                 46 Katie's brother-in-law, H. C. Lord, was
                                            president of the 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             to 
                                                Cincinnati
                                             Railroad. Frank B. Lord, Katie's husband, was also
                                            associated with the railroad. Clipping from the 
                                                Cincinnati
                                            
                                            Post, May 27, 1931, Cox Papers.
                           
                                     her letters are, full of news and nonsence,
                                    mixed with a little love, of course I have to return the
                                    compliment and we keep up a lively correspondence.
                        The 3d inst the Johnnies becoming aware Mr Sherman had played one of his pretty flank
                                    movements on them—packed up traps at daylight and
                                    "scyugled" from their works at Kinesaw Mt. and in and around 
                                        Marietta
                                    —Scarce had they turned their backs upon and retreated from
                                    their splendid lines of works than us Yankees were at their heels—At 9
                                    o'clk A.M. our Brig ran into a battery (1/2 mile from [M]arietta) which was
                                    covering their retreat, and the [way?] the shells "came for
                                    us" is unpleasant even to think about—We hugged the ground with
                                    all the grace of a pig for over an hour until Smith's Bat of our Div
                                    silenced mr Rebs guns with a few solid shot from their rifled guns—We
                                    "tagged" after the rebs some 8 miles, taking prisoners and
                                    deserters to the tune of 8000. The gallant (as the papers say) 70th took 68
                                    "in out of the wet"—and about sunset we found the enemy
                                    halted behind a splendid line of works previously prepared by "Mr
                                    Nigger" for their reception—and bidding defiance to Yankee
                                    invasion—Not anxious to get hurt so near 4th of July we concluded to let
                                    them "sweat" and threw up before us a line of works for protection
                                    while we celebrated on the morrow our national anniversary—47
                        
                        At daylight on the 4th we were awakened to find our line of battle confronting with
                                    the enemy's at a stones throw distance, and the entire morning was spent by
                                    us lying in the trenches listening to the patriotic music of the 7 Brass Bands of 3d
                                    Div—which must have fell heavy on the ears of the rebs and made their
                                    "dander rise" as "Yankee doodle", "Hail 
                                        Columbia
                                    " &c. &c. was discoursed by our timid
                                    "blowers"—
                        But "there is no rest for the wicked" and Hookers Corps was
                                    appointed to flank the enemy from their works and after a hard afternoons work in
                                    marching, making feints, throwing up works &c on the next morning we found
                                    the enemy had again evacuated their works and shoved out towards the Chattahoochee.
                                    Another tramp after them, with many prisoners we pushed them to the
                                    river—and now they are across—feeling rather bold, and not
                                    afraid to unmask their artillery and give us an occasional shot, they have
                                    confidence in the river as a protection against assault, which they so
                                    dread—Our skirmish line occupies the bank of the river, while our line of
                                    battle 
                              
                                 47 After Sherman's efforts to take Kenesaw
                                            Mountain failed, he again attempted a strategic envelopment of the
                                            Confederate forces. Johnston withdrew his troops to Smyrna, 
                                                Georgia
                                            , between July 2–4, 1864, with Sherman's
                                            army following. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 141, 453.
                                            For further accounts of these moves see Merrill, Seventieth
                                                Indiana, 132–37. Cox probably refers to the First
                                            Michigan Light Artillery, Battery I, Captain Luther R. Smith of the Third
                                            Division commanding. Official Records, Ser. I, Vol.
                                            XXXVIII, Part I, 100.
                           
                                     is a mile behind—Our Regt is to day
                                    at the river supperting the skirmish line of our division and is 3/4 of a mile in
                                    advance of the line of battle—
                                        Atlanta
                                     being on higher ground the city is plainly in view from our position,
                                    and with our Hd Qr glass we can count the panes in the windows—We expect
                                    soon to have possession of 
                                        Atlanta
                                    , when I hope the campaign will close to give us a little rest, and wait
                                    until the hot weather is over—I understand Schofields corps is over the
                                    river on our right and it would [not] be at all strange if "Uncle
                                    Joe's" crowd was over before I have an opportunity of mailing
                                        this—48
                        
                        A portion of our Brig were the first Yankees into 
                                        Marietta
                                     and two of our companies drove 1200 rebel cavalry from the
                                    place—Many were the pretty little countenances peeping from behind the
                                    blinds and doors at the first live Yankees they had seen. Some were bold enough to
                                    greet us with facinating smiles (when they were aware from observation that we were
                                    not adorned with "horns and claws" as they had been informed and
                                    thought true—) when not 5 minutes before tears were shed in profusion at
                                    the departure of the Johnny Cavalry—49
                        
                        Camp Rumor says Hookers Corps is soon to be transfered to the Potomac Army, if
                                    Johnson attempts to reenforce Lee—From appearances I am inclined to think
                                    there is some foundation in the report. I am not anxious for the change, and think
                                    as much of Sherman as Grant. Should we go and pass through Cint'i on the
                                    route, I must see "You’ alls" at the depots—
                        As soon as hostilities cease for a time it is my intention to make a desperate effort
                                    for a leave of absence—Our boys are anxious to make home in the fall and
                                    carry the 
                                        Lincoln
                                     & Co tickets—Soldiers are one and all for Abe—he is their choice and feel that his reelection
                                    will be a death blow to Copper heads and cause a speedy termination of the
                                    war—Whilst the election of 
                                        Fremont
                                     or even McClellan will be the approval of a 4 years continuance of
                                    war—followed by ruination of our Gov't. Try persuade Frank (if
                                    he is not already a Lincolnite) to vote and work for H.O. Abe—All good
                                    Union men will not pursue any other course—I am confident Father will
                                    look to the good of his country.50
                        
                        
                           
                              48 On July 4–5, 1864, Johnston withdrew from
                                        Smyrna to his bridgehead on the Chattahoochee River. On July 8 a portion of
                                        Sherman's army crossed the river despite limited Confederate
                                        resistance, and on the night of July 9 Johnston abandoned his bridgehead.
                                        Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 141. Major General John M.
                                        Schofield commanded the Twenty-Third Army Corps, Army of the 
                                            Ohio
                                        . Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. XXXVIII, Part I,
                                        111.
                           
                              49 The engagements at 
                                 Marietta, Georgia
                              , are associated with battles at Kenesaw Mountain.
                                        Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 453.
                           
                              50 In the presidential campaign of 1864 Republicans
                                        renominated Abraham 
                                            Lincoln
                                        , and the Democratic candidate was George B. McClellan. A radical
                                        wing of the Republican party nominated John C. Fremont. Indiana's
                                        constitution prevented troops from voting in the field; hence, Cox and other
                                        Hoosier soldiers 
                        
                        
                        But dear Sister let me finish with what I have already said and if any news worth
                                    communicating reaches me I will write soon again—
                        My health continues very good. Write soon to me and excuse dullness &
                                    chiography—Remember me to Frank and tell him to open his heart and play
                                    the "Sanitary" by sending me by mail 1/2 lb good
                                        Smoking tobacco—It cannot be had here for love or
                                    money—Let him direct it to "Sergt A. F. Schley, Co
                                    "E" 70th Ind Vols" and it will save near 50 cts
                                        postage—51
                        
                        Remember me to all the Lords and enquiring friends—I remain with much love
                        
                                    Your affect brother—
                                    Charlie—
                                
                        I am Act Adjutant of the Regt. and will soon be commissioned 1st Lt Co
                                    "E"
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              H. Q. 70th Ind V. I.
                              Chattahoochee River—
                           
                                    July 13th 1864
                                
                        Dear Frank!
                        Only a word as I have no time, no news, no paper or no nothing wherewith to compose a
                                    letter.
                        I have been recommended to Gov of Ind for promotion to 1st Lt of my Co to date from
                                    May 30th 1864 (date of Lt Colestocks death) and will be commissioned as such I
                                    suppose—Several Officers of this Regt who have been recommended for
                                    promotion 2 & 3 months ago—are still awaiting their commissions,
                                    caused I suppose by Adjt Genl Noble being overrun with business—52
                        
                        Will you please on your first trip to Ind'polis [c]all at the Executive
                                    Dep't and get my Commish [an]d forward it to me or have
                                    them do it at [on]ce—I am anxious to receive it and be mustered 1st: To
                                    "Soar above" the multitude of common [2]nd Lts to be found in the
                                    army—2nd: The "bigger" the Shoulder strap the better an
                                    Officer 
                              hoped to be furloughed home in order to vote. Despite the efforts of
                                            Governor Morton, however, the Indiana regiments were not allowed to leave
                                            the front. Stampp, Indiana Politics, 224–25,
                                            235, 251–52. The terms copperhead and butternut were generally
                                            used during the Civil War to describe an opponent of the Union effort. More
                                            precise definitions vary greatly depending on the source.
                              
                                 51 The 
                                                United States
                                             Sanitary Commission and the Indiana Sanitary Commission were
                                            established to supply the soldiers’ needs and care for the sick
                                            and wounded. Members distributed clothing, sanitary stores, and other
                                            supplies; wrote letters for wounded soldiers; saw to the burial of the dead;
                                            etc. See ibid., 123–27. Sanitary fairs were
                                            frequently held throughout the country to raise money for these purposes.
                                            Allan [Allen] F. Schley of 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             served as corporal, sergeant, and second lieutenant of Company
                                            E, Seventieth Indiana. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant
                                            General, II, 642; VI, 126.
                              
                                 52 Cox was commissioned first lieutenant of Company E
                                            on July 1, 1864, but was not mustered into this position until September 1,
                                            1864. Lazarus Noble served as adjutant general of Indiana from May, 1861, to
                                            November, 1864. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General,
                                            II, 643, x.
                              
                           
                                     fares and thirdly it is due me and the
                                    influence of it will make my still higher promotion more easily gained—My
                                    health is tip top—Weather wonderfully warm—and campaigning
                                    most played. We are in sight of 
                                        Atlanta
                                     and can see the people on the streets with our glasses—The
                                    city will be in possession of Sherman in less than a week I think.
                        I wrote Katie the 10th inst Will write you the signs if we take 
                                        Atlanta
                                    —The latest 
                                        Atlanta
                                     papers are at hand—They give gloomy accounts of the
                                    condition of the city—Many inhabitants have concluded to remain and be
                                    subjected to Yankee rule, with full confidence (so the editor says) the city will
                                    soon be wrested again from our infamous hordes. "I cant see it" in
                                    that light and what Mr Sherman takes he generally freezes
                                    to—Roswell Cotton factory was taken by our forces the other
                                    days—and with it 700 girls who were working in it—The girls
                                    were some what alarmed at first, but were soon pacified and seemed pleased at being
                                    transfered for the Confed'cy to Uncle Samuel—and said they
                                    beleived they liked the Yanks the best any how, as they wore the best clothes and
                                    were the best looking men—A dance was proposed by some of the boys, and
                                    agreed upon by the girls—who went to work and cleaned out and scrubbed
                                    the floor of the largest room—some of our army fiddlers
                                    were engaged—the dance commenced and all "was merry as a
                                    marriage bell"—when Mr Sherman put a finis to their fun by
                                    detatching a squad with a pocket full of matches and soon the buildings were no
                                    more. The factories were worth over $1,000,000, and the British ... over
                                    them—The girls were sent ... to be shipped north I suppose ... mostly are
                                    destitute of hom[e] ... some lately arrived from 
                                        England
                                    —53 Some one proposed that they be issued
                                    to Officers on "Special Requisitions," certifying they are for
                                    their own use—
                        Let me hear from you occasionally My love to [K] atie
                        
                                    As ever
                                    Charlie.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              H. Q. 70th Ind V. I.
                              In the Trenches—Near 
                                    Atlanta
                                 
                              
                           
                                    July 23d 1864
                                
                        My dear Sister!
                        
                           
                              53 Roswell King, founder of Roswell, 
                                            Georgia
                                        , opened cotton factories in the town in 1837 or 1839.
                                        Sherman's army destroyed these factories and also the Ivy Mill which
                                        was established in 1858 for the manufacture of woolen cloth and which was known
                                        during the war for its "Roswell Gray." A sign near the town
                                        states that women working in the mills were sent north to insure that their
                                        skills would not be of further aid to the South. Federal Writers’
                                        Guide, Works Projects Administration, 
                                 
                                                Georgia
                                            : A Guide to Its Towns and Countryside (rev. ed., 
                                            Atlanta
                                        , 1940), 265–66. Ellipses in this letter indicate
                                        omissions made necessary because one corner of the manuscript was torn away and
                                        missing.
                        
                        
                        Yours of 10 days ago made its welcome appearance on evening of 21st inst * * * Since
                                    my last to you we have fought the battle of this campaign and
                                    given the enemy the soundest thrashing they have yet had. It was a fair fight,
                                    neither side have breastworks and lasting 5 hours—Our Division fought in
                                    a large open field and have been complimented by the comdg officers as
                                    "saving the day"—A terrible slaughted of
                                    rebels—800 were buried on the field where the 20th corps was engaged and
                                    3 times that number wounded—Our hospitals contained twice as many rebel
                                    wounded as of our men—The 3d Div lost 500 killed and
                                    wounded—The 70ths loss was 1 officer and 4 men killed—2
                                    officers, 26 men wounded—Total 33—Increasing causalties in the
                                    Regt to over 285 since the campaign—The regiment was in the hottest part
                                    of the fight and where it was, I was also—I shall give you no particulars
                                    for should I once commence 10 pages would not contain what I would like to
                                    say—Refer to Cin Commercial for information—It was a
                                    "big thing"—My captures are one Captain's
                                    sword marked C.S.A. Reb canteen, (cedar) haversack &c—We held the
                                    battle field and captured over 1000 prisoners and most all their
                                        wounded—54
                        
                        It was only 3 miles from atlanta and the enemy being flanked by McPherson (who by the
                                    way was killed yesterday)55 yesterday morning they fell back
                                    into their 
                                        Atlanta
                                     works where they now are. Our army is again confronting them only 11/2
                                    miles from the city. Their works cannot be taken by assault and I have reason to
                                    suppose Sherman will administer one of his flank movements on them and have
                                    possession of the city before this reaches you—
                        Our guns can shell the city at their leisure, having fine range—A Battery
                                    of Parrot Guns,56 of our Div has range of the main street and
                                    have been tempted to sent a little visitor down the street, orders 
                              
                                 54 The Battle of Peach Tree Creek, a part of the 
                                                Atlanta
                                             campaign, occurred on July 20, 1864. Although it was considered
                                            a Union victory, both sides suffered severe casualties. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 625–27. In his history of
                                            the regiment the commander of the Seventieth Indiana at Peach Tree Creek
                                            describes Cox: "Acting Adjutant Cox, beautiful as a girl, brave as
                                            a lion, rushes ... to the hilltop, his form as he reaches the crest outlined
                                            against the sky, waves his hat exultantly, and beckons a command
                                            ‘Forward!’ for no voice could be heard in the
                                            uproar." For a complete description of the active part played by
                                            the Seventieth Indiana at Peach Tree Creek see Merrill, Seventieth Indiana, 139–59; quotation taken from p.
                                            142. According to the official records Cox captured one infantry sword and
                                            scabbard on July 20, 1864, at Peach Tree Creek. Official
                                                Records, Ser. I, Vol. XXXVIII, Part II, 22.
                              
                                 55 Major General James B. McPherson, commander of the
                                            Army of the 
                                                Tennessee
                                            , was killed in the campaign before 
                                                Atlanta
                                             on July 22, 1864. Boatner, Civil War
                                            Dictionary, 538.
                              
                                 56 Parrott guns, invented by R. P. Parrott, were
                                            rifled, muzzle loading cannon varying in size from three inch (ten pound
                                            shell) to ten inch (250 pound projectile). Considered more accurate and
                                            having over twice the range of smoothbores, the Parrotts were particularly
                                            effective in knocking down masonry fortifications. Ibid.,
                                            621.
                           
                                     forbid for the present—Non
                                    Combatants will receive timely notice when the shelling comes off—
                        While writing this, Artillery duelling is going on between the two
                                    lines—The enemy have a 32 pound battery bearing on our division and every
                                    5 minutes a shell bursts in uncomfortable proximity—
                        Capt Meredith is in the rear quite unwell he is also homesick and
                                    if he cannot procure a "Sick leave" will doubtless resign shortly
                                        * * * * Lt Col Sam Merrill commands the 70th and Harrison
                                    the Brig—I do not think as much of Harrison as I used
                                    to and Col Merrill I highly esteem—he is a good officer and a
                                    gentleman—he does not treat his inferiors like dogs as Harrison
                                    does—and he has some regards for a mans feelings.57 I
                                    still am Act Adjt—and do not know when I can return to my
                                    company—unless I am promoted "Chief in Command" of the
                                    same—My health is pretty good and I cannot complain—I have
                                    nothing very strange to write. My regards to Frank and the "folksus"
                        
                        With very much love I am as ever
                        
                                    Hastily but truly
                                    Your affect bro
                                    Charley—
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Head Quarters 70th
                              Ind V. I. In front of 
                                    Atlanta
                                 ,
                    Ga—
                           
                                    August 4th 1864
                                
                        My dear Sister!
                        Although not indebted to you a letter, neither anything worth communicating to
                                    dispose of—still according to custom I write to "keep the ball
                                    rolling" **** If possible Katie your epistles must be
                                    more frequent. Your letters are the most welcome amongst the few I have the honor to
                                    respond to, and the sight of a few more, is the best remedy I am aware of, for the
                                    blues *****
                        
                        We do not possess 
                                        Atlanta
                                     yet, nor in any place does our lines approach nearer than 2640 feet to
                                    the city. Our Brig occupies the nearest position to the city of any troops in our
                                    army—A 20 pound Parrot Gun in position near the 70th sends a shell in the
                                    city every 5 minutes, day and night—Not 5 min has been passed without a
                                    messenger being sent over to the Johnnies "to put in
                                    their pipe and smoke"—It has become so regular the boys have
                                    named it the "
                                        Atlanta
                                     Express"—
                        The 3d Div returned yesterday and rejoined our corps after an absence of a week
                                    holding the refused portion of the right flank of 
                              
                                 57 According to the regimental history Meredith was
                                            ill both before and during the Battle of Peach Tree Creek. Merrill, Seventieth Indiana, 141–42. The reason for the
                                            apparently sudden change in Cox’ attitude toward Harrison has not
                                            been determined.
                           
                                     our army—We were 4 miles South west
                                    of 
                                        Atlanta
                                     and 6 miles from our present position, which is nearly north of the
                                    city—
                        I wrote you since our battles along Peach Tree Creek—the papers doubtless
                                    have notified you of the fact that the 20th Corps had a hand in the muss and did
                                    some handsome shooting &c, &c.
                        Uncle Joe Hooker has left us—releived at his own request—never
                                    has the loss of a Comdr cast such a gloom over troops as now hang over the XX Corps
                                    and the rest of the army, at his departure—Brig Genl A. S. Williams
                                    assumes temporary command of the corps, until Mr 
                                        Lincoln
                                     assignee us a comd'r58
                        
                        While writing this Schofield on the right is attempting to force possession of the
                                    R.R. south of the city and from the distant sound of musketry and artillery he is
                                    having quite a battle—in the mean time our line is keeping up a lively
                                    firing to divert the enemys attention partially this way—as if we were to
                                    assault them here—
                        Genl McCooks, cavalry command met with quite a reverse some 30 miles down the
                                    river—He had some 3000 cavalry & a section of 18th Ind Bat with
                                    him—and was returning from a raid below 
                                        Atlanta
                                     some 50 miles—and had accomplished finely his
                                    mission—but capturing a large quantity of "John
                                    Barleycorn" his whole command got on a tight—and while in that
                                    condition were surrounded and his entire command except 800 were
                                    captured—The loss is very slight to the army as the cavalry of this army
                                    are almost entirely worthless—59
                        
                        Genl Stoneman with a large cavalry force, left several days to liberate the Union
                                    prisoners confined at Americus, 
                                        Macon
                                     &c in Southern 
                                        Georgia
                                    —No news from him yet60
                        
                        
                           
                              58 When President 
                                            Lincoln
                                         appointed General Howard to replace McPherson as commander of the
                                        Army of the 
                                            Tennessee
                                        , Hooker asked to be relieved of his command of the Twentieth Army
                                        Corps. He left the corps on July 28, 1864, and served the remainder of the war
                                        in the Northern Department. He was replaced, at least temporarily, by Brigadier
                                        General Alpheus Starkey Williams. Boatner, Civil War
                                        Dictionary, 409, 926–27.
                           
                              59 Having destroyed all other railroads leading into 
                                            Atlanta
                                        , Sherman believed that by wrecking the one leading south to 
                                            Macon
                                         he would force General John B. Hood, who had replaced Johnston, to
                                        evacuate 
                                            Atlanta
                                        . He thus ordered General George Stoneman and General Edward Moody
                                        McCook to converge their cavalry divisions on this railroad approximately forty
                                        miles south of 
                                            Atlanta
                                        . McCook destroyed track, rolling stock, and supplies on July 29,
                                        1864, but was surrounded by superior forces while returning to
                                        Sherman's army. According to some reports he lost 500 men, his pack
                                        train, two guns, and a large number of horses. No mention is made in
                                        McCook's official report of the capture or detrimental effects of any
                                        whiskey. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 801–802;
                                            Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. XXXVIII, Part II,
                                        762–64. The Eighteenth Indiana Battery was mustered into service in
                                        August, 1862, with Eli Lilly of 
                                            Crawfordsville
                                         as captain; in August, 1864, the battery was commanded by Moses M.
                                        Beck of 
                                            Greencastle
                                        . Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, III,
                                        431–32. According to the official records Lieutenant Martin J. Miller
                                        commanded the portion of the Eighteenth Battery which accompanied McCook. Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. XXXVIII, Part II,
                                        762–64.
                           
                              60 In addition to his orders for destroying the railroad
                                        to 
                                            Macon
                                         and joining McCook's forces, Stoneman requested and
                                        received permission to raid 
                                            Macon
                                         and liberate Union prisoners at Andersonville. Rather than
                                        following orders explicitly, Stoneman split his forces, sending part south
                                        toward McCook and taking the rest 
                        
                        
                        Wilders’ renowned "hatchet" Brigade is over the river,
                                    are scouring the country for secesh and pressing horses, find aboundance of both.61 A lot of the 17 Ind boys were over to see us to day, report
                                    the Brigade in fine trim, but enough Katie Write me often and see the rest does the
                                    same.
                        
                                    Affect
                                    Charles
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Did you tell Frank, to send me a few ounces of Smoking Tobacco, by
                                    mail—I shall look for it and ever remember the benefactor—62
                        
                        Capt Meredith has tendered his resignation on Surgeons certificate of Disability, it
                                    will doubtless be accepted and two weeks he will be home—May-be I will
                                    step in his boots as Capt—though the ranking Lt will hurt himself to
                                    procure the position It is immaterial to me whether I received the promotion or not
                                    though of course I am ambitious in the military line, during my
                                    sojourn in the army—and have no fears I will be cut out of the position
                                    should the vacancy occur—My Commish as First Lt has not
                                    reached me yet—ask Frank to please look to it his first trip to
                                        Ind'polis63
                        
                        The 70th anticipates a trip home this fall to give 
                                        Lincoln
                                     and Morton their support. There is only a few of us left after our
                                    severe losses, but those of us who are, will go for L and
                                    M—
                        We are looking for a chance to Veteranize this month—should the campaign
                                    close. If I veteranize "I cant see it" now, though I might be
                                    induced by patriotism to subscribe my name for another 3 years—
                        We are faring better in the eating line now than any time on the campaign
                                    **** Hard tack, ham, (Desd) potatoes, &
                                    dried apples, for breakfast: Corn cakes, beans, ham, bacon, crackers, coffee and
                                    pies for dinner: Mush, shortcake, ham, potatoes, dried peaches and tea for
                                    supper—Our Hd Qrs Mess have a fine cook, and keep a horse to carry our
                                    rations on a march in paniers******
                        Cuz Fitz is in good health and wishes to be remembered to you, 
                              toward Andersonville. His cavalry was thwarted by the Confederates at all
                                            points, and Stoneman with approximately 700 men was captured. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 800–801.
                              
                                 61 The brigade commanded by Colonel John T. Wilder of
                                            the Seventeenth Indiana Volunteer Infantry Regiment was nicknamed the
                                            "Hatchet Brigade." Wilder's forces were mounted
                                            and armed with 
                                                Spencer
                                             repeating rifles. They participated in innumerable major
                                            battles and skirmishes from 1861–1865. Ibid.,
                                            919; Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, III,
                                            145–57.
                              
                                 62 Since the initial page or pages of this letter are
                                            missing, it has been impossible to determine exactly when it was written.
                                            Internal evidence suggests that it was sent to Katie some time between
                                            August 4 and August 19, 1864.
                              
                                 63 Meredith resigned on August 12, 1864. Cox was not
                                            mustered as first lieutenant of Company E until September 1, 1864. Governor
                                            Morton, however, commissioned him as captain of the company on August 13,
                                            1864, but he was never mustered into this position. For an explanation of
                                            his failure to be mustered as captain see footnote 74. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, II, 642.
                           
                                     he often receives letters from cousin Mattie
                                    and splendid letters they are. Jenk rode over to 17th corps the other day and met a
                                    cousin of ours, his name is "Capt Maxson" 12th
                                    Vols. I would have gone to see him but the 17th A.C. is 4 miles off and I have not
                                    had the time—he has my address and said he would call over to the 70th
                                        soon—64
                        
                        The past 30 hours a detail has been building a new line of works several hundred
                                    yards in advance, which the 70th will occupy in less than half an hour—
                        A hill on left of our Brigade overlooks 
                                        Atlanta
                                     at a distance of 2 miles—every street & house can be
                                    seen and a battery in position on the hill has battered a good many windows
                                    out—
                        But Katie, I must stop—with much love for you and Frank and my best to all the pretty girls in your neighborhood, I subscribe
                                    myself—in fine health—
                        
                                    Your affect brother
                                    Charley
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Central House, 
                                    Chattanooga
                                 , T.
                           
                                    Aug 19th—64, 9 P.M.
                                
                        My dearest Sister!
                        I have just finished a letter home, only one inch of candle left and I will write you
                                    until it expires.
                        Came up here and to 
                                        Bridgeport
                                     Ala on business for the regt, have been here a week, a few more days
                                    and I return * * * *
                        I was in Dalton when Wheeler took the place and destroyed the
                                    railroad I made a lucky escape from Libby and arrived in 
                                        Chattanooga
                                     all O.K.65 Near a week the road has been cut,
                                    trains have commenced running again and all the rolling stock is in use transporting
                                    forage to the front I am obliged to remain here in company with several Adjt XX
                                    Corps until we can get a car to take our desks, records &c to the regiment
                                    which we came after *********
                        
                        I wrote Miss Bright immediately after receipt of your last, written at home &
                                    mailed 
                                        Boston
                                    . Her letter to me had been recd several months and I kept waiting for a
                                    good chance to answer. You say she is said to [be] handsome, thats
                                    all O.K. verily, she writes a neat letter 
                              
                                 64 Captain Orrin F. Maxson of Prescott, 
                                                Wisconsin
                                            , served with Company A, Twelfth. Wisconsin Infantry, from
                                            October 9, 1861, until his resignation, September 18, 1864. 
                                                Wisconsin
                                            , Adjutant General's Office, Roster of
                                                Wisconsin Volunteers, War of The Rebellion, 1861–1865 (2
                                            vols., 
                                                Madison
                                            , 1886), I, 704.
                              
                                 65 Confederate General Joseph Wheeler's
                                            cavalry approached Dalton, 
                                                Georgia
                                            , on August 14, 1864, and demanded its surrender. Union Colonel
                                            Bernard Laiboldt refused and successfully defended the city against two
                                            attacks. Libby Prison, located in 
                                    Richmond, Virginia
                                 , was perhaps the most notorious southern
                                            prison after Andersonville. Only officers were held there. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 221, 482.
                           
                                     and a most beautiful hand—I should
                                    be pleased to cultivate the limited acquaintence—I hope, we hoosiers will
                                    be taken home to vote in the fall, it would be a splendid treat to us and also save
                                    Indiana from the hands of those detestable copperheads. Maybe you think I talk large
                                    for a man of my age, although not a legal voter, can help Mr Morton hugely if I were
                                    home, the 70th Ind is unanimous for Oliver P.
                        
                        I hope Katie you are having a gay time away down in 
                                        Maine
                                    ,66 how I should like to visit a civilized country
                                    again and try to be a citizen I have another year to serve my country when I will
                                    talk to them about any more soldiering for me—
                        Capt Meredith has resigned and gone home, I expect to step into his boots.
                        My health continues No 1 and the campaign has not hurt me much, though I wish it
                                    would end, and a little rest be given us
                        Over 100 days we have been fighting, and I think too much of a good thing a bore
                        
                        Sherman will doubtless winter his army north of the Chattahoochee. 
                                        Atlanta
                                     is a hard row of stumps for him, though he could take it at an immense
                                    sacrifice—
                        Much love to you Katie My candle is flickering Regards to Francis
                        
                                    Truly
                                    Charley
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              70th Ind Vol Infantry
                              Chattahoochee River,
                           
                                    Aug 30th/64
                                
                        Three letters from you have been staring me in the face for some days and not 24
                                    hours ago another missive from Saco made its appearance. I am not
                                    guilty of wilful neglect, as never have I been more busy than since my return from a
                                    dozen days sojourn at 
                                        Chattanooga
                                    , Lookout Mountain, etc I had quite a lively time while gone, by the way
                                    I sent you by last mail an ambrotype taken on—Point
                                    Lookout—2400 feet above the sea. You will no doubt recognize Major Al
                                    Morely as one of the crowd, the Adjutant of 129 Ills the second and a young man
                                    about my size the "last but not least"67
                        
                        Katie! I suppose this will find you again enjoying the comforts of your pleasant
                                    little home on banks of the 
                                        Ohio
                                    —Would that I could 
                              
                                 66 Catharine Lord frequently visited relatives and
                                            vacationed in New 
                                                England
                                            . See Sylvester, "Civil War Letters of Charles Harding
                                            Cox," 31, 63, 64.
                              
                                 67 Katie was apparently visiting at Saco, 
                                                Maine
                                            , on the Atlantic Ocean. Albert J. Morley of 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             was commissioned major of the Fourth Cavalry, Seventy-Seventh
                                            Regiment Indiana Volunteers on June 24, 1864, but was never mustered into
                                            this position. Morley was mustered out of service with his regiment in June,
                                            1865, as captain of Company A. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant
                                                General, III, 12, 13.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              Cox (CENTER) ON TOP
                                            OF LOOKOUT MOUNTAIN, WITH MAJOR ALBERT J. MORLEY
                                            AND
                                            THE ADJUTANT
                                            OF
                                            THE 129TH ILLINOIS.
                           
                                     enjoy the pleasure of a short visit from the
                                    excitements of the field at your home—I am not dubious but the 70th will
                                    be home to vote, our prospects are flattering, and if any soldiers return you may
                                    count upon the Seventieth =
                        Think of it! the 20 corps in the rear, we are on the Chattahoochee guarding, bridges,
                                    stores etc, our Brigade lies on North side of river 6 miles from 
                                        Atlanta
                                    , and have what the boys call a soft thing of
                                    it—
                        Strange our corps should be left behind, when we have lost only 8000
                                    men—and seen more fighting than any other Corps—, in the
                                    campaign
                        The remainded of our army has moved around and threatening 
                                        Atlanta
                                     from the south. A great battle is impending, and it necessarily be a
                                    terrible one. We will not be engaged. Maj Genl Slocum now has command of our Corps,
                                    a good man I think, but I am in love with old Jo Hooker—68
                        
                        "The country is in a dreadful state", a terrible state of affairs
                                    at our old home. Exterminate all copperheads if a million die, how I detest
                                    them—Every one has read and thought how bold the butternuts are getting.
                                    If I had my wish it would be that every traitor in the north be confined in such an
                                    infernal place, that hell would be a heaven to it=69
                        
                        Often I hear from Ma, get all the news from her and of course her letters like yours
                                    are doubly welcome. I have my commission as First Lieut and I have no doubt in less
                                    than many weeks that another still higher will reach me—I am writing this
                                    at 6 A.M. and have an immense amount of writing to do to day, making Muster
                                    & pay Rolls. The Regt has not been paid for 8 months—though your
                                    humble serv't has—Paymasters and Money are
                                    waiting at 
                                        Louisville
                                    , & 
                                        Nashville
                                     for the campaign to close, to come down & pay
                                    off—
                        
                           
                              68 Major General Henry Warner Slocum succeeded General
                                        Williams as commander of the Twentieth Army Corps from August 27-November 11,
                                        1864. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 765.
                           
                              69 Agitation over alleged treasonous copperhead activity
                                        increased in Indiana during the late summer and early fall of 1864. Harrison H.
                                        Dodd, Grand Commander of the Indiana Sons of Liberty, concocted a scheme to free
                                        rebel prisoners held in 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , seize the arsenal in the capital city, and raise a general
                                        insurrection on August 16, 1864. Dodd's ultimate objective was
                                        apparently the formation of a Northwestern Confederacy. Horrified Democratic
                                        leaders forced Dodd to abandon his plot. Through various spies planted in the
                                        Sons of Liberty Governor Morton knew of the "great
                                        conspiracy." On August 20 military authorities raided Dodd's
                                        printing establishment in 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         and confiscated a large amount of ammunition and revolvers, private
                                        correspondence, and material concerning the Sons of Liberty, including an
                                        alleged membership list which contained the names of several prominent
                                        Democratic candidates for state offices. Morton and the Republicans effectively
                                        used these examples of Democratic "treason" in the 1864
                                        election campaign. These events, Dodd's arrest, and the arrest of
                                        several other members of the Sons of Liberty culminated in the famous Indiana
                                        treason trials in October and November, 1864. Stampp, Indiana
                                            Politics, 241–47. Hoosiers were shocked at the revelation of
                                        such activities, and Cox had undoubtedly read or heard about the agitation at
                                        home.
                        
                        
                        Being camped on the Chattahoochee, the boys have a big time, bathing and
                                    fishing—Occasionally a man is drowned—and every person talks
                                    about it, if he had been shot on the skirmish line or in battle no one would think
                                    of it—such a common occurrence
                        My health quite good—though T should be pleased to visit the sea shore, "for my health" if there is such pleasures
                                    there—But enough Katie—Will be tired almost to death writing
                                    today—
                        
                                    Affectionately, Your brother
                                    Charley
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              H. Q. Co. "E" Seventieth Indiana
                              Chattahoochee River.
                           
                                    Oct 24th 1864.
                                
                        My darling Sister!
                        Only two mails have arrived safely this far south since the retrograde movement of
                                    the two armies. The rebs have held our line of communication, hence my long silence.
                                    I have sent an occasional word home, doubting its chances of getting through. But
                                    now as Shermen has again defeated Old Beauregard or Hood—and the
                                    railroads clear of rebels, our connection with the civilized world has again been
                                        established.70 Mails will probably arrive and depart
                                    regularly again, and the amount of rations issued us strengthened—for I
                                    am sure the XX A.C. would have gone up the spout in a few weeks
                                    more, if the road had not been opened and "fotched us
                                    grub"—
                        Your letter of the—came happily received, and contents noted. My business
                                    and the uncertainty of the mails, prevented an immediate answer—
                        It has been a gloomy disappointment to us, at not going home to vote. We thought
                                    surely we would make the trip, our plans were devised for spending the
                                    vacation—and an extraordinary time was anticipated.
                        Indiana boys feel bad over it, and will have another "crow to pick"
                                    with the rebels for severing our com[mu]nications and preventing our going.
                        The first news of the elections, State and Sanitary Fairs reached us but 48 hours
                                    ago. For ten days we were kept in the dark, grapevine dispatches were not very
                                    flattering, and we almost feared the "butternuts" had gained the
                                    day.
                        But the news came at last, hats flew in the air as if by magic, 
                              
                                 70 General Hood evacuated 
                                                Atlanta
                                             on September 1, 1864, and the Twentieth Army Corps took
                                            possession the next morning. The armies’ positions were then
                                            reversed, Sherman holding 
                                                Atlanta
                                            , and Hood executing a series of unsuccessful attacks to cut the
                                            Union Army's lines of communication and supply and to force
                                            evacuation of the city. General Pierre G. T. Beauregard was second in
                                            command to Johnston in the forthcoming Carolinas campaign and may also have
                                            been at 
                                                Atlanta
                                            . Boatner, Civil War Dictionary,
                                            33–34, 54–55.
                           
                                     and the tremendous cheers of our boys produced
                                    echo after echo in the Chattahoochee Valley—
                        The news is glorious from home and our soldiers rejoice and are inspired anew with
                                    hopes of complete success—Elect Father Abraham and if the Confederacy
                                    does not at once play out, we will contract to battle them until
                                    extermination of ever southern sinner in arms.71
                        
                        You spent several days at the [Sanitary] Fairs I suppose. I was very anxious to be
                                    there, but until Married Officers are tired of going home, I see no chance. Two
                                    Cols, three Capts, three Lieuts, and one Adjt of the 70th are now home "on
                                    Leave". My time may soon come and I hope to be home
                                    between now and the expiration of our term of service. In nine months the regiment
                                    will all be home to enter again civil life—
                        The 70th is now detached from the Brigade and is covering and holding an important
                                    ferry in Chattahoochee River from use of the rebels—We are out alone, 3
                                    miles from any troops and six miles from 
                                        Atlanta
                                    —We had a slight engagement with the enemy last week, lasting
                                    3 hours. Should they attack us in much force-our chances for a Southern prison would
                                    be good, as the 70th now numbers 300 effective men, out of 1000 that left
                                    Ind'polis & 150 Recruits—I have 71 men in my company,
                                    only 40 are present—
                        I am not Capt yet, though expect to be, or a citizen, before
                                    Christmas—
                        I have nothing strange to communicate today—Let me hear soon &
                                    often—
                        And with much love to you and Frank. I am as ever—
                        
                                    Your affect brother
                                    C.H.C.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Head Quarters 1st Brig, 3d Div, 20 A.C.
                              Near Savannah, Geo.
                           
                                    Dec 19th 1864!
                                
                        My dearest Sister!
                        A mammoth mail reached us a couple days ago and I was quite disappointed at no letter
                                    from you. Thirty days ago Sherman with his army left 
                                        Atlanta
                                    , swinging loose from all communication north and directing his course
                                    towards the coast.72
                                    
                                        Atlanta
                                     was left in ruins and all railroads, cotton and public property on our
                                    way destroyed. We marched near 300 miles and in 26 days landed in front 
                              
                                 71 In the Indiana state election on October 11, 1864,
                                            Morton and the Republican state ticket won by more than a 20,000 majority.
                                            Similar results occurred in Pennsylvania and 
                                                Ohio
                                            . National elections for president and vice president were not
                                            held until November 7, 1864, when 
                                                Lincoln
                                             was also elected overwhelmingly. Stampp, Indiana
                                                Politics, 253.
                              
                                 72 In November, 1864, Sherman cut loose from his base
                                            at 
                                                Atlanta
                                             and began his march to the sea. Boatner, Civil War
                                                Dictionary, 34.
                           
                                     of Savannah, which we now invest, as we found
                                    it strongly fortified and garrisoned by a host of soldiers and malitia men.
                        Since the 10th inst we have been extending and advancing outlines, and now have
                                    30,000 soldiers and 30,000 citizens penned up in the fair city of S. just as we had
                                    Hoods army in 
                                        Atlanta
                                    , although with no chance to escape. Yesterday a flag of Truce visited
                                    the enemy's lines from Sherman demanding the unconditional surrender of the
                                    city, which was respectfully declined by Hardee comd'g rebel forces. We can
                                    starve the place out in a few months but time is precious and we are momentarily
                                    looking for the order to carry the works by assault and take possession of the city.
                                    It will cause much bloodshed to us but such is the risk of a soldier and if they get
                                    hurt it is their ill luck.73
                        
                        A portion of our corps is across the river in 
                                        South Carolina
                                    . I have been on its sacred soil and had a view of Savannah from the S.
                                    C. bank of the river. The country is level and very swampy around the city, giving
                                    the enemy no natural advantage in ground, but the time they have had in preparing
                                    artificial advantages such as abbattis, tangles, and innumerable obstructions will
                                    make it a most difficult task to take their works and one that will take resolute
                                    determined men to perform. We are 3 miles from the city, the lines of the two armies
                                    confront each other at 3 or 4 hundred yards distance apart. A swamp is in front of
                                    our Brigade 300 yards in width, we occupy one bank and the Johnnies the other.
                                    Should we assault the works in our front the men will have to swing their cartridge
                                    boxes around their necks and wade through mud and water waist deep under fire of a
                                    battery of artillery and thousands of muskets, but we have done the like before and
                                    can do it again. The only way to stop the war is to fight it out.
                        The first of Nov I was detailed as Aid-de-camp on the Brigade Staff—Col F.
                                    C. Smith commanding, since then I have been announced as Provost Marshal of the
                                    Brigade an equal pleasant position. I have a couple horses and all the conveniences
                                    Hd Qrs can afford. I should like to remain on the Staff until my time expires if
                                    possible and have no notion to return to my company since a strange man commands the
                                    company by virtue of the consolidation of the 27th with the 70th. Capt Fesler is his
                                    name. I am not much acquainted with him as I left the co before he joined it. I have
                                    my commission as Captain in my pocket but it avails me but little under that 
                              
                                 73 Sherman's army reached Savannah around
                                            December 10, 1864. It was opposed by a limited and essentially ineffective
                                            force commanded by General William J. Hardee. When Savannah refused to
                                            surrender immediately, Sherman sent for siege guns; and around December 21,
                                            1864, Hardee evacuated the city. Ibid., 374, 512.
                           
                                     infernal consolidation—74Col Smith our comd'r. says he knows Frank. I have not
                                    time to give you a description of our march but beg refer you to the newspaper
                                    correspondents, who will write something interesting about Shermans big
                                        raid.
                        
                        We hear of Hood investing 
                                        Nashville
                                    , quite a different aspect in that Dept than when we were there.75 We are but a few miles from the coast I anticipate a ride
                                    over in a few days to take a look at the Ocean. Something new to your little
                                    brother.
                        The 12th was my birthday, 20 years old, getting quite aged.
                        Mails go and come via 
                                        New York City
                                    . Write soon and direct Hd Qrs 1st Brig, 3 Div 20 A.C, Left Wing, Army
                                    of 
                                        Georgia
                                    , Savannah, Ga.
                        My health is good, with much love to Frank and yourself I am affect brother
                        
                                    Charlie
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Fort Hardee, S. C.
                           
                                    Jan 6th 1865.
                                
                        My dear Sister!
                        Fortunate I am just to have recd from you a letter dated Nov 4th 1864. Truly dear
                                    Katie it was welcome indeed, being the first word from you for more than two months.
                                    Neither have I heard from Ma since 15th of same month, and my anxiety for news from
                                    those dear to me at home is growing to an unpleasant extent. I attach all blame to
                                    the P.O. Dep't and strange it seems to me that we have had nothing but old
                                    mail since arriving at Savannah, with such aboundant facilities for bringing mail
                                    and every thing else to the Army.
                        I beleive I wrote you from Savannah, of the pleasant time I was having and of the
                                    pretty girls in the family I was stopping with. But a sojourn of 10 days ended my
                                    fun and on New Years morning our Division crossed the river into 
                                        South Carolina
                                    , being the first troops of Shermans army in the hottest of the
                                    secession states.
                        We are now camped at Ft Hardee 8 miles from Savannah in Beaufort Co. Our army will
                                    cross into the State gradually leaving 
                              
                                 74 Colonel F#2 C. Smith commanded the First Brigade,
                                            Third Division, Twentieth Army Corps during Sherman's campaign
                                            through 
                                                Georgia
                                            . Ibid., 771. On November 4–5,
                                            1864, the veterans and remaining recruits of the Twenty-Seventh Indiana
                                            Volunteer Infantry Regiment were consolidated with the Seventieth Indiana by
                                            special order of the War Department. At that time Peter Fesler of Morgantown
                                            became captain of Company E. Although Cox had been commissioned captain of
                                            Company E on August 13, 1864, he was thus never mustered into that position.
                                            Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, II, 265, 642.
                              
                                 75 After his evacuation of 
                                                Atlanta
                                            , Hood planned an invasion of Tennessee in an attempt to draw
                                            Sherman northward. The Union general, however, refused to be deterred from
                                            his march to the sea and left General Thomas to defend against Hood at 
                                                Franklin
                                             and 
                                    Nashville,
                                                    Tennessee
                                 .
                                            Cox’ information that Hood had invested 
                                                Nashville
                                             was, however, incorrect. Boatner, Civil War
                                                Dictionary, 305–309.
                           
                                     force sufficient to protect Savannah and in a
                                    couple weeks, I think, Sherman will move through S. C. desolating the country as he
                                    goes, and striking for 
                                        Charleston
                                     and cities of importance. By spring I predict we will be cooperating
                                    with Grant against Lee, who will be compelled to evacuate 
                                        Richmond
                                     when we get into N.C. & cut off his communication &
                                        supplies.76
                        
                        The administration is determined to subdue the rebellion on the shortest notice and I
                                    think active campaigns will be the order of this year. Victories
                                    crown our arms at every point and our wise men predict this to be the closing year
                                    of the war.
                        The gloomy aspect in Tenn has changed and the rout of Hoods army is a grand item in
                                    the war.77 May our armies continue to be victorious and the 12th
                                    of August 1865 find us enjoying the pleasures of peace for in that day my connection
                                    with the U.S. Army ceases and I shall then throw off the brass and
                                        blue and take to civil life again, get married or live an old
                                    bachelor. The former is preferable and I want you to pick out for me a good looking
                                    intelligent girl to court on my return home, for I hardly think I know an unmarried
                                    lady in the north, so many have changed their names since my departure in the
                                    service.
                        It is a long seige between Geo and Alice. I could marry a dozen times in the time.
                        I am still on the Staff of 1st Brigade. Our Hd Qrs are in a commodious house owned by
                                    a man named Hardee who left with his family on the approach of us Vandals.78 It is raining without, but I am setting up to a nice large
                                    fire (not built on a/c of cold but to drive away dampness) in second story, writing
                                    on my knee, with half dozen old letters staring me in the face demanding I should
                                    answer them to day or be considered an unworthy correspondent.
                        I was out foraging yesterday with a detachment of 200 men from our Brig. We met the
                                    enemy on New River and skirmished more than an hour with them, coming out ahead. We found three fine piano's in a deserted house,
                                    had I transportation I surely would send 
                              
                                 76 After Sherman's march to the sea General
                                            Grant planned to have the combined armies of Sherman, General George G.
                                            Meade, and General Benjamin F. Butler converge to destroy Lee's
                                            Army of Northern 
                                                Virginia
                                            . To bring his forces into position to cooperate with Grant,
                                            Sherman about February 1, 1865, began his march through the Carolinas toward
                                                    
                                    Richmond, Virginia
                                 . Ibid., 123–24.
                              
                                 77 Hood's campaign into Tennessee ended with
                                            a decisive victory for Thomas’ Union Army at 
                                                Nashville
                                             on December 15, 1864. During the first two weeks of January,
                                            1865, Hood retreated with his shattered forces into 
                                                Mississippi
                                            . Ibid., 305–309.
                              
                                 78 According to various accounts in Merrill's
                                            history of the Seventieth Indiana, the plantation on which at least a
                                            portion of the regiment was encamped belonged to General William J. Hardee
                                            who had unsuccessfully defended Savannah. Merrill, Seventieth
                                                Indiana, 236–37. Cox’ letter, however,
                                            suggests a different owner.
                           
                                     you one. I have an arm load of Opera Music,
                                    which I am trying to send home for my ben[e]fit when I return.79
                        
                        My health continues very good. With love to F.B.L. and yourself.
                        
                                    I remain
                                    Affect brother
                                    Charley
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Pro Mar Office 1 Brig. 3d Div. 20 C.
                              Hardee Estate. S. C.
                           
                                    Jan 14/65
                                
                        My dearest Sister!
                        I have just heard from you and a kind welcome letter it was, dated Dec 26th 1864! a
                                    letter from Ma accompanied it and the two together after so long silence makes me
                                    feel as if I was not forgotten at home and turned the monotony of the field into
                                    bright hopes of the future.
                        I have no particular items to transmit and write only to acknowledge receipt of
                                    letters from America. "America" is a great word in the Army and
                                    when the boys of our army wish to speak of home or the North, America is invariably used.
                        Sect'y Stanton and other dignataries of the Capital, are in Savannah and
                                    have caused a little excitement amongst the soldiers who are anxious to see the big [w]igs. Stanton no doubt
                                    is here to see the sights and hold consultation with our General as to the best plan
                                    to take 
                                        Charleston
                                    , regain Sumpter & make an "on to 
                                        Richmond
                                    " from direction of the Equator.80
                                    Movements during 65 are to be unusually active, and we anticipate no rest during our
                                    term of service.
                        I have seen but few late northern papers and feel as though we were out of the world.
                                    I am anxious for the Ind'polis Journal to learn the general news from home,
                                    see who has married, died &c. &c. particularly to see the notice of
                                        my marriage as I understand from reliable source that I was to
                                    be home Christmas and cause a certain young Miss to change her name on that day.
                                    "I couldn't see it"—
                        I am pleased Katie, to hear of the enjoyment you have at your new home at South Side.
                                    Should my self like to visit you a few days 
                              
                                 79 Two additional documents in the Cox Papers are
                                            relevant to Cox’ story of the three pianos. In a letter dated
                                            only March 5, but filed with postwar correspondence, Mrs. William N. Heyward
                                            wrote Cox: "I am looking for your affidavit with great expectancy,
                                            and hope ere long you will be able to send it, for with it, and the
                                            testimony of my ex slaves, I hope to work wonders—" A
                                            mimeographed copy of the typewritten affidavit indicates that while on a
                                            foraging expedition near Hardeeville, 
                                                South Carolina
                                            , in 1865 Cox had entered a plantation home which contained
                                            three pianos.
                              
                                 80 According to an announcement from the War
                                            Department, Secretary of War Stanton had gone to Fortress 
                                                Monroe
                                            , Helton Head, and Savannah to consult with Generals Grant,
                                            Foster, and Sherman on matters including service, supplies, and exchange of
                                            prisoners; the organization of colored troops; raising the blockade of
                                            Savannah and opening the city to free trade; and the seizure of rebel
                                            property and products. 
                                                Cincinnati
                                            
                                            Daily Gazette, January 6, 1865.
                           
                                     and mingle in the fun, also attend a few
                                    meetings of the "Driftwood" provided all
                                    [it?]s members are not married folks, who are always a
                                    bore, Sister Katie excepted.
                        We also have a Club in the army, Confederates and Yankees compose it, we meet at
                                    irregular intervals. The meetings are quite noisy, and numerous missives (leaden)
                                    are exchanged amongst its Members. Many are the good hits made,
                                    and every gathering is enlivened or dampened by the joy, crying, laughing, moaning
                                    and excitement occasioned by said hits. We do not publish a paper but furnish items
                                    for persons that do. I have just written to Ma sending her photo of our big Cousin
                                    Surgeon Fitzgerald.
                        If you like, I will get a view of his "Mug" for you.
                        I have had two or three letters from Cousin Mattie at 
                                        Louisville
                                    , does she write you. She gets up the most interesting and kind letters
                                    of any one I know (you & Ma excepted) And I am almost ashamed to send my
                                    dull letters in answer to hers.
                        Are you ac[qu]ainted with Steve Sedam, I believe he lives near you. He was a class
                                    mate, once, of mine at the University at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    .81
                        
                        Remember me to the Elliotts when you see them, I have had no letter from Will since
                                    last summer.
                        I have just w[ri]tten to Mammy, I believe I write her two letters to your one.
                                    Letters recd are in same porportion.
                        Give my regards to Frank and the Lords in general. Kiss several
                                    good looking girls for your brother and write him occasionally if
                                    not oftner.
                        I am pretty well I thank you, hope your good health equals mine.
                        With aboundant love I am
                        
                                    Only brother
                                    Charley.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              1. [Brigade] 3. [Division] 20 [Army Corps]
                              Left wing army of Ga via N. Y.
                              Pro Mar Office, 1st Brig. 3d Div
                              20th A.C. Hardeeville, S. C.
                           
                                    January 24th, 1865.
                                
                        My dear Sister!
                        It is growing dark, giving me but a moment to tell you of receipt 
                              
                                 81 Cox was a student in the College Preparatory
                                            Department of North-Western Christian University (now 
                                                Butler
                                             University) during the session of 1858–1859 as was
                                            Steven Riker Sedam of 
                                    Cincinnati, Ohio
                                 . "Catalogue of the Officers and Students
                                            of the North-Western Christian University, for the Session of
                                            1858–59" (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1858), 7, 8.
                           
                                     of yours of 12th inst just arrived. Very glad
                                    dear sister to hear again from South Side. I beg pardon for abusing you to Ma in my
                                    letter, on a/c of your indifference—as I thought—in writing
                                    your big brother. Sorry for you at having sore eyes, disagreeable and troublesome,
                                    aint it? I have seen a great deal of it in the army amongst soldiers. It
                                    makes my eyes water to look [at] a person with sore eyes. Army
                                    Surgeons prescribe "sugar of lead" and "cold
                                    water", I would recommend in your case, to take a look at a little gold
                                    coin, if that does not help them, a few greenbacks or $300. dress, will
                                    be a sure remedy.
                        We have camped at Hardeeville one week, and may remain another before Sherman will be
                                    ready to move us on our Northward course.
                        Until today it has been storming since our entry to this place. We are camped on the
                                    only dry spot for miles around us. The country is one immense swamp "down
                                    here in the pocket", nasty wet and muddy at all seasons, and now the
                                    incessant rains have spread the Savannah [River] over the entire country here, and
                                    water bound we are. Our troops have been washed out a number of Camps and have
                                    sought higher ground. One poor Colonel of our command retired one
                                    night and after a sweet repose awoke at daylight with 10 inches of water in his
                                    tents, his boots bobbing around a la duck fashion and his horse was sent him to gain
                                    dry land. A boat was sent to releive a picket post who were surrounded during the
                                    night by the flood, and had sought safety in mounting a fence close by.
                        It was on this very place that General 
                                        Lincoln
                                     in 1778 remained 6 weeks by being hemmed in by water.82
                        
                        Hardeeville is only a small town, 80 miles from 
                                        Charleston
                                     & 20 from Savannah. The inhabitants all skedaddled on our
                                    approach, and those of us who are fortunate to be on Staff duty have nice large
                                    houses to live in during our sojourn here.
                        Frogs are innumerable and while I write the song of 10 million greet my ear, making
                                    such an eternal din we scarcely can hear ourselves talk. Are there any frogs down
                                    your way, if so, you know how agreeable their company and what charms their music
                                    has.
                        Henry Scott, Tom 
                                        Campbell
                                     any many officers have returned from America.83
                                    Scott is now sick, confined to his bed, nothing serious I think. They have stuffed
                                    my ears with wonderful reports of the gayety & prosperity of our Hoosier
                                    home and the north in 
                              
                                 82 For an account of Major General Benjamin 
                                                Lincoln
                                            's operations around Savannah, 
                                                Georgia
                                            , and in the Carolinas during the Revolutionary War see Mark
                                            Mayo Boatner, III, Encyclopedia of the American Revolution (
                                                New York
                                            , 1966), 1034–36.
                              
                                 83 Captain Henry M. Scott of 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             served in Company A of the Seventieth Indiana. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, II, 641.
                           
                                     general. Such news only increase my already
                                    immense desires to return home and join in the whirlpool of fun, before my hair is
                                    tinctured with grey, and my boyish gayety merge into the sobriety of manhood.
                        I have almost forgotten the art of dancing. Two years and a half in the service has
                                    made awkwardness again the master of me, and the grace I tried to aquire at home to
                                        handle my feet in a dance has abandoned me, and all I now know
                                    is forward, [ri]ghtabout, file
                                        [ri]ght, &c. Even that little
                                    military I am forgetting, since I have become a "hoss ossifer" and
                                    order my horse to go half a mile or so. I have two good horses, which I have kept in
                                    the best of order.
                        On entering the service I had more young lady correspondents than I had time to write
                                    to. All have joined themselves in holy matrimony and now "poor little
                                    me" have only my Mammy & sister to write to, and receive letters of
                                    love & friendship. It is enough to make a fellow contemplate suicide, having
                                    all the girls facing on him, and marry young men afraid of war. I will not commence
                                    another sheet but close promising to send a line soon again.
                        Regards to Frank, & much love to you, from brother
                        
                                    Charley
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Headquarters First Brigade &c
                              Robertville S. C.
                           
                                    February 1st 1865.
                                
                        My dear Katie:
                        I cannot let a mail depart to day without a letter to someone. As my last was to Ma
                                    this shall be to you, although nothing wonderful to relate you may be eager for news
                                    concerning your little brothers health & where'bouts.
                        Robertville, a county seat, and country town, forty miles in 
                                        South Carolina
                                     above Savannah. The principle feature of the place & what first
                                    meet's one's eye on entering the town is the "town
                                    clock" on Court house, always indicating 111/2 oclock
                                    A.M. or P.M. just as suits you. You can see at any hour in the day men in
                                    "blue", comparing their watches to the supposed
                                    "Regulator" in the Cupalo, and often near sighted men turn their
                                    watches from the right hour to take up the "town time", but on a
                                    close inspection by some, & long range with others, the
                                    hands of the aforesaid Clock are found to be the work of a painter & not
                                    machinist, and instead of innumerable cog wheels put together in clock form, a small
                                    brass bell is the only inhabitant inside the tower.84
                        
                        
                           
                              84 Robertville, 
                                            South Carolina
                                        , called Black Swamp prior to the early 1800s, was named for the
                                        family of Henry Martyn Robert (1837–1923), a military engineer who
                                        served in the Union Army during the Civil War. Robert was also the author of Rules of Order, the widely known handbook on
                                    parliamentary
                        
                        
                        
                           BLACK SWAMP BAPTIST CHURCH, ROBERTVILLE, SOUTH CAROLINA. (SEE FOOTNOTE 84) Courtesy Thomas O. Lawton, Jr.
                        
                        
                        All wealthy people have fled on our approach, leaving splendid plantations &
                                    palatial mansions & "refugee" farther into the state only
                                    to be troubled soon again to pack up their "truck &
                                    dicker" & flee still farther as the Yanks advance. The poor people
                                    are respected by the soldiers and their property protected while the rich are
                                    persecuted when caught and their barns, gins & houses fall victims to the
                                    invaders match.
                        A destructive fire took place a few evenings ago in Savannah, which has heaped
                                    desolation upon misery to many well disposed people of the city. Starvation was
                                    almost staring them in the face and in the midst of such trials to be thrown
                                    homeless & houseless upon the hospitality of the citizens who still own
                                    homes—although over crowed by refugees from all parts of 
                                        Georgia
                                    —is hard indeed.
                        The boys have now the grapvine rumor that a bill has passed both houses of Congress,
                                    "To discharge troops whose time is out in 65, 3 months prior to expiration
                                    of their three years, provided they will subject themselves at once to a
                                    draft." If such be the case the 70th could go home in May.85
                        
                        "I can't see it" and would prefer serving 3 months and be
                                    clear of all drafts & conscriptions for these [three?] long years
                                    from 12 August 1865.
                        We are camping here only for a few days when we will take the line of march, and our
                                    communication with the north may be severed for many days.
                        I will not tell you Shermans plan because it would be contraband and besides I know
                                    no more than you do about it.86
                        
                        Oh: I almost forgot to tell you, to buy a toothbrush and present
                                    the same to your humble serv't. Send it by mail. I would send home for it
                                    but I may forget it when I write there next.
                        We had a little sport on the pike last night at horse racing
                                    (contrary 
                              procedure. Federal Writers Programs, Works Projects Administration, 
                                    
                                                    South Carolina
                                                : A Guide to the Palmetto State (
                                                New York
                                            , 1941), 328. According to a descendant of an early family in
                                            the town, the clock described by Cox was located in the bell tower of the
                                            Black Swamp Baptist Church. Built during the mid 1820s, this church, later
                                            burned by Sherman's army, was "very eloquent inside and
                                            out, with much attention to minute architectural detail, i.e. the ceiling
                                            was coved, the walls wainscoting, windows were architraved, etc."
                                            Thomas O. Lawton, Jr., to Lorna Lutes Sylvester, July 27, 1972. Life in
                                            Robertville was apparently typical of southern antebellum plantation
                                            society. It is believed that this town was the first in 
                                                South Carolina
                                             to be destroyed by Sherman's army. E. L. Inabinett,
                                            "The Lawson Family Of Robertville, S.C." ([Savannah,
                                            1964]), 3–4, 11, passim.
                              
                              
                                 85 No bill such as Cox describes has been located.
                              
                                 86 In moving his troops northward from Savannah, 
                                                Georgia
                                            , Sherman feinted toward Augusta and 
                                    Charleston, South
                                                    Carolina
                                 , and headed toward 
                                                Columbia
                                            . He remained there for a few days destroying railroads and then
                                            moved northeastward toward 
                                    Goldsboro, North
                                                Carolina
                                 . In the meantime Schofield's army
                                            had captured Fort Fisher and 
                                    Wilmington, North
                                                Carolina
                                 , and was also heading for 
                                                Goldsboro
                                            . Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 125.
                           
                                     to the articles of war) and I have the
                                    satisfaction of owning the fastest horse "in the business."
                        I am writing this on the back of "Gail Hamiltons" "Country
                                    living & country thinking", which I have been reading all
                                        evening.87
                        
                        We capture enough books to keep us in reading and out of mischief.
                        But let me "dry up" for should I commence another sheet I would
                                    miss the mail. Health very good.
                        Love to the folks
                        
                                    Affect brother
                                    Charley.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              70th Ind Vols
                              
                                 
                                    Goldsboro, North
                                Carolina
                                 
                              
                           
                                    March 25th 1865
                                
                        My darling Sister
                        Katie—
                        I have again the pleasure of writing you after a long silence of almost two months.
                                    During our raid through the Carolinas, our communication with the north was severed,
                                    consequently no letters were either sent or received by Shermans Army. We felt
                                    almost out of the world during the trip, and although but a few hundred miles from
                                    home we might as well been in 
                                        Ethiopia
                                     and heard as much news from the U. S.
                        At Fayetteville N. C. we were notified that all letters ready in sixty minutes would
                                    be sent north via Cape Fear River. I wrote to Ma then, and would have sent you a
                                    word but several Official letters I was bound to write and yours was left undone.
                        I will not say a word about our campaign through S & N.C.'s you will
                                    hear enough when the newspaper correspondents have ceased their writings on Shermans
                                    raid. If they do not tell you all, I will, verbally, when my next four months roll
                                    by—
                        We had a pleasant & successful march, accomplished all that was
                                    intended—and lost not more than 4000 men in battle and
                                    captured—The casualties of the 70th number 15 during the
                                    raid—Several severe battles occured in which our Division 3 Div 20 C figured conspicuously, and are obliged to record the loss
                                    of 500 men—88
                        
                        
                           
                              87 Mary Abigail Dodge (pseud. Gail 
                                            Hamilton
                                        ), Country Living and Country Thinking (
                                            Boston
                                        , 1862).
                           
                              88 Sherman arrived in 
                                            Goldsboro
                                         on March 23, 1864, after marching 425 miles in fifty days, of which
                                        only ten were allocated for rest. Most sources, unlike Cox, indicate that
                                        Sherman's march was slowed by swamps, heavy rains, and one continuous
                                        battle with the elements. The Confederates interfered little with the Union
                                        advance, but the Twentieth Corps did engage Hardee at Averasboro on March 16 and
                                        lost approximately 554 men. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary,
                                        127. For the Seventieth Indiana's account of the march to 
                                            Goldsboro
                                         see Merrill, Seventieth Indiana,
                                        240–65.
                        
                        
                        Our army arrived yesterday at 
                                        Goldsboro
                                     meeting the armies of Schofield & Terry just arrived from 
                                        Wilmington
                                    . More than 100,000 men are now concentrated at this place all under
                                    Sherman, who is the man that can handle them—
                        The 14 15 17 20 23 24 & 25th Corps are here ready for any
                                        emergency—89
                        
                        Since January 19th I have not had a word from either you or home and you may imagine
                                    my anxiety for letters—We are hourly expecting a mail to arrive and it
                                    may be, before this leaves me a letter from you will be at hand—
                        We are also on the lookout for General Harrison, Col Merrill and a
                                    host of absentees from our command—90
                        
                        I am again back to my regiment as Adjutant, releived at my own request from duty on
                                    the Brigade Staff—I think the duties of Adjutant much plesanter than
                                    Provost Marshal, hence the change—
                        We are expecting a rest of several weeks at this point after our long
                                    journey—The troops need rest and clothing—two thirds of
                                    Shermans army are ragged almost to nakedness and one-half are
                                    barefooted—it is a fact—We were hurried from Savannah before
                                    fully equipped and after marching continually seven weeks and more than five hundred
                                    miles troops are sadly in need of soap, sole leather and Gove[r]nme[n]t
                                    uni[forms?]
                        Sherman has issued a congratulatory order to his army on their successful March
                                    through Carolinas and in dispersing the enemy at various points, and assures them
                                    that mail matter will be forthcoming & the QM & C.S. Dept's
                                    furnish all that is needful for the comfort of the troops before another campaign.
                        Feb'ry 26th—dark P.M.
                        Business called me from my writing yesterday, I continue again, it is dark, I am
                                    sitting on a log writing on a book by the light of a huge Camp fire. Talking about
                                        huge, the mail which arrived to day was more than huge, 600 sacks for the army. A dozen letters and equal number papers fell
                                    to my lot, one letter from you my dear sister, full of news; very kind &
                                    truly welcome
                        How proud I am Katie dear, when your kind letters reach me and 
                              
                                 89 When the forces of General Alfred H. Terry and
                                            Schofield joined Sherman at 
                                                Goldsboro
                                            , the Union commander had massed his entire force of
                                            approximately 80,000 men and was prepared to start toward
                                                    
                                    Raleigh, North Carolina
                                 . Boatner,
                                                Civil War Dictionary, 127.
                              
                                 90 Harrison was brevetted brigadier general for his
                                            services during the Civil War but was not appointed to full rank. Terrell,
                                                Report of the Adjutant General, II, 639; Ezra J.
                                            Warner, Generals in Blue: Lives of the Union Commanders (
                                                Baton Rouge
                                            , 1964), 586.
                           
                                     my eyes almost moisten to think what a precious
                                    loving sister I have to send words of love & encouragement to her little
                                    brother in the army—
                        Ma's letters & interesting, kind come often, and I beleive I should
                                    die of the blues did she cease to write—More letters are coming and later
                                    dates are anticipated from you I have to hurry up the cakes to
                                    send this tonight, but will when I have leisure write you all the news &
                                    more too—
                        Dont forget about that young lady when I return—Pick a pretty
                                    one—
                        Cousin Mattie Flenner sent me a long interesting epistle. I love to read her letters,
                                    they are splendidly written full of fun and sober thoughts—
                        I have a lot to write at some other time—
                        So good bye
                        Love to FBL & yourself &c &c &c
                        
                                    Charles
                                
                        My health perfect
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Adjutants Office—70th Ind
                              Goldsboro N.C.
                           
                                    April 2/65—
                                
                        Katie—
                        My dear sister!
                        So much business in my office the past week that I have had no time to write you but
                                    one letter since the ending of Sherman's last campaign—
                        It is a bright beautiful Sunday afternoon that I now attempt an answer to your kind
                                    letters of Febry 5 & 13 & Mar 7th & 20 all of which have
                                    come to hand since my last epistle of a week ago—
                        The tooth brush has also arri'd for which accept my
                                    sincere thanks and consider me in your debt the money value of the same and more too
                                    if you choose—
                        I have just written Ma a good long document on the [manuscript torn] &
                                    business affairs, telling her all I know and leaving nothing to write
                                    you—
                        Our army is still grouped around 
                                        Goldsboro
                                     receiving plenteous supplies of clothing, equipage & Sub stores
                                    and all preparations are actively being made to start on a new campaign in about ten
                                    days. Our next direction will be 
                                        Richmond
                                     I suppose, to be present at the death of the Rebellion, which will take
                                    place by the overthrow of Lee & his army this spring or the coming
                                    summer—
                        We have tremendous grape vine dispatches to day from Grant  and Lee. 
                                        Richmond
                                     evacuated, severe fighting, 50,000 men lost & such
                                        like—91
                        
                        Also the rumor is going the rounds that the 20th Corps is to be ordered to Point
                                    Lookout Md to releive the 8th Corps—I wish it were so. It would not be so
                                    bad to spend our unexpired term in the rear—We hear so
                                    many reports now days that turn out untrue, we hardly are able to beleive any more
                                    what we say, hear or see—
                        From last accounts—South Side—is not above high water mark
                                    —and the O-hi-o on a "tear"—92 Be careful or you may wake up some wet morning and find your little
                                    shanty foating past Loisville—without rudder or helmsman—
                        The Savannah River riz while we were in its vicinity, causing our army to lie water
                                    bound some little time—The numerous rivers in N & S Carolina all
                                    remained smooth & placid while Sherman crossed on his pontoons, excepting
                                    the Catawba (not very sparkling)93 which
                                    delayed us several days by washing away the pontoons of our wing—
                        I had half a notion to apply for a leave of absence from this point but concluded the
                                    conditions on which they are granted were a little too much for me to certify
                                    too—
                        A man has to be 9/10 dead himself and then certify all his friends, family &
                                    acquaintences are about to breath their last, before a leave is granted
                                    him—
                        Our nights are rather cool but the days are pleasant & warm—The
                                    entire past winter was like a perpetual spring to us Northerners. I pitied
                                    "youalls" in the north having such dismal, wet & cold
                                    weather whilst we were basking in the continual smiles of the welcome
                                    Sun—
                        Snow is hardly known where we spent the winter—
                        You shall hear from me soon again and while so saying I send an aboundance of love to
                                    Frank, yourself & all the pretty girls on the river—
                        Don't fail to write often
                        
                                    as ever
                                    brother
                                    Charley
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  91 Grant's 
                            Petersburg
                         campaign ended with the Confederate defeat on March 25, 1865, and the 
                            Appomattox
                         campaign is generally considered to have begun on March 29. Lee, suffering from
                        recent defeats at Grant's hands, evacuated 
                            Richmond
                         on the night of April 2–3, 1865, and moved south in an attempt to join
                        Johnston's forces which were retreating northward from Sherman. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 22, 699.
               
                  92 Serious floods occurred in 
                     New York, Pennsylvania
                  ,
                        and New 
                            England
                         during the last weeks of March, 1864. Other than a few high winds, some rain, and a
                        slight rise of the Ohio River, however, 
                            Cincinnati
                         does not seem to have been affected. 
                            Cincinnati
                        
                        Daily Gazette, March 20, 21, 23, April 1, 1864.
               
                  93 Cox is perhaps referring to a light colored, sparkling wine made from
                        the Catawba grape, a reddish variety of grape which received its name from the Catawba River in 
                            South Carolina
                         where it was grown.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Adjutants Office
                              Seventieth Ind Vols
                              
                                 
                                    Goldsboro
                                 ’ N.C.
                           
                                    April 8/65
                                
                        Kate!
                        My dear Sister!
                        Again my time and feelings permits me to send a few words to you my dear Katie, and
                                    if I did not answer immediately your last epistle it is because my official business
                                    & military duties have occupied me from reveille till taps, hardly alowing
                                    me time to give thanks & rejoice at the successes of our arms with Grant,
                                    which have been announced to us by dispatch after dispatch the past 3 days.94
                        
                        
                           
                                        Richmond
                                     & 
                                        Petersburg
                                     in our hands and the last of the Confederate Army "hunting a
                                    new hole". What glorious news, and then thousands of prisoners and hundreds
                                    of guns. Surely the end draweth nigh and the fair maidens of the North will soon
                                    have cause to forget "When this cruel war is over", and substitute
                                    therefor "The boys are home from the wars"—
                        While throughout the North, bonfires were blazing, houses illuminated, happy smiles
                                    brightening all loyal faces, and every body feeling good, our boys here at 
                                        Goldsboro
                                     were not behind the times in their demonstrations on receipt of the
                                    news of 
                                        Richmond
                                     Captured.
                        Store boxes & barrels were too scarce for bonfires, but Commissary whiskey
                                    and powder was plenty and while the shoulder straps swallowed the whis [key] the soldiers would fill their old canteens with powder, then bury
                                    them in the ground and by the persuasion of slow matches would make noise enough to
                                    raise the dead, then muskets would accidently discharge themselves in the air. Cheer
                                    after cheer would go up as every batch of news was read to the men, and the cheering
                                    of 100,000 men makes no small noise in the wilderness of 
                                        North Carolina
                                    .
                        General & Staff officers were all drunk, (exceptions of course) and many
                                    soldiers were feeling pretty well from the effects of "commissary"
                                    issued on forged orders.
                        But it is all over now, all quiet at 
                                        Goldsboro
                                    , and preparations in progress to move the 10th instant on another
                                    campaign to assist Grant in annihilating the remainder of Bob Lee's
                                    confederates. 
                                        Raleigh
                                     will be another name for our banners before 10 days, and the northern
                                    part of this tar, turpentine & pitch state will soon receive Shermans
                                    compliments & wish they had never seceeded.
                        I will write you before we start if possible—
                        
                           
                              94 After Lee's evacuation of 
                                            Richmond
                                        , he moved first south and then west, always in a running battle
                                        with advancing Union forces. Finally, surrounded and defeated, Lee surrendered
                                        at 
                                            Appomattox
                                         Court House on April 9, 1865. Boatner, Civil War
                                            Dictionary, 22.
                        
                        
                        My health continues excellent—and I have no objections to be travelling
                                    North as the Summer closes in on us. The weather continues pleasant and a fine
                                    shower last night brings out the blossoms, and clothes the trees with their greenest
                                    foliage—But more anon & write often to your affectionate brother
                        
                                    Charley
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Raleigh N. C.
                           
                                    April 16th 1865— (Easter day)
                                
                        My dear sister!
                        I find myself again penning you a few words, not that I have any thing extraordinary
                                    to relate nor the mere fact that I owe you a letter (which I do not) but it is such
                                    a bright beautiful Sunday afternoon that I feel as though it would be a sin if I did
                                    not write to some one instead of sleeping the afternoon away—as you are
                                    doing, I'll bet—and you not knowing whether your little brother is dead or alive.
                        We marched from 
                                        Goldsboro
                                    —the 10th, reached this city the 13th, the rear guard of
                                    Johnson's army leaving one side of the town while our advance was entering
                                    at the other.
                        Four of our corps immediately pushed through the city after the retreating rebels,
                                    leaving the 10th & 20th corps here for some reason or other.
                        Our troops only got a few miles from 
                                        Raleigh
                                     when they were met by a flag of truce from Johnson and Jeff Davis and
                                    while I now write hostilities have ceased and Johnson, Davis and Sherman are holding
                                    a series of communications which will undoubtedly end in the surrender of Johnson
                                    and his army, and probably more than that, even of the entire "Southern
                                    Confederacy" returning to its allegiance to the U.S.95
                        
                        We are all waiting patiently for the word, whether they are to give up now or wait
                                    until we annihilate what is left of them. Gen Sherman was heard to remark to day
                                    that "by midnight to night he would see two months ahead," that
                                    is, if they did not surrender to day they would be obliged to inside of 2
                                    Mo's.
                        I hope and pray that this bright sabbath day may be the one on 
                              
                                 95 Realizing the hopelessness of his situation
                                            Johnston requested an armistice on April 14, 1865. Without renewal of
                                            hostilities he surrendered to Sherman on April 26, 1865. Ibid., 127. As Sherman's army approached 
                                                Raleigh
                                             on April 14, the city's commissioners met the Union
                                            commander south of the city limits and surrendered. David L. Swain,
                                            president of 
                                                North Carolina
                                             State College, acting in the absence of Governor Zebulon B.
                                            Vance, delivered the keys of the capital city to Sherman. 
                                                Raleigh
                                             was not burned as had been many other towns in
                                            Sherman's path. Blackwell P. Robinson, ed., The 
                                                    North Carolina
                                                 Guide (
                                                Chapel Hill
                                            , 1955), 234; William S. Powell, 
                                    
                                                    Raleigh
                                                -Durham-
                                                    Chapel Hill
                                                : A Students’ Guide to Localized History (
                                                New York
                                            , 1968), 11.
                           
                                     which Jeff Davis may see that his cause is
                                    hopeless and save the further bloodshed consequent on his persisting to destroy the
                                    Union.
                        We in the army are looking forward to a speedy return home and peace reigning as
                                    before. I may not get to send this to day and by tomorrow may inform you our fate,
                                    whether our battles are all fought or whether our bayonets & bullets are
                                    still demanded—
                        How are you Copperheads? At what discount are butternuts about this
                                    time? For four years the U.S. and C.S. have been in the scales, the U.S.
                                    has now reached the ground and the grand old
                                    "Confederacy" "gone up the spout"—
                        We have been at 
                                        Raleigh
                                     some 4 days, our regiment is encamped near the Insane Asylum, S. W.
                                    part of town.96
                        
                        The city is a most beautiful place, size of 
                                        Lafayette
                                    , Ind. broad shady streets, handsome residences, with fine state capitol
                                    and buildings.97 The inhabitants have all remained at home and
                                    seem quite friendly plenty good looking girls and ugly old women. Have made no
                                    acquaintences among the fair sex as yet, and am waiting only to see whether the war
                                    is over or not before falling in love with any more feminine genders.
                        This morning our Major and myself went down town and attended services at the
                                    episcopal church. An old gentleman officiated, but not a member of the congregation
                                    male or female was present although the church was full of shoulder straps. Maj
                                    Gen's Howard, Slocum, Barry and dozens other General officers were
                                        present.98
                        
                        I think at least the choir of the church might have attended & releived us
                                    poor sinners of the musical part. The services were gone through finely, by a yankee
                                    congregation and rebel minister, and I am now convinced that religious services in
                                    the episcopal church can be held without the aid of citizens or females.
                        The church is a handsome stone structure and reminds me both inside & out of
                                    our church at Ind'polis—
                        I failed to hear the prayer for the President of the U.S. I have 
                              
                                 96 The state hospital at 
                                                Raleigh
                                             was located on Dix Hill. It had been authorized in 1848 by the
                                            legislature at the instigation of Dorothea Dix, a pioneer reformer in the
                                            treatment of mental illness. The main building was designed in the Gothic
                                            Revival style by Alexander 
                                                Jackson
                                             Davis and was opened in 1856. Robinson, 
                                    
                                                    North Carolina
                                                 Guide, 245. Merrill in his regimental history also
                                            mentions an incident which occurred at the mental hospital. See Merrill, Seventieth Indiana, 268–71.
                              
                                 97 According to the census of 1860
                                                    
                                    Raleigh, North Carolina
                                 , had a
                                            population of 4,780, including white, free colored, and slave. 
                                                Lafayette
                                            , Indiana, had a population of 9,254 including white and free
                                            colored. Eighth Census of the 
                                                    United States
                                                , 1860. Vol. I, Statistics of
                                            Population, 126, 359.
                              
                                 98 The Episcopal church in 
                                                Raleigh
                                             was considered the most noteworthy Gothic Revival building in 
                                                North Carolina
                                            . Designed by Richard Upjohn, it was erected between 1848 and
                                            1853. Robinson, 
                                    
                                                    North Carolina
                                                 Guide, 239–40. Cox probably refers to Major
                                            Zachariah S. Ragan of the Seventieth Indiana and Major Generals Oliver O.
                                            Howard, Henry W. Slocum, and William F. Barry. Terrell, Report
                                                of the Adjutant General, II, 640; Boatner, Civil War
                                                Dictionary, 47, 413–14, 765.
                           
                                     visited the Lunatic Asylum going through the
                                    different wards. I could but pity many of the Lunatics I saw and then laugh at the
                                    ridiculous capers & saying of others—
                        But I will not wait & delay this letter to give you the news of Johnsons
                                    surrender or capture, but, beleive me, I really beleive in 24
                                    hours Johnson & his army will be prisoners in our hands.
                        Much love to yourself and husband I am affectionately Your
                                    brother—Charley—
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Raleigh N. C.
                           
                                    April 29th 1865
                                
                        My dear Sister
                        Several days since I was rejoicing over the receipt of a most welcome letter from you
                                    dated 6th inst. Our corps being absent from the city some 4 days and the mail
                                    irregular I have consequently neglected you longer than I should.
                        You are aware before this by the flash of the telegraph that Johnson has
                                    "gum up" to us, and peace now reigns from the Potomac to the
                                    Chattahoochee, and I doubt not but in a very few days the rebels along the
                                    Mississipi will have "grounded arms" and a great grand &
                                    glorious old peace we will have from Maine to 
                                        Texas
                                    . About 25,000 rebels surrendered to Sherman and while I write they are
                                    being paroled and turning over their guns, &c. I shall give you no items
                                    concerning the capitulation as my time to day will scarcely permit me to tell you
                                    that I am "alive and kicking". I have not time to write home and
                                    beg of you to tell Ma that she may look for a letter from me from 
                                        Richmond
                                     in about two weeks.
                        We march within 48 hours for 
                                        Richmond
                                    , and from there to some point farther north, probably to 
                                        Washington
                                     and not improbabl to Fredrick or some town in Md. to be mustered out.
                        
                        We expect to be enjoying home by 4th of July. Not sooner I think.
                        Direct your next via 
                                        Washington City
                                    , D. C.
                        
                                    Much love &c.
                                    Charley.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Richmond
                                 , Va.
                           
                                    May 11th 1865.
                                
                        Katie
                        Dear Sister:
                        I have just recd and read your kind letter of the 29th April and it came just in time
                                    to enable me to answer it before arriving at 
                                        Washington
                                     for which point we march at 11 o'c'l'k this
                                    A.M.
                        We were 9 days on the march from 
                                        Raleigh
                                     to 
                                        Richmond
                                     arriving here the 8th inst and in 9 more days I hope to send you
                                    another missive from 
                                        Alexandria
                                     or 
                                        Washington
                                    .
                        
                        We are to be paraded through the principal streets of 
                                        Richmond
                                     to day before commencing our march farther north, giving the citizens a
                                    chance to see that Shermans troops are men and not devils, and
                                    show these eastern troops, the boys that have marched over 2000 miles to compel the
                                    evacuation of the city from which I write.
                        May God bless you sister Katie for your respect for our General and
                                    the manner you defend him from the abuses of those who had an idol in some other man
                                    and was afraid Sherman was gaining too much glory.
                        I did not approve the terms of Capitulation which Sherman offered Johnson, neither do
                                    I think Sherman thought they would be ratified at 
                                        Washington
                                    , but as our army had not the supplies to chase Johnson probably for 30
                                    days, Sherman got up this armistice with Johnson, so as he could bring up from the
                                    coast supplies sufficient to push Johnson until he could be cornered &
                                    captured.
                        What if Sherman did sincerely beleive in the terms he proposed.
                                    They were not approved at 
                                        Washington
                                    . No one has been hurt, and what harm has been
                                        done!
                           99
                        
                        [Friends?] should not be so easily parted with. Sherman has been the
                                    General of the war and Grant has done right in giving "Honor to whom honor
                                    is due" Lee would have held 
                                        Richmond
                                     yet, if Sherman had hammered away at 
                                        Atlanta
                                     for 4 years. The fact of our raiding through the Confederacy destroying
                                    every thing as we went and severing the flow of supplies to Lee is what compelled
                                    the evacuation of the rebel Capital and not on account of any movement of any other
                                    army—
                        I say, Hurra for Sherman! so does his entire army, and they will not allow him abused
                                    in their presence. But we expect to be home in June and then I will talk to you
                                    about these matters.
                        My health continues good. Direct your next to 
                                        Washington
                                    , with much love to all I remain
                        
                                    Charley
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  99 When Sherman had met with Johnston on April 17, 1865, and again with
                        Johnston and Confederate Secretary of War John C. Breckinridge on April 18, the three men had
                        written and signed "A Memorandum or Basis of Agreement" indicating the terms
                        of surrender. The armistice also contained sweeping civil and political concessions which went
                        far beyond the powers of either general to grant and practically took reconstruction out of the
                        hands of the President and Congress. President Andrew Johnson and his Cabinet rejected the
                        agreement, and Sherman was ordered to sign new armistice terms duplicating those signed at 
                            Appomattox
                        . This was done on April 26, 1865. What angered Sherman and his forces was the
                        public attack made on the general by Secretary of War Stanton, who implied that the Union
                        general had violated 
                            Lincoln
                        's orders and had granted an armistice in order to allow Jefferson Davis to
                        escape. Stanton stopped just short of accusing Sherman of treason. Sherman, however, remained a
                        popular hero in the North. Bruce Catton, Never Call Retreat (The
                            Centennial History of the Civil War, Vol. III; 
                            New York
                        , 965), 463–66.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Adjutants Office 70th Ind Vol
                              Nr Washington D. C.
                           
                                    June 1/65
                                
                        My dear Sister!
                        I have delayed writing to you several days in hope of receiving a letter of later
                                    date than Ap'l 20—but you have not written and I send a word
                                    this morning—
                        I have had several letters from Ma since our arrival at the Capitol and have written
                                    her as many in return, as she censured me severely for sending you several letters
                                    while none to her.
                        We are very busy now preparing the necessary documents for our
                                    muster out, so soon as they are completed we will start for the west. Within 10 days
                                    I think we will be on the road, which will leave us here long enough for you to
                                    answer this as you have already ceased writing looking for us home I
                                    suppose—
                        We are ordered to turn in our guns & equipage at this place and go home
                                    unburdened. 
                                        Louisville
                                     is the western rendezvous to which we are to proceed, from there we
                                    will be sent home.100
                        
                        We will doubtless go down the Ohio fro[m] 
                                        Wheeling
                                    , so Katie you can look out the back door of your "cottage by
                                    the sea" and observe Sherman's invincible Army floating down the
                                        
                                        
                                            Ohio
                                        
                                    —
                        You must display the "Stars & Stripes" from the roof of
                                    your house, and greet the boys as they pass with the waving of a
                                    kerchief—
                        Dont hurt your eyes watching for me as I may take the cars & travel another
                                    route.
                        If I should pass through Cin'ti you may bet I will come see you, if such can be done. We are not to be paid until our return home, which
                                    may be a good plan but I cant see it—with as few
                                    "rocks" in my pocket as I have been jingling lately—
                        I am in pretty good health not the best as I have been working hard in the office
                                    lately & no exercise, together with ugly dreams and no letter from the
                                    "Girl I left behind" has caused me to look & feel a
                                    "little the worse for wear"—I will write you again
                                    before leaving for the west and it may be I will have opportunties to write several
                                    times—Regards to Frank and with much love to you dear si[s]ter I remain
                                    affecty Charley
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  100 The Seventieth Indiana was mustered out on June 8, 1865, in 
                            Washington
                        , D. C, and headed for 
                     Louisville,
                                Kentucky
                  . When the regiment arrived
                        in 
                            Indianapolis
                        , it was given a reception on the capitol grounds on June 16, with addresses by
                        Governor Morton, General Alvin P. Hovey, and Harrison. Terrell, Report of the
                            Adjutant General, II, 646–47. The regimental history describes the last days
                        in 
                            Washington
                        , D. C, the trip home, and the troops’ final discharge. See Merrill, Seventieth Indiana, 276–81.
            
         
         
         
            The 
                        Prairie
                     Potawatomi Removal of 1833
            
                    R. David Edmunds
                    *
                
            Vacillation and lack of efficient administration has generally characterized American Indian policy.
                    The three decades following the War of 1812 were no exception. Early governmental attempts to
                    convert the Indians to an agricultural way of life failed, and by the 1820s officials in 
                        Washington
                     became convinced that their only recourse was to remove the Indians beyond the 
                        Mississippi
                    . In Indiana and Illinois reports from Indian agents who were pessimistic in their
                    appraisals of the Indians’ ability to adjust to the increasing white settlement and who
                    warned that the tribesmen were being victimized and debauched by unscrupulous white frontiersmen
                    buttressed this decision.1
            
            Among the Indians who still occupied lands in Illinois and Indiana following the War of 1812 were the 
                        Prairie
                     Potawatomi. Early French explorers had encountered these tribesmen in Michigan and
                    western 
                        Wisconsin
                    , but during the first half of the eighteenth century they had migrated onto the
                    prairies of north central Illinois and western Indiana. Scattering their villages from the
                    headwaters of the Kankakee to the north fork of the Sangamon, these Indians had remained loyal to
                    the French through Pontiac's Rebellion.2 During the American Revolution
                    they divided their loyalty between the British and the Americans, but after the American victory the 
                        Prairie
                     Band became increasingly pro-British. Many of them were active followers of Tecumseh,
                    and during the War of 1812 a 
                        Prairie
                     Potawatomi war party was responsible for the Fort Dearborn massacre.3
            
            
               
                  * R. David Edmunds is assistant professor of history at the
                        University of 
                            Wyoming
                        , Laramie. This article is a revised version of a paper originally presented at the
                        Annual Conference of the Western History Association, 
                     Tucson, Arizona
                  , October,
                        1968.
               
                  1 A good general discussion of early American Indian policy can be found
                        in Francis Paul Prucha, American Indian Policy in the Formative Years: The Indian
                            Trade and Intercourse Acts, 1790–1834 (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1962). For examples of agents’ reports see John P. Hedges and
                        Jacob Leephart to John 
                            Tipton
                        , February 11, 1828; John Tipton to Thomas McKenney, January 31, 1830, Nellie
                        Armstrong Robertson and Dorothy Riker, eds., The John Tipton Papers (3 vols.,
                            Indiana Historical Collections, Vols. XXIV-XXVI; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1942), II, 19, 243–44.
               
                  2 Frederick Webb Hodge, ed., Handbook of American Indians
                            North of 
                                Mexico
                            
                   (2 vols., Bureau of American Ethnology, Bulletin 30: 
                            Washington
                        , 1907–1910), 289–91, 303; Alanson Skinner, The
                            Mascoutens or 
                                Prairie
                             Potawatomi Indians (Bulletin of the Public Museum of the City
                            of 
                                Milwaukee
                            
                  , Vol. VI, No. 1; 
                            Milwaukee
                        , 1924), 9–15. Both Hodge and Skinner offer brief historical sketches of
                        the 
                            Prairie
                         Band. There is no extended survey of the band's history. The 
                            Prairie
                         Potawatomi occupied the area from western Indiana through northeastern to north
                        central 
                            Illinois
                        . They seem to have frequented the area along the Kankakee and Iroquois rivers,
                        roaming westward to the Illinois River and southwestward to the headwaters of the Sangamon. It
                        is impossible to locate their homeland with precision.
               
                  3 Louise P. Kellogg, The British Regime in Wisconsin and the
                            Northioest (
                            Madison
                        , 1935), 286.
            
            
            The years following the War of 1812 continued to be troublesome for this band of Potawatomi. In 1819
                    the Kickapoo ceded their lands in central Illinois and western Indiana to the 
                        United States
                    .4 The Potawatomi claimed much of this region, but the Kickapoo
                    cession enabled white frontiersmen to settle legally upon the Potawatomi hunting lands. Increasing
                    American settlement depleted the game supply, and white traders plied the Indians with whiskey.5 The 
                        Prairie
                     Band also contributed to the problem. They continued to hunt throughout the newly
                    settled parts of the state, and white farmers charged that the Potawatomi frequently killed
                    domesticated farm animals.6 The 
                        Prairie
                     Band was also accused of collaborating in the 
                        Winnebago
                     uprising of 1827. They committed no hostilities, but their refusal to act as spies for
                    the Illinois militia causd suspicion among their white neighbors.7
            
            As public resentment of the 
                        Prairie
                     Band increased, state officials in Indiana and Illinois urged the federal government to
                    remove this portion of the Potawatomi. In 1829 seven chiefs of the 
                        Prairie
                     Band informed John 
                        Tipton
                    , an Indian agent at 
                        Logansport
                    , Indiana, that they were interested in selling part of their lands in 
                        Illinois
                    , and Tipton frequently attempted to prod federal officials into action.8 In April, 1831, he advised the War Department in 
                        Washington
                    : 
                        This is the most favorable time to remove these Indians, that has been, since I have been
                            their agent,—if you commence before they plant their corn, which will be in June.
                            The deep snow, and cold of last winter killed many of their horses ... and caused great
                            suffering amongst the Indians; and they will remove to the new country, if there is game and
                            fish—and grass for their horses, especially if it be a little south of where they
                            now live.9
                  
                    
            
            Although increasing settlement, pleas by government officials, and Indian dissatisfaction all
                    contributed to conditions leading to the Potawatomi removal, the Black Hawk War was the catalyst
                    that made such removal possible. American settlers, enraged by the conflict, indiscriminately blamed
                    all Indians for the hostilities, and 
                  
                     4 Charles J. Kappler, ed., Indian Affairs: Laws and
                                Treaties (5 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1904–1941), II, 127–29. The Kickapoo ceded a small area
                            in 
                        Benton, Warren
                     , and Vermillion counties in extreme western Indiana at this
                            time.
                  
                     5 Thomas McKenney to the War Department, June 12, 1826, Donald J.
                            Berthrong Collection (Division of Manuscripts, Bizzell Memorial Library, University of
                                    
                        Oklahoma, Norman
                     ). The Berthrong Collection consists of photostatic
                            copies of letters and other manuscripts from the Records of the Bureau of Indian Affairs,
                            Record Group 75 (National Archives, 
                                Washington
                            ).
                  
                     6 Ninian W. Edwards, History of 
                                    Illinois
                                , from 1778 to 1833; and Life and Times of Ninian Edwards (
                                Springfield
                            , 1870), 225.
                  
                     7 Alexander Wolcott to James Barbour, July 25, 1827, Berthrong
                            Collection.
                  
                     8 John Tipton to John Eaton, April 29, 1829; John Tipton to Thomas
                            McKenney, September 2, 1830, Robertson and Riker, Tipton Papers, II, 161,
                            329–31.
                  
                     9 John Tipton to John Eaton, April 5, 1831, ibid.,
                            400–401.
               
                     public opinion demanded the acquisition of tribal lands in
                    Illinois and Indiana. The 
                        Prairie
                     Potawatomi actually took little part in the conflict although a few disaffected
                    tribesmen may have briefly joined the Sac chief, Black Hawk.10 Sac envoys
                    carried invitations to war as far east as Indiana,11 but Potawatomi chiefs
                    refused their overtures and advised the Sac against hostilities.12 The 
                        Prairie
                     Band villages in northern Illinois sent a deputation of chiefs to 
                        Chicago
                     to assure American officials of their good intentions. These Indians reported that they
                    were afraid the Sac would come among them and cause trouble with their white neighbors.13 Other members of the 
                        Prairie
                     Band warned the whites of approaching Sac war parties14 or
                    volunteered to help American forces drive the hostiles away from the settlements.15
            
            These actions were unsuccessful in persuading the settlers of the 
                        Prairie
                     Band's peaceful intentions. Panic stricken by the American defeat at
                    Stillman's Run, near the Rock River in northern Illinois on May 14, 1832, an officer in the
                    Illinois militia fabricated a report that the entire frontier had been "invaded by a
                    powerful detachment of Indian Warriors of the Sac, Fox, Winibago, and Potawatomii and part of the
                    Kickapoo Nations."16 In an isolated incident three Potawatomi murdered
                    a family of settlers in central 
                        Illinois
                    , and although they were soon in the custody of the local sheriff, Governor John
                    Reynolds issued a proclamation that the 
                        Winnebago
                     and Potawatomi had joined the Sac.17 This proclamation greatly
                    alarmed the settlers of the Illinois and Indiana frontier, and both states organized volunteer
                    militia groups to protect their citizens from the supposed Indian menace.18
            
            
               
                  10 Steven Mason to Lewis Cass, June 8, 1832, Berthrong Collection. Good
                        general accounts of the Black Hawk War can be found in William T. Hagan, The Sac
                            and Fox Indians (
                            Norman
                        , 1958); and Frank E. Stevens, The Black Hawk War (
                            Chicago
                        , 1903).
               
                  11 William Marshall to unknown correspondent, July 6, 1832, Berthrong
                        Collection.
               
                  12 William Clark to Lewis Cass, May 8, 1832, Roll 750, "
                            St. Louis
                         Superintendency, 1832–1835," National Archives Microcopy 234,
                        "Letters Received by the Office of Indian Affairs, 1824–1881,"
                        Records of the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
               
                  13 Thomas J. V. Owen to Elbert Herring, May 12, 1832, Berthrong
                        Collection.
               
                  14 Alta P. Waters, "Shabonee," Journal of
                            the Illinois State Historical Society, XVII (October, 1924), 383.
               
                  15 Thomas J. V. Owen to Elbert Herring, June 3, 1832. Berthrong
                        Collection.
               
                  16 James Strode to Lewis Cass, May 22, 1832, ibid.
               
               
                  17 John Reynolds to Lewis Cass, May 22, 1832, ibid.
               
               
                  18 William Marshall to Lewis Cass, June 5, 1832, ibid.
                        The settlers of eastern Illinois and western Indiana were panic stricken by the outbreak of
                        hostilities and circulated greatly exaggerated accounts of imminent danger in their areas. State
                        officials reacted to these reports by mustering militia groups and attempting to patrol the area
                        between 
                            Vincennes
                         and 
                            Chicago
                        . Correspondence regarding these events can be found in Robertson and Riker, Tipton Papers, II, 615–18; and Dorothy Riker and Gayle Thornbrough,
                        eds., Messages and Papers Relating to the Administration of Noah Noble. Governor of
                            Indiana, 1831–1837 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol.
                        XXXVIII; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1958), 105–13.
            
            
            Black Hawks’ defeat on the Bad Axe River in Wisconsin on August 2, 1832, did not terminate
                    the malevolent attitude of the settlers toward the 
                        Prairie
                     Potawatomi. Although a later investigation absolved these Indians from any charges of
                    organized hostilities, many whites were convinced that they had aided the Sac.19
                    Congress reacted by authorizing the appointment of a commission of three members to
                    "extinguish Indian title within the states of Indiana, and Illinois and the Territory of 
                        Michigan
                    ."20
            
            The commissioners, Jonathan Jennings, John Davis, and Marks Crume, met with certain members of the 
                        Prairie
                     Band at Camp 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , Indiana, in October, 1832. On October 20 the 
                        Prairie
                     Potawatomi ceded to the 
                        United States
                     their lands in northeastern 
                        Illinois
                    , which lands comprised over 782,400 acres21 and encompassed an area
                    bounded by the 
                        Illinois
                    -Indiana state line and the 
                        Illinois
                    , Kankakee, and Vermillion rivers.22 The 
                  Wabash, St. Joseph
               , and
                    Michigan bands of the Potawatomi tribe also met with these officials, and by October 27 they had
                    concluded treaties in which they gave up all claims to lands in Illinois and ceded certain areas in
                    northern Indiana and 
                        Michigan
                    .23
            
            To obtain the 
                        Prairie
                     Potawatomi cession the government agreed to pay an annuity of $15,000 for
                    twenty years. The commissioners also agreed that the government would assume a debt of
                    $28,746 which this band owed various traders. Merchandise valued at $45,000
                    was given the Indians at Camp 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , and another gift of merchandise worth $30,000 was to be made during the
                    next year at 
                        Chicago
                    . Twenty-one 
                        Prairie
                     Potawatomi warriors who had served with American forces during the Black Hawk War
                    received $1,400 for horses that they claimed were lost during the conflict. Thirtyseven
                    and one half sections scattered over the ceded lands were reserved for individual Indians, and the 
                        Prairie
                     Band was given hunting rights on government lands in the Sangamon and Wabash
                        river valleys.24
            
            The commissioners submitted a report to 
                        Washington
                     stating that their expenses had been greater than anticipated because of the large
                    number of Indians who claimed lands in the ceded areas and who had attended the conference. The
                    agents also complained that the different bands of Potawatomi claimed overlapping areas in 
                  
                     19 Report of Colonel S. C. Christy to Illinois Governor John Reynolds,
                            April 28, 1833, copy, Berthrcng Collection. Documents designated as copies are contemporary
                            transcriptions made by secretaries or clerks.
                  
                     20 Lewis Cass to Jonathan Jennings, John Davis, and Marks Crume, July
                            14, 1832, ibid.
                  
                  
                     21 Mary Helen O'Connor, "Pottawatomie Land Cessions
                            in the Old Northwest" (M.A. thesis, Department of History, Cornell University,
                            1942), 88.
                  
                     22 Kappler, Indian Affairs: Laws and Treaties, II,
                            353–56.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., 367–70, 372–75.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., 353–56.
               
                    
                    
                  Map compiled from information in Charles J. Kappler, ed., Indian Affairs: Laws
                                and Treaties (5 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1904–1941), II, 128, 256; Lewis Sands, "Journal of
                            Occurences [sic] In the Pottawatomie Removal under the Direction of Lewis
                            Sands, Asst. Agent."; William R. Montgomery, "Lieut. W. R.
                            Montgomery's Journal during the Emigration of Pottawatomies in the Summer of
                            1833," Berthrong Collection (Division of Manuscripts Bizzell Memorial Library,
                            University of 
                        Oklahoma, Norman
                     ).
               
                     Illinois and Indiana and that their negotiations had been
                    handicapped by a large number of traders whose presence among the Indians seemed detrimental to the
                    government's position.25
            
            Although Potawatomi removal had been discussed at the negotiations, it had not been included in the
                    terms of the treaty. The 
                        Prairie
                     Band, therefore, still occupied their former lands in 
                        Illinois
                    . The Illinois settlers were not happy with the continued occupation, and their ill
                    feelings toward the 
                        Prairie
                     Potawatomi were also buttressed by hardships incurred during the winter of
                    1832–1833. During the previous summer settlers had been kept from their fields by the
                    threat of Indian attack, and their harvest had been small.26
            
            Once again rumors of Potawatomi hostility spread across the Illinois prairies. After American
                    travelers passing near a Potawatomi camp on the Iroquois River reported that they had been
                    intimidated by a group of warriors, settlers in the area asked the federal government for troops.27 Frontier newspapers printed dubious reports of Indian hostility,28 and farmers in the Illinois River Valley expressed plans to desert their
                    homes at the first sign of impending Indian trouble.29
            
            Governor Reynolds’ actions reflected his constituents’ alarm. Displeased that
                    members of the 
                        Prairie
                     Band were still occupying their former lands in 
                        Illinois
                    , Reynolds had earlier written to Secretary of War Lewis Cass and emphasized that the
                    citizens of Illinois wished to be rid of these Indians. He further stated: "I feel it my
                    duty to lay this subject before you and to observe that I will do all in my power to effect so
                    desirable an object."30
            
            Reynolds was true to his word. In December, 1832, reports reached him of alleged Potawatomi
                    depredations in central 
                        Illinois
                    . He dispatched a hand picked commission to investigate these charges with instructions
                    to meet the Indians. Not surprisingly the commission reported that 
                        Menacing attitudes and threats, repeatedly assumed and made by the Indians, have incited the
                            fears of the citizens. ... It is the opinion of reflecting men whom we consulted, and in
                            whose opinion we entirely concur, that unless suitable measures be taken to drive these
                            Indians to their own country, or to awe them into 
                        
                           25 "Report of the Commissioners who Negotiated the
                                    Miami and Pottawatomi Treaty, October, 1832," Berthrong Collection.
                        
                           26 Ninian Edwards to Elias Kane and I. M. Robinson, June 5,
                                    1832, quoted in Edwards, History of 
                                            Illinois
                                        
                           , 369–72.
                        
                           27 Nicholas Boulvire to Lewis Cass, December 10, 1833,
                                    Berthrong Collection.
                        
                           28 John Kinzie to Elbert Herring, March 22, 1833, Roll 696, "
                                        Prairie
                                     du Chien Agency, 1824–1833," National Archives
                                    Microcopy 234, "Letters Received by the Office of Indian Affairs,
                                    1824–1881," Records of the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
                        
                           29 William Clark to Lewis Cass, December 9, 1832, Berthrong
                                    Collection.
                        
                           30 John Reynolds to Lewis Cass, October 25, 1832, Roll 696, "
                                        Prairie
                                     du Chien Agency, 1824–1833," National Archives
                                    Microcopy 234, "Letters Received by the Office of Indian Affairs,
                                    1824–1881," Records of the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
                     
                             peaceful behavior, some seriously hostile steps toward
                            the whites, in the course of the present winter may be foreboded.31
                  
                    Reynolds followed the commission's recommendations. He quickly requested that a
                    detachment of 
                        United States
                     troops be sent to meet the Indians, urging the commander of these forces to give
                    "all the protection within your power" to the citizens of the area.32
            
            The appearance of troops only compounded the 
                        Prairie
                     Band's problems. As winter swept across the Old Northwest, the Indians found
                    themselves in dire straits. Increasing white settlement had greatly depleted the game supply, and
                    the 
                        Prairie
                     Band's cornfields had been burned by settlers during the Black Hawk War.
                    Facing starvation, and now threatened by a military force, a large group of 
                        Prairie
                     Potawatomi fled into Indiana. Led by their chief, Quiquito, these Indians arrived at
                    the Indian agency near 
                        Logansport
                     late in December.33 The Potawatomi remained at this location during
                    the rest of the winter. Indian Agent William Marshall supplied them with a small quantity of food
                    which they supplemented by hunting. Describing the Potawatomi as "very
                    industrious," Marshall reported that they were friendly and well received by the white
                    citizens of the area.34
            
            During the winter Quiquito informed Marshall that his followers were ready to move beyond the 
                        Mississippi
                    . He assured the agent that the 
                        Prairie
                     Band would be willing to leave as soon as the grass was high enough to sustain their
                    horses. The chief asked for an interpreter to accompany the Indians and for a few more horses with
                    which to make the journey.35 Marshall relayed this information to 
                        Washington
                     and the War Department promptly appointed Colonel Abel C. Pepper, an Indian agent
                    residing at Rising Sun, Indiana, to facilitate the removal. Pepper was instructed to proceed to 
                        Logansport
                     and to meet with the Potawatomi. There he was to assemble a deputation of not more than
                    seven Indians who would accompany him on an exploratory trip into the lands the federal government
                    had made available for Indian relocation. After his Indian deputation had selected their new home in
                    the West, Pepper was to return 
                  
                     31 Report of Samuel Whitesides, Hiram Curry, William Moore, and Thomas
                            Reynolds to Illinois Governor John Reynolds, December 13, 1832, copy, Berthrong Collection.
                  
                     32 John Reynolds to Major Henry S. Dodge, December 13, 1832, Evarts B.
                            Greene and Clarence W. Alvord, eds., The Governors’ Letter-Books,
                                1818–1834 (The Collections of the Illinois State Historical
                                Library, Vol. VI; 
                                Springfield
                            , 1909), 221.
                  
                     33 William Marshall to George B. Porter, February 25, 1833, Berthrong
                            Collection; Gurdon S. Hubbard to John 
                                Tipton
                            , January 27, 1833, Robertson and Riker, Tipton Papers, II,
                            792–93.
                  
                     34 William Marshall to George B. Porter, February 25, 1833, Berthrong
                            Collection. John Tipton was elected to the 
                                United States
                             Senate in 1831, and William Marshall was appointed to succeed Tipton as Indian
                            Agent in February, 1832. Marshall had earlier served as a 
                                United States
                             marshal in Indiana.
                  
                            35
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     with them to Indiana. He was then to supervise the removal of
                    the entire band to its new location.36
            
            Pepper arrived at 
                        Logansport
                     on April 11, 1833. He found that Quiquito's band was composed of 256 Indians
                    but that other Indians were also assembling at the agency.37 Many of the Wabash
                    Kickapoo had intermingled with the Potawatomi, and members of both tribes had accepted the faith of
                    the Kickapoo Prophet.38 The Kickapoo and Potawatomi from the Wabash Band began
                    to swell the ranks of the Indians awaiting removal. A group of sixty Wea living nearby also
                    expressed interest in the planned journey to the West. The Indian agency at 
                        Logansport
                     was rapidly expending its supplies; therefore, Pepper advised many of the Indians to
                    return to their hunting lands but to reassemble during the first week of June. The agent then wrote
                    to 
                        Washington
                     and requested that the government quickly provide the money and materials needed for
                    the 
                        Prairie
                     Potawatomi removal.39
            
            Officials in 
                        Washington
                     were favorably impressed with Pepper's request, but they were slow in
                    answering it. The commissary general of subsistence, General George Gibson, waited until May 28 to
                    appoint Lieutenant William R. Montgomery, who had acquired previous experience in financing Indian
                    removal in the South, as the federal disbursing agent for the removal. 
                        Montgomery
                    's orders, which provided $20,000 for removal expenses, did not
                    reach him until June 17; by June 20 he was on his way to Indiana.40
            
            Montgomery had hoped to be in 
                        Logansport
                     by July 1, 1833, but he became ill shortly after leaving 
                        Washington
                     and was forced to stop in 
                  Cumberland,
                            Maryland
               . After a convalescence of
                    several days he proceeded to 
                        Cincinnati
                     where he found no room on the stage to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He was forced to wait for a stage leaving later in the weeek and finally arrived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on July 14. In this city he was informed that Pepper had already left for the West with
                    the small deputation of 
                        Prairie
                     Potawatomi who were to select the 
                  
                     36 Lewis Cass to Abel C. Pepper, March 6, 1833, copy, ibid. Pepper, an active political supporter of the Democratic party in Indiana,
                            received the title of "Superintendent of Pottawatomi Emigration."
                  
                     37 Pepper to General George Gibson, April 11, 1833, ibid.
                  
                  
                     38 Clint Clay Tilton, "Gurdon Saltonstall Hubbard and Some of
                            His Friends," Illinois State Historical Society Transactions for the
                                Year 1938 (
                                Springfield
                            , 1933), XL, 130. Kannekuk or the Kickapoo Prophet was a Wabash Kickapoo who
                            originally lived near 
                        Danville, Illinois
                     . He formulated a new Indian
                            faith from various tenets and practices of Roman Catholicism, frontier Protestantism, and
                            native Indian religions. Utilizing carved wooden prayer sticks in place of a rosary, his
                            followers chanted oral prayers to the Great Spirit and abstained from alcoholic beverages.
                            One of George Catlin's paintings illustrates a Kickapoo warrior holding a prayer
                            stick.
                  
                     39 Pepper to General George Gibson, April 11, 1833, Berthrong
                            Collection.
                  
                     40 William R. Montgomery to Gibson, June 20, 1833; Acting Commissary
                            General of Subsistence J. H. Hook to 
                                Montgomery
                            , July 26, 1833, Senate Document 512, Correspondence on the Subject of the Emigration of Indians Between the 30th November,
                                1881, and 27th December, 1833, 23 Cong., 1 Sess. (1834), I, 774–75,
                        283.
               
                     Indians’ new lands. Without bothering to investigate
                    the situation at 
                  Logansport, Montgomery
                settled down in 
                        Indianapolis
                     to await Pepper's return.41
            
            While Montgomery was making his journey to Indiana, Pepper was assembling the 
                        Prairie
                     Potawatomi for removal. The War Department had appointed two Indiana citizens,
                    Rudolphus Schoon-over of 
                        Salem
                     and Colonel Lewis Sands of 
                        Greencastle
                    , to aid Pepper. They had arrived at 
                        Logansport
                     in the early summer and had helped Pepper supervise the growing community of
                        Indians.42
            
            The removal agents were ignorant of 
                        Montgomery
                    's late departure and erroneously expected him to arrive at 
                        Logansport
                     during the first week of June. They were dismayed when he did not appear. The
                    population of the removal camp had increased to approximately 400 Indians, and they were impatient
                    with the delay. As early as May 7 Pepper had written to General Gibson warning that the Potawatomi
                    were anxious to leave and stating that they threatened to go by themselves if the government did not
                    begin their removal by the middle of June.43 Quiquito's band had
                    received an invitation from the Kickapoo Prophet to settle among his followers.44 This band of Kickapoo had just acquired lands near Fort 
                        Leavenworth
                     and wanted other members of their religious faith to settle nearby.45 The invitation seemed to assure the 
                        Prairie
                     Band a warm reception in the West and accelerated their demands for prompt removal.
            Meanwhile, Pepper assembled four chiefs or headmen who wished to accompany him on his reconnaissance
                    of the lands in the West. Pepper had hoped to converse with the disbursing agent before he left on
                    his journey, but the agent's failure to appear and the growing restlessness of the
                    Potawatomi forced Pepper into action. On June 19, 1833, he reported to the War Department that
                    "If a disbursing agent does not reach this place within ten days, I shall deem it my duty
                    to start with the exploring party, and leave Colonel Sands and General Schoonover in charge of the
                    emigrating band, with instructions to await the arrival of the disbursing agent. ... "46 Eleven days later, on June 30, 1833, Pepper and the four Potawatomi left for
                    the West.47
            
            Pepper planned to cross the Mississippi at 
                        St. Louis
                    ; however, while crossing the Illinois prairies, his expedition was informed that a
                    cholera epidemic had broken out in 
                        Missouri
                    . On July 5, within fifteen miles of 
                        St. Louis
                    , his Indian companions refused to go any 
                  
                     41 Montgomery to Gibson, September 10, 1833, Berthrong Collection.
                  
                     42 Lewis Cass to Pepper, March 6, 1833, copy, ibid.
                  
                  
                     43 Pepper to Gibson, May 7, 1833, ibid.
                  
                  
                     44 Pepper to Gibson, May 25, 1833, Senate Document
                            512, I, 800.
                  
                     45 Arrell M. Gibson, The Kickapoos: Lords of the Middle
                                Border (
                                Norman
                            , 1963), 109–10.
                  
                     46 Pepper to Gibson, June 19, 1833, Senate Document
                            512, I, 801.
                  
                     47 Pepper to Gibson, August 12, 1833, Berthrong Collection.
               
                     further. After unsuccessfully attempting to persuade them to
                    enter the city, Pepper instructed them to remain in camp while he and an interpreter visited 
                        St. Louis
                    . He hoped that his safe return would allay their fears of contracting the disease, but
                    when he returned to camp, their desire to return to 
                        Logansport
                     had increased. His interpreter agreed with the Indians, and Pepper decided to return.
                    On July 7, 1833, the party started back to Indiana. In the afternoon of the same day Pepper
                    contracted "bilous fever" and was forced to send the Indians home alone. He
                    eventually returned to his residence in Indiana, where a relapse of his illness prevented him from
                    resuming his duties at 
                        Logansport
                    .48
            
            Before Pepper had left on this abortive venture, he had appointed Sands to supervise the removal.
                    Sands was to wait for the disbursing agent and then proceed with him and the Indians to the West. As
                    the days dragged into weeks and no evidence of the awaited departure was apparent, the Indians lost
                    their earlier fervor for removal. Food and provisions purchased by Pepper were gradually
                    diminishing, and some of the Indians began to wander away from 
                        Logansport
                    .49
            
            On July 4 another group of 
                        Prairie
                     Potawatomi straggled into the camp at 
                        Logansport
                    . Four days later Sands and Schoonover moved their tent into the Indian encampment,
                    hoping that their proximity would dissuade the tribesmen's dissatisfaction with continued
                    waiting. To conciliate the Indians extra provisions were purchased and distributed. Unfortunately
                    these actions did not achieve the desired purpose, for on Wednesday, July 10, approximately 200
                    Indians left the removal center and returned to their former homes. Six days later, after hearing
                    that the exploring party had encountered cholera near 
                        St. Louis
                    , thirty more Indians broke camp and moved away.50
            
            While the agents at 
                        Logansport
                     were striving to placate the Indians and to assure them of the federal
                    government's good intentions, Montgomery remained in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Local residents informed him that Indian Agent Marshall had recently passed through
                    their city and had stated that since some of the Indians had dispersed, the emigration had been
                    abandoned. Evidently believing such statements to be true, Montgomery decided to wait in 
                        Indianapolis
                     until he personally could discuss the situation with Marshall. He remained in the city
                    five days before encountering a traveler from the 
                        Logansport
                     area who indicated that Sands and a large number of Indians were still awaiting his
                    arrival. He then left for the removal camp.51
            
            Montgomery finally arrived at the Indian encampment on July 
                  
                            48
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     49 Lewis Sands to Gibson, June 26, 1833, ibid.
                  
                  
                     50 Lewis Sands, "Journal of Occurences [sic] In the Pottawatomie Removal under the Direction of Lewis Sands, Asst.
                            Agent.," ibid.
                  
                  
                     51 Sands to Pepper, July 25, 1833, copy, ibid.
                  
               
                     20, and a dispute soon arose between the disbursing agent and
                    Sands over who should assume control of the removal.52 At the start of his
                    journey to Indiana Montgomery had written to Gibson stating that he hoped Pepper was aware of the
                    extent of his authority "which some citizen agents are apt to suppose only limited by an
                    ill-regulated discretion."53 Accordingly, upon arrival, the disbursing
                    agent informed Sands that since Pepper was absent, he, 
                        Montgomery
                    , would assume authority over the emigration.54 Although the two men
                    finally agreed to cooperate, the continued friction was reflected in their correspondence to
                    superiors. In a letter to Pepper, Sands denounced Montgomery and adamantly stated: "Had
                    this officer been here when he was eating his 4 of July dinner in 
                        Cincinnati
                     or during the five days he spent in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the Emigrants would have been at least two hundred stronger."55
            
            By the last week of July there were only 145 Indians left at 
                        Logansport
                    .56 These tribesmen were composed primarily of the 
                        Prairie
                     Potawatomi who had fled Illinois with Quiquito. Montgomery spoke with their leaders and
                    denied their request for additional horses to use on the removal. He told them that they would be
                    transported in wagons and further admonished them to "banish every idea of
                    presents—that they had applied to go west, and that they would be transported there by
                    such means as the Government thought proper, and be supplied with sufficient provisions, and nothing
                        more."57 The Indians then asked him to include their former home on
                    the Iroquois River in the removal itinerary, stating that they had left certain personal possessions
                    there which they wished to take to their home in the West. Montgomery again gave them a negative
                    reply but promised that he would allow some of them to go to that location and retrieve all of their
                    belongings if they would then join the removal expedition near 
                  Danville, Illinois
               .58
            
            Early on Saturday morning, July 27, 1833, Sands loaded the remaining Indians into freight wagons and
                    prepared to start the journey to the West. Once again Montgomery was late. Sands and the Indians
                    waited throughout the morning and finally at 11:00 A. M. decided to leave without him.59 Montgomery overtook the party four miles west of its former camp. They stopped that
                    night thirteen miles from their starting point.60
            
            As the party passed through western Indiana, 
                        Montgomery
                    
                    
                  
                     52 Sands, "Journal of Occurences in the Pottawatomie
                            Removal," ibid.
                  
                  
                     53 Montgomery to Gibson, June 20, 1833, Senate
                            Document 512, I, 774–75.
                  
                     54 William R. Montgomery, "Lieut. W. R. Montgomery's
                            Journal during the Emigration of Pottawatomies in the Summer of 1833," Berthrong
                            Collection.
                  
                     55 Sands to Pepper, July 25, 1833, copy, ibid.
                  
                  
                     56 Sands to 
                                Montgomery
                            , July 22, 1833, Senate Document 512, I, 902–903.
                  
                     57 Montgomery to Gibson, July 27, 1833, ibid., 776.
                  
                     58
                            
                                Montgomery
                            , "
                                Montgomery
                            's Journal," Berthrong Collection.
                  
                     59 Sands, "Journal of Occurences in the Pottawatomie
                            Removal," ibid.
                  
                  
                     60
                            
                                Montgomery
                            , "
                                Montgomery
                            's Journal," ibid.
                  
               
                     complained that the Potawatomi were traveling too slowly.61 The Indians replied that their slow pace was caused by a lack of wagons in
                    which to transport their goods. Angered by 
                        Montgomery
                    's prodding, the Potawatomi forbade the disbursing agent to enter their part of
                    the nightly camp.62 On August 1, 1833, the expedition camped within one half
                    mile of 
                  Danville, Illinois
               . At this location the Indians expected to meet Schoonover and
                    approximately seventy Potawatomi who had gone to the Iroquois River to retrieve their personal
                    property. On July 25 Schoonover had left 
                        Logansport
                     with a handful of warriors who were to help him transport the Indians’
                    property to 
                        Danville
                    . Shortly thereafter a large group of Potawatomi defied 
                        Montgomery
                    's orders and followed Schoonover to the Iroquois. When the agent appeared at 
                        Danville
                    , however, only three Indians accompanied him; the rest of the group had remained on the
                    Iroquois River. Some of these 
                        Prairie
                     Potawatomi had become ill, and their friends stated that they would not join in the
                    removal until the sick Indians could travel. Evidently other motives also prompted this group of
                    Potawatomi to stay in 
                        Illinois
                    . Sands reported to Gibson that 
                        The treaty and payments come on at 
                                Chicago
                             in September. In the first instance, this band has an interest: they own
                            considerable land which is proposed to be bought at this treaty. In the second, they wish to
                            get their annuity before they go. All this has been made known to them by the traders and
                            others who wish this emigration to fail.63
                  
                    
            
            Much to 
                        Montgomery
                    's dismay Sands waited at 
                        Danville
                     for two and one half days, hoping that some of the Potawatomi on the Iroquois would
                    change their minds and return to the removal. Such waiting was in vain, and at noon on August 3,
                    1833, the party left its camp near 
                        Danville
                     and traveled southwestward across Illinois towards 
                        St. Louis
                    .64
            
            The expedition arrived at 
                  Alton, Illinois
               , on the east bank of the Mississippi River north of 
                        St. Louis
                     on August 13.65 Three days earlier, on August 10, Montgomery had
                    left the expedition and proceeded to 
                        St. Louis
                     to acquire steamboat accommodations to Fort 
                        Leavenworth
                    . He was successful in chartering the steamboat Otto for
                        $1,000.66 This boat was being repaired, but its captain assured
                    the disbursing agent that it would be serviceable by August 15. 
                  
                            61
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     62 Sands, "Journal of Occurences in the Pottawatomie
                            Removal," ibid.
                  
                  
                     63 Sands to Gibson, August 3, 1833, Senate Document
                            512, I, 896–97. The treaty negotiations at 
                                Chicago
                             are discussed in Foreman, The Last Trek of the Indians,
                            103–105; and in Anselm J. Gerwing, "The 
                                Chicago
                             Indian Treaty of 1833," Journal of the Illinois State
                                Historical Society, LVII (Summer, 1964), 117–43.
                  
                     64
                            
                                Montgomery
                            , "
                                Montgomery
                            's Journal," Berthrong Collection.
                  
                     65 Sands, "Journal of Occurences in the Pottawatomie
                            Removal," ibid.
                  
                  
                     66 Montgomery to Gibson, August 15, 1833, ibid.
                  
               
                     Montgomery therefore contacted Sands and instructed him to
                    assemble the Indians on the river wharf at 
                        Alton
                     on the afternoon of the appointed day.67
            
            Following 
                        Montgomery
                    's instructions, Sands mustered the Potawatomi on the wharf and waited
                    throughout the afternoon of August 15. The steamboat failed to appear. In the evening the Indians
                    carried their baggage and led their horses back to camp. The boat did not arrive during the
                    following day, and the camp retired for the night. Finally, late on the evening of August 16, the
                    steamboat landed at 
                        Alton
                    ; and in the early morning darkness the Indians, agents, horses, and luggage were loaded
                    aboard. On August 17, 1833, the Otto set out for Fort 
                        Leavenworth
                    .68 The voyage from 
                        Alton
                     to Fort 
                        Leavenworth
                     proceeded without difficulty. Although several of the agents on board contracted a
                    fever, the Indians remained healthy and evidently enjoyed their excursion. The steamboat arrived at
                    its destination on the evening of August 24, and the Potawatomi were unloaded on the following
                        morning.69
            
            Among the tribesmen who finally completed the removal to Fort 
                        Leavenworth
                     were many members of Quiquito's band. The large number of Indians who had
                    originally assembled near 
                        Logansport
                     had gradually wandered away. From the agents’ reports, which listed the
                    number of Indians leaving the camp before removal, it would seem that during June, 1833, there were
                    at least 400 Indians in the camp in Indiana.70 Of this number, only sixty-seven
                    tribesmen completed the removal.71
            
            Both Sands and Montgomery realized that the removal had met with only limited success, and both
                    attempted to blame the other for the small number of Indians that eventually arrived at Fort 
                        Leavenworth
                    . Sands charged that 
                        Montgomery
                    's late arrival at 
                        Logansport
                     and his subsequent relations with the Indians alienated the Potawatomi and caused them
                    to desert the removal.72 Montgomery replied that Sands and other local officials
                    were uncooperative. He also insisted that the majority of the Indians actually did not want to leave
                    Illinois and Indiana and that local traders and others who could exploit the Indians counseled the
                    tribesmen against removal.73
            
            Regardless of blame, the removal of the 
                        Prairie
                     Potawatomi 
                  
                     67 Sands, "Journal of Occurences in the Pottawatomie
                            Removal," ibid.
                  
                  
                            68
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                            69
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     70 This figure is calculated from statements found in Sands,
                            "Journal of Occurences in the Pottawatomie Removal" and from information
                            in a letter by Sands to Gibson, June 26, 1833. All this material is in the Berthrong
                            Collection.
                  
                     71 "Muster Role of a Company of Potowomy Indians Emigrated
                            West of the Mississippi under the direction of Col. Sands and now on the Kickapoo Land west
                            of the state of Missouri and near Port 
                                Leavenworth
                             as taken in the Quarter Ending the 30th day of June," ibid.
                  
                  
                     72 Sands to Gibson, September 4, 1833, ibid.
                  
                  
                     73 Montgomery to Gibson, September 10, 1833, ibid.
                  
               
                     during 1833 was characteristic of various Indian removals
                    during this period. Plagued by poor planning and inefficiency, these forced migrations are studies
                    in misadministration and failure. Several factors combined to cause the failure of this specific
                    venture. Pepper's promises to the Indians that they would be removed during the first week
                    in June may have been sincere, but he could not guarantee that such pledges would be honored. When
                    the removal was not initiated at that time, the 
                        Prairie
                     Potawatomi became increasingly restless and dissatisfied with remaining in the removal
                    camp. The failure of the government to respond promptly to Pepper's request to prepare for
                    the removal added to the difficulties. Montgomery was not appointed as the federal disbursing agent
                    until May 28, and his orders did not reach him until June 17, over two weeks after the Indians
                    expected to start their journey. Therefore, 
                        Montgomery
                    's late arrival at 
                        Logansport
                     caused many Indians who had earlier been interested in removal to change their minds
                    and desert the debarkation camp. Undoubtedly some would have reneged upon their earlier promises to
                    remove beyond the Mississippi even if the disbursing agent had arrived in June, but his late
                    appearance facilitated discontent and allowed the tribesmen ample time to reconsider their decision.
                    Obviously, 
                        Montgomery
                    's delayed arrival was not entirely his fault, for his late orders were
                    compounded by illness and transportation difficulties over which he had little control. Yet his
                    acceptance of hearsay evidence that the removal had been abandoned and his subsequent five day
                    sojourn in 
                        Indianapolis
                     added to his late arrival and caused even more Indians to leave the removal camp. The
                    exploring party's encounter with cholera also was detrimental to the 
                        Prairie
                     Potawatomi removal, and Pepper's attempt to minimize the seriousness of the
                    epidemic was not sustained by his sudden illness upon his return from 
                        St. Louis
                    . Finally, the 
                        Prairie
                     Potawatomi had been promised cash and trade goods at 
                        Chicago
                     in the autumn of 1833; the federal government had also announced that it wished to
                    secure the remaining Potawatomi lands in Illinois at that time, and many of the Indians were
                    unquestionably anxious to participate in this new treaty. Although Montgomery assured the 
                        Prairie
                     Band that they would receive their share of all money and goods distributed at 
                        Chicago
                     after the Indians arrived in 
                        Kansas
                    , his late arrival and denial of Indian requests did not contribute to their opinion of
                    his veracity. Therefore, the Indians who had accompanied Schoonover to the Iroquois River stayed to
                    await events at 
                        Chicago
                    . Many of these Potawatomi took part in the treaty proceedings at that location during
                    the autumn of 1833. They were finally removed beyond the Mississippi five years later.74
            
            
               
                  74 Gerwing, "The 
                            Chicago
                         Indian Treaty of 1833," discusses this treaty in detail.
                        Foreman's The Last Trek of the Indians includes a chapter on
                        Potawatomi removal.
            
         
         
         
            Cornelius O'Brien Lecture Series Concerning Historic Preservation in Indiana
            From its initial appointment by President Herman B Wells in 1969 the Indiana University Committee on
                    Historic Preservation has devoted its efforts to fostering educational programs concerning historic
                    preservation within the Hoosier State. Three annual preservation conferences have been held, and a
                    fourth will meet at 
                        Bloomington
                     on September 29–30, 1972. After sponsoring tours of homes and other
                    buildings in or near 
                        Bloomington
                     in connection with the two initial conferences, the committee conducted a separate two
                    day tour of historic structures and sites in 
                        Evansville
                     and vicinity on April 22–23, 1972, in cooperation with a local committee. A
                    similar two day tour of some portion of northern Indiana is planned for the spring of 1973. These
                    and related efforts have been very favorably received, and they have both directly and indirectly
                    made significant contributions to historic preservation within Indiana.
            A most promising addition to the efforts of the Indiana University Committee on Historic Preservation
                    has recently been announced by its chairman, Dean Eunice C. Roberts. Through a grant received from
                    Mrs. John Timberlake Gibson and her mother, Mrs. Cornelius O'Brien, a lecture series
                    concerning historic preservation in Indiana has been estabished in honor of Cornelius
                    O'Brien (1883–1953) who contributed substantial and devoted service to historic
                    programs and the preservation movement within Indiana. A successful farmer, banker, and
                    manufacturer, Mr. O'Brien was long an active member of the Indiana Historical Society,
                    serving on its executive board and as one of its vice presidents. He was also a member of the
                    Indiana State Library and Historical Board and of the Purdue University Board of Trustees. Mr.
                    O'Brien was a pioneer in historic preservation in Indiana, and his efforts in this field
                    were directed especially toward restoration of a portion of the Whitewater Canal and preservation of
                    Veraestau, the family home overlooking the Ohio River near 
                        Aurora
                    . Cornelius O'Brien was a delegate to both state and national conventions of
                    the Democratic party, becoming its nominee for the 
                        United States
                     Senate in 1944.
            Veraestau, with its commanding and scenic view of the Ohio River, had its
                    beginnings in territorial days as the combination log cabin-brick residence of Jesse L. Holman, one
                    of the leading political figures of pioneer Indiana. William Steele Holman, a son who served as 
                        United States
                     congressman from Indiana for three decades, was born in this house. The log cabin
                    portion of Veraestau burned in the 1830s; following the fire Allen 
                        Hamilton
                    , son-in-law of Wiliam Steele 
                    
                  CORNELIUS O'BRIEN. Courtesy Mrs. John T.
                            Gibson.
               
                     Holman, added a Greek Revival structure to the original brick
                    portion. Further additions have been made to Veraestau during this century, including a brick
                    extension by Cornelius O'Brien in the late 1930s. Veraestau is an excellent and well
                    preserved example of an Indiana house which had humble beginnings in the pioneer era, then with
                    additions from period to period developed into a large and attractive home. It is certainly one of
                    the oldest, if not the oldest, such structure surviving in the state; and the prominence of its
                    residents and visitors in state and national life for more than a century and a half has made it one
                    of the outstanding houses of Indiana in terms of its historic associations.
            The initial presentation of the Cornelius O'Brien Lecture Series will be given at 
                        Bloomington
                     on the evening of September 29, 1972, as a featured part of Indiana
                    University's fourth annual historic preservation conference. The speaker will be James L.
                    Cogar of Shakertown, 
                        Kentucky
                    , who will give an illustrated discussion of the restoration of the Shaker community
                    there. Two additional lectures are tentatively planned for other places in Indiana during the
                    academic year 1972–1973. The lecturers will be persons who are nationally recognized for
                    their experience and competence in one or more fields of historic preservation. The Cornelius
                    O'Brien Lecture Series Concerning Historic Preservation in Indiana will thus be a
                    continuing memorial to an outstanding Hoosier who achieved a significant niche in the economic and
                    political life of his native state and who made important contributions to historic programs and the
                    advancement of the preservation movement.
         
         
         
            Conference on Historic Preservation
            The Fourth Annual Conference on Historic Preservation in Indiana will be held on the Indiana
                    University campus at 
                        Bloomington
                    , Friday and Saturday, September 29–30, 1972. Although the program will be
                    varied, it will emphasize historic preservation in the field of transportation. Case studies will be
                    presented concerning preservation of the Union Station at 
                        Indianapolis
                     and a segment of the Wabash and 
                        Erie
                     Canal. Consideration will also be given to Indiana's covered bridges and to
                    the continued restoration of a portion of the Whitewater Canal at and near Metamora. Indiana
                    railroads and Howard steamboats and Ohio River transportation will also be
                    featured. Group discussion sessions will develop and promote an exchange of ideas and information
                    about preservation of archives, museum exhibit techniques, and local planning for the American
                    Revolution Bicentennial observance.
            The featured address of the conference will be delivered Friday evening by James L. Cogar, formerly
                    of Colonial 
                        Williamsburg
                     and now president of the Shakertown Restoration at Pleasant Hill, 
                        Kentucky
                    . Mr. Cogar will give an illustrated presentation entitled "Shakertown and Its
                    Restoration," which will be the initial address in the newly established Cornelius
                    O'Brien Lecture Series on Historic Preservation in Indiana.
            For those arriving on Thursday evening in advance of the regular conference program, an informal
                    reception and film festival will be offered at the Glenn A. Black Laboratory of Archaeology.
                    Registration for the conference will begin on Friday morning. Persons wanting a copy of the final
                    conference program and information about reservations and housing should send complete mailing
                    addresses to Dean Eunice Roberts, Chairman, Committee on Historic Preservation, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana 47401. Reservations should be made as early as possible and definitely in
                    advance of the conference.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Indian Oratory: Famous Speeches by Noted Indian Chiftains. By W. C. Vanderwerth.
                    Forward by William R. Carmack. (
                        Norman
                    : University of Oklahoma Press, 1971. Pp. xviii, 292. Notes, illustrations, appendix,
                    bibliography. $8.95.)
            W. C. Vanderwerth has compiled speeches made by thirty-seven well known Indian chiefs whose words
                    were recroded at significant counciles or momentours occasions. He gives a breif biography of each
                    man and an equally brief explanation of the occasion for the speech. The arrangement in
                    chronological, extending from Teedyuscung's oration at 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1758 to three short speeches by Quanah Parker in 1910. An appendix adds the full
                    speech of Nez Perc Chief Joseph as reported in the North Amerian Review of April,
                    1879.
            A breif forward by Willam R. Carmack describes the importance of Indian oral tradition in Amerindian
                    history. Vanderwerth has wisely confined his examples to confrom to the title of the book. He no
                    doubt was tempted to include many other speeches solely because of their Indian wit, pathos, or
                    careful rationalism, but which would have obscured the theme of his book.
            Indian oratory was a long established and much practiced art, but it owed much to the personal
                    accomplishments and the impressive delivery of its speakers, who were notable chiefs. Even the most
                    skilled interpreters and secretaries could only imply the chief's personal qualities in the
                    written reports. It is fourtunate that these recorders could convey the nuances of Indian thought
                    and expression as well as they dit since speakers obscured as well as emphasized their messagges by
                    elaborate figures of speech.
            By using a chronological presentation the author shows Indian recognition of a decline from equality
                    to an inferior and hopeless condition. Tecumseh's inspiring appeal for war in 1763 and his
                    acknolwedgement of defeat in 1765 indicate the change in the plight of one chief. Later speeches
                    show pathetic acceptance of the futility of resistance. The Indiana's position is
                    emphasized by the author's unavoidable use of orations given after concessions or defeats.
            A more exciting view of Indian oratory and imagery would have been presented if Vanderwerth could
                    have assembled speeches made in the deliberative councils which preceded majr decisions. Most of the
                    speeches which are included represent conclusive decisions and do not hint of the dissent or
                    compromise which preceded them. Such oratory is more reasoned, the product of interchanging opinions
                    of  many men, but the reviewer regrets the absence of dissenting
                    speeches by younger men. Of course, government officers and interpreters could not have witnessed
                    such councils, but the author has tried to fill this void by giving Tecumseh's speech to
                    the Choctaws and Chicka-saws in 1811 and Kicking Bear's to the Sioux in 1890.
            The author has added a useful collection to the growing body of authentic Indian history. He has
                    supplied useful background material, and the portraits of these grim orators tell much of lives
                    which led them to positions of leadership. The bibliography is varied and useful, and the University
                    of Oklahoma Press has achieved its customary excellence in editing and printing.
            
                    Ball State University, 
                            Muncie
                        
               
                
            Bert Anson
         
         
            
               Architecture of the Western Reserve, 1800–1900. By Richard N. Campen. (
                        Cleveland
                    : The Press of Case Western Reserve University, 1971. Pp. xii, 260. Illustrations,
                    notes, bibliography, index. $20.00.)
            The author is a well qualified architectural historian and photographer; he was a founder and first
                    president of the Western Reserve Architectural Historians, a chapter of the Society of Architectural
                    Historians. Campen traces the eastern historical concepts that had a considerable influence on Ohio
                    designers and builders and their solutions for residences and commercial, civic, and religious
                    buildings.
            The volume is illustrated with over 400 photographs; their quality ranges from good to excellent. The
                    photographs vividly show the variety of styles, richness of texture, and numerous forms that
                    resulted in a rich regional expression. The captions and text are clear, concise, and informative.
            The visual and written material is organized geographically by county. Each chapter has a brief
                    historical introduction which is most helpful in giving the reader a good background on the
                    development and evolution of the architecture from local indigenous concepts to the late nineteenth
                    century expressions in the Western Reserve.
            The glossary is commendable. It is well illustrated and should be most helpful in assisting a lay
                    reader to a much better understanding of architectural terms and forms.
            The volume is a welcome and commendable addition to the increasing number of excellent regional
                    publications on midwestern architectural history.
            
                    Ball State University, 
                            Muncie
                        
               
                
            David R. Hermansen
         
         
         
            
               The Papers of Jefferson Davis. Volume I, 1808–1840.
                    Edited by Haskell M. Monroe, Jr., and James T Mcintosh. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : Louisiana State University Press, 1971. Pp. xci, 594. Illustrations, notes,
                    appendices, list of sources, index. $15.00.)
            For several decades after the Civil War Jefferson Davis’ role as president of the
                    Confederate States of America overshadowed his long career as officer in the 
                        United States
                     Army, congressman from 
                  Mississippi,
                            United States
                senator, and Cabinet member. To most
                    Americans he was either a traitor to the Union or the heroic leader of a lost cause. Now there is a
                    growing tendency to lay aside prejudice and polemic and look at Davis as he was. To that end Rice
                    University and the Jefferson Davis Association have launched this monumental project which is
                    intended to be the definitive edition of papers related to Davis’ life and work. Monroe
                    and Mcintosh, who have already labored about a decade, expect to produce twenty or more volumes.
            The editors intend "to provide sufficient background material to enable the reader to make
                    his own appraisal of the man and his age" (p. xi). They have therefore included not only
                    substantive letters, both public and private, by Davis and to him, but also routine official
                    correspondence and records of his military assignments and activities. All dated items are arranged
                    in chronological order, and explanatory footnotes, which shed much light on the documents, are both
                    abundant and factual. Every name that appears in the text is accompanied at first mention by a
                    biographical note explaining the person's relation to Davis; subsequent appearances are
                    cross referenced to these notes. There are two autobiographical sketches of Davis, a chronology of
                    his life, and a Davis family genealogy. The list of sources includes those used in annotation as
                    well as the location of all documents reproduced in this volume. The index is detailed and appears
                    to be accurate.
            It was time for a new edition of Davis papers. Nearly fifty years have passed since the Mississippi
                    Department of Archives and History published Dunbar Rowland's ten volume compilation, Jefferson Davis, Constitutionalist: His Letters, Papers & Speeches. Since
                    1923 additional Davis materials have been discovered, and the current project is more broadly
                    conceived than Rowland's. His work, for example, contains only three items dated prior to
                    1840; Monroe and Mcintosh have included 530 entries from those early years. Hudson Strode in Jefferson Davis: Private Letters, 1823–1889 (1966) presents an
                    interesting personal portrait of Davis but touches his public life only incidentally.
            The editors and publishers of this book are to be congratulated on a work well conceived and
                    skillfully executed. Those interested in  Jefferson Davis and
                    his role in the nation's history will long be indebted to them.
            
                    Indiana Central College, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
                
            Frederick D. Hill
         
         
            
               Travels between the Hudson & the 
                            Mississippi
                        , 1851–1852. By Moritz Busch. Translated and edited by N#2 H.
                    Binger. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1971. Pp. xix, 295. Notes, editor's notes. $12.50.)
            The book was written by Moritz Busch in 1851 and 1852 as a diary or journal of a trip to the 
                        United States
                    . Its publication in 1854 started Busch on a literary career that lasted more than forty
                    years. It is obvious that publication was a primary consideration in the writing of this journal.
                    The author writes consistently of the popular or spectacular and frequently borrows lengthy
                    descriptions and passages on subjects he has decided to include but which he has not observed or
                    knows little about. His work is entitled "Travels," but it could easily serve as a
                    guide book or a complete account to encourage others to come to the area discussed.
            The original text in 
                        German
                     was 772 pages. This volume of about 280 pages of text profited from needed and skillful
                    editing and deletions in the chapters included. The major deletion, however, was the complete
                    omission of nine of the eighteen chapters. These are briefly summarized in the introduction and
                    reveal that the editor narrowed or sharpened the meaning of the title. He deletes seven chapters
                    dealing with 
                        New York City
                     and the voyage to America and deals more specifically with the area from the Hudson to
                    the 
                        Mississippi
                    . Two chapters omitted could well have fitted into the limited interpretation of the
                    title. These are "The Saints of the Latter-Day" and "Thirteen Songs and a
                    Portrait of American Negroes." The editor explains their omission in relation to the
                    paucity of first hand observations used by the author. Deletion of the chapter on the Mormons both
                    in this context and because of Busch's practice of writing on topics of particular interest
                    to his audience is understandable. The omission of the chapter on the black man considering the
                    present widespread popular interest in additional interpretations of black history and in light of
                    Busch's personal visit to an African Methodist church in 
                        Cincinnati
                     is less easy to understand.
            The topics with which the author deals are numerous, and most readers will find several that will be
                    of particular interest. Busch treats modes of travel by canal, train, steamboat, stagecoach,
                    horseback and on foot, and his descriptions are interesting. The author's continuing
                    contact with and attention to recent immigrants to the 
                        United States
                    , most of them like the author participants in the European  revolutions of 1848 and 1849, will also appeal to many readers. Busch
                    had been a theological student, and he had special interest in and was amazed by the religious
                    practices and customs he found in America. His observations of unusual groups such as the Shakers
                    are interesting, but equally significant are his descriptions and evaluations of more traditional
                    religious groups. In particular, Busch's evaluations of the 
                        German
                     Protestant churches in 
                        Cincinnati
                     read as if they were written by one expert in and concerned about such groups. His
                    concern with land values and agricultural production frequently made this reader wonder if he were
                    actively seeking a place to locate or simply adding another dimension to his account. People
                    concerned about special locations will find a good deal about 
                        Cincinnati
                    , a substantial amount about 
                        St. Louis
                    , and interesting descriptions of a number of western Ohio and Kentucky areas.
            Professor Binger has translated well, and his introduction and notes succinctly explain the reason
                    for the book. The fact that no publisher or editor felt compelled to offer an English translation in
                    almost 120 years sets a dimension of the limitations on the book's significance. However,
                    its appearance in English now should be welcomed by a number of audiences interested in the area
                    dealt with and in the impressions of European visitors to the pre-Civil War 
                        United States
                    . The University Press of Kentucky as publisher and Binger as editor-translator have
                    provided an attractive and readable version and are to be commended. The price on a volume of modest
                    size without visible features to increase unduly manufacturing costs bears unhappy testimony to the
                    escalation of book prices in the present inflationary society.
            
                    University of 
                     Cincinnati, Cincinnati
                  
               
                
            William D. Aeschbacher
         
         
            
               The Spiritual Crisis of the Gilded Age. By Paul A. Carter. (
                        DeKalb
                    : Northern Illinois University Press, 1971. Pp. xiii, 295. Illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $8.50.)
            Paul Carter's study is crowded with a fascinating assemblage of American
                    "Victorians" representing a variety of religious viewpoints. The result is a
                    composite picture of the faith and the doubt of the Victorian age in America set within a wide
                    framework embracing such divergent figures as Robert Ingersoll and Samuel Clemens, critics of
                    traditional religion; Isaac Mayer Wise and 
                        Washington
                     Gladden, modernizers of traditions; Lew Wallace and Henry Ward Beecher, popularizers of
                    unique brands of spirituality; and Andrew 
                        Jackson
                     Davis and Charles Taze Russell, prophets of Spiritualism and the Jehovah's
                    Witnesses respectively. The religious situation during the Gilded Age was complex: faith and
                    unbelief locked in conflict.
            
            The spiritual crisis among Americans between 1865 and 1895 was a reflection of the larger situation
                    in western Christendom at the time. Science and scientism shook the foundations of the religious
                    establishments; indifference and a growing distaste for supernaturalism gnawed on the churches from
                    within. Open opposition to religion was on the rise. Yet in America agnosticism must be placed in
                    its proper perspective, alongside the Sunday evening hymn singing in the White House led by 
                        Rutherford
                     and Lucy Hayes and alongside the revivalistic successes of Dwight L. Moody in the
                    cities. The Gilded Age of America was a time of religious revival as well as decay, a paradoxical
                    age indeed.
            The principal religious issues spanned a wide spectrum. With respect to the origin of man, for
                    example, was it to be God, a gorilla, or something in between? As for man himself, was he
                    animal, spiritual, or divine? What vision of the afterlife or immortality could American
                    Victorians salvage? With social ills apparent to all—poverty, slums, labor
                    unrest, glaring inequality of opportunity—how should the churches respond? In
                    a moment of duress for all faiths in what manner ought religious people regard each
                    other? To these and other questions many different answers were given. Carter, however,
                    has done a commendable job of sorting the questions and the answers.
            The virtues of this volume are obvious. It is useful that Carter has not confined his perspective to
                    mainstream Protestantism but rather shows all religions encountering similar problems at the end of
                    the last century. Sectarian groups, ethnic churches, and Judaism are too often blocked out of view
                    in the more usual Protestant oriented religious historiography of America. This work will appeal to
                    a wide circle of scholarship because it is not presented as historical theology but as intellectual
                    history. In it abstractions fade, and the characters who peopled the churches or ranted against them
                    take flesh and blood. Well chosen illustrations add another delightful note, as do the extensive
                    annotation and bibliography in the text. This reviewer predicts that what has been said about
                    traditional dogmas in the Gilded Age—they "fade away because they are
                    neglected" (p. 125)—will not be true of this book.
            
                    Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
                
            Stephen J. Stein
         
         
            
               The Blacks in 
                            Canada
                        : A History. By Robin W. Winks. (
                        New Haven
                    : Yale University Press, with McGill-Queen's University Press, 
                        Montreal
                    , 1971. Pp. xvii, 546. Maps, notes, appendix, note on sources, index.
                    $15.00.)
            This work breaks new ground with a thoroughness found in very 
                    few scholarly monographs. The heritage of Negro slavery in 
                        Canada
                     is traced from the period of New 
                        France
                     and the aftermath of British rule following the decision of 1763. Although popular
                    accounts and legend minimize and sometimes attempt to obliterate this part of the history of slavery
                    in North America, Professor Winks proves its existence. At the same time he places it in the
                    perspective of a severely restricted and never widely practiced institution.
            Slavery was legal in 
                        Canada
                     until 1834 when an act of Parliament abolished it throughout the empire. Most of the
                    black people of 
                        Canada
                     are not descendants of these original slaves. Some came as volunteers for the Loyalist
                    side in the American Revolution or as slaves captured and freed during the same struggle. Others
                    arrived in similar circumstances during the War of 1812. There were maroons from 
                        Jamaica
                     involuntarily exiled to 
                        Canada
                    , thousands of fugitive slaves from the southern 
                        United States
                    , and later immigrants from the 
                        United States
                     and the West Indies. The various migrations settled in widely scattered places and
                    always provided a very small element in a mosaic of population groups. A short appendix on the black
                    population in 
                        Canada
                     points out the difficulty of locating reliable statistics and concludes that at no time
                    did black people form more than 2 or 2.5 per cent of the total population.
            Nevertheless, these people suffered under oppressive and discriminatory practices which often
                    resembled those of the 
                        United States
                     and which included a pattern of segregated churches, schools, and housing and a social
                    system based upon white superiority. Canadian blacks confronted a variety of bigoted practices which
                    on occasion found political expression. Even the Ku Klux Klan had its Canadian followers. Canadians
                    sometimes overlook these matters and point to the absence of a legal basis for discrimination,
                    though even this was somewhat negated by an immigration policy which restricted blacks.
            Black Canadians were slow to rally forces to fight for their rights. They were few in number, highly
                    scattered, and of varying backgrounds, and their own institutions tended to encourage cooperation
                    rather than confrontation with the white majority. The Canadian churches which served the black
                    people emphasized virtuous living for the afterlife; their schools emphasized preparation for manual
                    labor along the lines suggested by Booker T. Washington. In recent years, however, some of the more
                    militant voices from the 
                        United States
                     and other countries have had an audience among Canadian black youth. Yet, compared with
                    the rush of events in the black community of the 
                        United States
                    , Canadians seem more moderate and more resigned to accepting a status assigned to them
                    by the white society.
            
            A short review can only hint at the significance of this volume and the wealth of information it
                    contains. All the major themes of the subject are covered, and the interpretive sections will
                    undoubtedly provide a great deal of material for future research and discussion. The book is based
                    on study of a mass of manuscript material as well as newspapers, printed sources, and interviews.
                    Because of its thoroughness it is not an easy book to read, but it is certainly required for any
                    student of the history of black people in North America as well as students of Canadian-
                        United States
                     relations.
            
                    
                  
                            Wilmington
                         College, 
                     Wilmington, Ohio
                  
               
                
            Larry Gara
         
         
            
               The White Response to Black Emancipation: Second-Class Citizenship in the 
                            United States
                         Since Reconstruction. By Sig Synnestvedt. (
                        New York
                    : The Macmillan Company, 1972. Pp. vii, 248. Notes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    Paperbound, $3.95.)
            In the introduction to this book the author, who is a white professor teaching at a school with a
                    predominantly white student body, tells the reader that, to meet the needs of his students, he
                    decided not to try to teach a course in "Negro history" but instead to teach a
                    course on "‘white history’ with emphasis upon the means by which
                    whites in America have imposed second-class citizenship upon their black fellow citizens"
                    (p. 3). The book under review is an outgrowth of this course. In it Synnestvedt addresses himself to
                    what he calls the "greatest social need in America today"—the
                    reeducation of whites of all ages to a recognition of the realities of the racial record in the 
                        United States
                    . His point of view is summed up in James Weldon Johnson's comment:
                    "The race question involves the saving of black America's body and white
                    America's soul" (p. 6). More recently a black sergeant with the 
                        United States
                     forces in 
                        Germany
                    , who was being interrogated about racial incidents, expressed the same view when he
                    replied: "What's the problem? What's the problem?
                    Hell ... [the white man] knows the problem. He is the problem!" (p. 212).
            The book does not represent original research but is a summary and synthesis of developments since
                    Reconstruction. It deals with such topics as legalized segregation and disfranchisement, lynching,
                    internal migration, the origins of the northern ghetto, the activities of the modern Ku Klux Klan,
                    racism in World War I and World War II, and the Equal Rights Revolution of the 1950s and 1960s. It
                    covers some of the same material as August Meier and Elliott M. Rudwick's From
                        Plantation to Ghetto (1966), John Hope 
                        Franklin
                    's From Slavery to Freedom (1947), and other textbooks; but
                    the emphasis is on  the role of whites, especially white racism.
                    There are some factual errors. A conspicuous example is an incident in 
                        Chicago
                     in 1916 in which Synnestvedt pictures Paul Lawrence Dunbar (who died in 1906) as the
                    victim of white harassment when he moved into a white neighborhood. This is a badly garbled version
                    of an incident described by Arna Bontemps and Jack Conroy as having happened to a man who was an
                    admirer of Dunbar's poems.
            Synnestvedt makes no pretense of objectivity. He writes with the purpose of not merely informing but
                    of arousing the conscience of white Americans. Students and the general reader should find the book
                    provocative. There is a useful bibliographical essay. One hopes that the book will contribute to
                    achieving the objective for which it was written.
            
                    
                  
                            Butler
                         University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
                
            Emma Lou Thornbrough
         
         
            
               How the U. S. Cavalry Saved Our National Parks. By H. Duane Hampton. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1971. Pp. 246. Illustrations, map, bibliography, notes,
                    index. $8.95.)
            Coupled together, cavalry and national parks are today contradictory, almost like mixing napalm and
                    chaparral. Yet the contemporary, peace loving ecologist who reads H. Duane Hampton's able
                    study will find that it was indeed the disciplined policing by the 
                        United States
                     cavalry which saved what are today the Yosemite, Sequoia, and General Grant parks.
                    Certainly the pollution conscious contemporary will be surprised at how genuine was the threat of
                    rubbish accumulation, extinction of wild life, and sheer vandalism that occurred in these
                    sanctuaries before the military moved in.
            Yellowstone has just celebrated its centennial as America's first national park. In 1872
                    this 
                        Wyoming
                     wonderland had not long enjoyed such status before a 
                        United States
                     army officer reported: "The ornamental work about the crater and the pools had
                    been broken and defaced in the most prominent places ... The visitors prowled about with shovel and
                    ax, chopping and hacking and prying up great pieces ..." (pp. 40–41). By the
                    early 1880s the westward push of the Northern Pacific Railroad swelled the ever mounting number of
                    Yellowstone tourists. The resultant pillage and wanton contempt for nature horrified General Philip
                    Sheridan and others who cared. By 1886 the 
                        United States
                     cavalry found itself assigned the policeman's role. As had been the
                    army's fate before, this duty fell to the military because of congressional parsimony and
                    because no other branch of the government could do the job. The army did not retire from this duty
                    until 1918; at that time civilian hands, today's National  Park Service, assumed the reins of responsibility. Naturalist John Muir
                    summed up the army's service: "Blessings on Uncle Sam's soldiers. They
                    have done the job well, and every pine tree is waving its arms for joy" (p. 190).
            Historian Hampton has carefully researched and written a piece of western history which has
                    heretofore been overlooked. Whenever today's social or natural scientist reports on
                    America's ecological past, historical objectivity is frequently flawed by the
                    author's intense feelings about the environmental crisis. Happily Hampton's
                    narrative is no polemic. Some will wish he had given more attention to the Gilded Age matrix that
                    first preserved Yellowstone and its California counterparts and then so callously threatened them.
                    An extensive and accurate bibliography will provide help for those wanting to study this aspect of
                    the subject further.
            In his epilogue Hampton is not afraid to remind his readers that the struggle to preserve the
                    wilderness remains; in truth, the odds in the environmental battle may have worsened. "The
                    future of conservation may be in greater danger today than it was then. For now, the interested
                    public risks being lulled into complacency by reassuring statements from the White House, the
                    Secretary of the Interior, and major industrial concerns ... and the ever-present personal greed of
                    individuals all point[s] toward more and larger threats to the existence of an inviolate National
                    Park system" (p. 188). Given this reviewer's pessimism, one must wonder not if,
                    but when, the military will be required to return to the duty it left in 1918.
            
                    California State University, San Jose
                
            Ted C. Hinckley
         
         
            
               Railroads and the Granger Laws. By George H. Miller. (
                        Madison
                    : The University of Wisconsin Press, 1971. Pp. xi, 296. Maps, notes, table of cases,
                    bibliographical essay, index. $12.50.)
            Arguing that the impact of the rise of the interstate railroad system in the antebellum political
                    economy is best understood through a study of the Granger laws, Miller focuses upon the
                    politico-legal history of the enactment of these regulatory measures in the upper Mississippi Valley
                    between 1871 and 1874. Drawing upon the massive amount of secondary information already available,
                    coupled with extensive utilization of primary sources such as the papers and reports of various
                    interest groups, state and railroad archives, and local newspapers, the author has produced an
                    impressively documented, solid, scholarly study.
            As a result of an in depth analysis of the Granger agitation and legislation in 
                  Illinois, Iowa,
                            Minnesota
               , and 
                        Wisconsin
                    , Miller coneludes  that to understand the Granger
                    laws one must recognize that they were part of a reaction of the older, regionally based mercantile
                    orders to the rise of a burgeoning industrial capitalism on a national scale and in particular to
                    the rise of interstate railroad systems. Promoted by local mercantile, shipping, and business
                    interests rather than farmers, the regulatory Granger laws centered mainly on the issue of railroad
                    rate discrimination and were essentially moderate, not radical, measures. Alluding to the fact that
                    the railroad officials played a key role in drafting the regulatory laws and to the fact that
                    "all the important Granger innovations ... were concessions to the railroad
                    interests" (p. 168), the author further alleges that the commission form of regulation,
                    framed by the established political leadership in each of the Granger states studied, was acceptable
                    to the railroads.
            While the author asserts that he can find no evidence of class struggle in this movement for railroad
                    rate regulation, it is nevertheless apparent that there was a conflict of economic interests in
                    which the forces of a dynamic industrial capitalism—in this case the railroad industry as
                    the first big business in the nation—sought in the face of increasing interrailroad
                    competition and disgruntled local interests to rationalize a ruinous nationwide competitive
                    situation through stabilization of the market. Confronted with increasing popular discontent and
                    agitation for government action, the railroad interests sought to shape that regulation for their
                    own benefit.
            Here the author has broached a particularly fruitful area for intensive exploration; yet, it is an
                    area which he does not develop—i.e., the role of the railroad interests themselves in
                    framing the Granger railroad regulatory laws. Much as Lee Benson approached this problem in his Merchants, Farmers and Railroads (1955) or as Gabriel Kolko dealt with the issue
                    in his Railroads and Regulation, 1877–1916 (1965), and more broadly for
                    the Progressive Era in his Triumph of Conservatism (1963), historians in this
                    contemporary age of welfare corporate industrial capitalism should explore more closely the role of
                    industrial capitalists as a powerful interest group actively pursuing government regulation as the
                    means to stabilize an "unrationalized" capitalistic marketplace.
            Supported by a truly impressive bibliography and extensive documentation, Miller's volume is
                    a useful addition to those works on the Granger movement in general and to the studies dealing with
                    the history of railroad regulation in particular.
            
                    Simpson College, Indianola, 
                            Iowa
                        
               
                
            Ralph William Helfrich
         
         
         
            
               Enterprise Denied: Origins of the Decline of American Railroads,
                        1897–1917. By Albro Martin. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 1971. Pp. xiv, 402. Notes, appendix, bibliography, index.
                    $10.95.)
            This was the prize winning book in the first 
                        Columbia
                     University contest in American economic history in honor of Allan Nevins. The preface
                    by Stuart Bruchey of 
                        Columbia
                     University is rather unusual in that it would serve quite satisfactorily as a review.
            Professor Martin set out to examine the real nature of the "railroad problem" which
                    he learned about as he grew up. He discovered that the problem had been around for more years than
                    he had thought and that its nature was quite different than was presented in conventional textbook
                    accounts. The more he researched the more he discovered that the difficulties were accentuated
                    greatly by "archaic Progressivists" and that the principal culprits were most
                    active in the period after 1910. Railroad capital requirements were expanding and costs were rising,
                    but general rate increases proved unobtainable. A little group of commissioners—goaded by
                    the people's lawyer, Louis Brandeis—thwarted attempts of the railroads to obtain
                    relief. Weakness inevitably ensued. The railroads could not meet rising labor demands, and, in the
                    course of time, operations were taken over by the government in World War I. Martin gives a detailed
                    and at times dramatic account of the rate proceedings.
            The book is written in a vigorous style, and the author may well be accused of being highly
                    opinionated. Something about the style invites or forces disagreement, but, on the other hand, the
                    breadth of research and the vigor of the arguments tend to cow a critic. Strong statements can be
                    forgiven when there is evidence that the author has already done his homework. For the most part
                    this has to be conceded.
            The writing style is sprightly and at times a trifle florid. The first part of the book is somewhat
                    difficult to follow. As the narrative continues, the focus becomes clearer and the style sharper,
                    and interest heightens. Although Martin indicts—and perhaps convicts—the
                    majority of the commission and Brandeis of actions that ultimately were harmful to the railroads,
                    shippers, and the nation, he may deal too lightly with the railroad leaders themselves. Almost as
                    convincing a case could be made that the industry spokesmen were somewhat incompetent because they
                    failed to muster convincing data and to evaluate the nature of the opposition to their cause. This
                    does not exonerate the "archaic progressives" but does suggest that the other side
                    ought to have been clever enough to outmaneuver them.
            It is hard to believe that the root of the decline of the American  railroads was so largely embodied within the confines of the period and the forces with which
                    Martin deals. The seeds of difficulty may be located in an earlier period, and regulation does not
                    appear primarily responsible for the railroads’ demise, but elaboration of this position
                    would entail a lengthy argument not advanced here. Certain imputations from the statistical material
                    presented in the appendix also weaken the thesis rather than strengthen it. Finally, the author
                    expresses the intention to concentrate on the 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , the Illinois Central, and the Santa Fe to describe the physical and financial
                    transformation of American railroads in the Progressive Era. This declaration of intention was
                    hardly worthwhile since little is done along this line, particularly with regard to the Santa Fe.
            Although one can quibble with the book because it is written in such a virile manner, it probably
                    merits its first prize in relation to most of the books on this subject. It is provocative and
                    informative. An enormous amount of scholarship has gone into its production with a result likely to
                    please railroad buffs, historians, and critics of commission regulation and to nettle a few readers
                    not otherwise classified.
            
                    Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
                
            L. Leslie Waters
         
         
            
               Henry Ford and Grass-roots America. By Reynold M. Wik. (
                        Ann Arbor
                    : The University of Michigan Press, 1972. Pp. viii, 266. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $10.00.)
            Henry Ford appears to have an unending attraction for biographers, both amateur and professional. Wik
                    is a professional with a lifetime of research in farm technology to apply to his subject. He is
                    undertaking here to explain Ford's relationship to rural America: on one side, why and how
                    rural America regarded Ford as a folk hero; on the other, Ford's own attitudes toward
                    farmers and farming. There is something ironic in the picture. In his youth Ford so thoroughly
                    detested farm life that he left home as soon as he could to work with machinery in nearby 
                        Detroit
                    . As a successful industrialist he considered himself as having a special mission to use
                    mechanization for the benefit of the farmer, and rural America came to regard him as a miracle
                    worker with a special understanding of farm problems.
            Professor Wik has skillfully used newspapers and magazines, public relations and advertising
                    statements, and much archival material to depict this phenomenon. He gives the reader detailed
                    accounts of the impact of the Model T on rural life, Ford's efforts at tractor development,
                    his experiments with soybeans, his plan for fertilizer production at Muscle Shoals, and above all,
                    how farmers saw Henry Ford.
            
            There may even be too much detail. At several points this reviewer found himself wishing for more of
                    what Wik thinks and less of what the editor of a small town paper or a Ford public relations man had
                    to say. Not that the unearthing of these opinions is to be denigrated; it is a valuable historical
                    achievement—but then the reader, or at least this reviewer, would like to know how a
                    mature scholar like Wik interprets it. For example, Chapter 5 is largely a compilation of
                    contemporary opinions pro and con the Fordson tractor. Wik is correct in stating that "No
                    account of the social impact of the farm tractor has ever been written" (p. 99), and to
                    present such an account was not his purpose. But the author does discuss Ford's
                    contribution to farm mechanization in a way that avoids rather than faces the issue. It also seems
                    odd to have Harry Ferguson mentioned only once (p. 97), and then with no reference to his
                    relationship with Ford.
            Wik offers his own evaluations of Ford in the context of this book. He agrees with practically
                    everyone who has tried it that Ford is a difficult personality to interpret. Two points call for
                    comment. Wik credits Ford with considerable scientific acumen, more so than Ford's other
                    biographers, in practical matters like plant chemistry and plastics. On the other hand he attempts,
                    not too successfully, to dismiss Ford as an inventor or even an innovator in automotive matters. Is
                    it really worth while belaboring the fact that Ford did not invent the automobile and was not the
                    first to dream of the cheap car or to try to realize it? What matters historically is
                    that none of Ford's predecessors could make the dream come true and Henry Ford did.
            Wik has made a major contribution to the literature on Ford, but even in his chosen field of
                    Ford's relationship with rural America he has not said the last word. He has, however,
                    clearly established that he is the best qualified person to say it.
            
                    Harvey Mudd College, Claremont, Calif.
                
            John B. Rae
         
         
            
               State and National Voting in Federal Elections, 1910–1970. By Edward 
                        Franklin
                     Cox. (Hamden, Conn.: The Shoe String Press, Inc., 1972. Pp. xv, 280. Notes, tables.
                    $15.00.)
            The purpose of this book is to provide a compilation of voting statistics in tabular form for
                    national offices during the recent period of American political history. The major portion of the
                    volume is comprised of statistics concerning elections for President, senator, and representative by
                    state and for the 
                        United States
                    . The author also presents the sum of partisan votes for representative and the mean
                    partisan vote as measures of partisanship. Finally, a relatively complete  set of notes for each state is presented. The partisan complexion of
                    each state's congressional delegation, names of important minor parties, contests for short
                    terms, and endorsements are reported.
            Noting other compilations of electoral statistics, the author argues that none of the other studies
                    combines the reporting of data for national elections for each kind of constituency (national,
                    state, and congressional district) during a period of comparable length. Few other works report
                    notes of similar detail concerning voting distributions.
            Despite the care that the author has taken to insure accuracy in this collection of statistics, this
                    reviewer was disappointed by the scope of the book. The addition of a few pieces of information
                    would have greatly enhanced the value of the work for social scientists.
            First, a rudimentary analytic framework would have been helpful in aiding interpretation of the data.
                    Indications of partisan groupings of states and of the development of new groupings of states during
                    the period would have been helpful. Behaviorally oriented typologies can add immeasurably to a book
                    of this kind by helping the reader to structure the extremely complex subject matter. Genuine
                    innovation may also be a result of such activity.
            Usefulness of the volume would have been increased if voting turnout had been reported. Based on
                    estimates of eligible electors, turnout would have allowed rapid computation of roll-off, drop-off,
                    and other descriptive statistics that would have added a new dimension.
            Finally, a series of events occurred during this period that undoubtedly had a tremendous impact on
                    political partisanship and on popular participation in elections (in addition to minor party
                    challenges). Progressives and other political activists succeeded in establishing institutional
                    changes in electoral practices during the early portion of the period. Mandatory voter registration,
                    for example, was a reform that had gross consequences for voter participation in Indiana.
            Other institutional changes and historical events that are associated with each state's
                    voting distributions would appear to merit comment in the footnotes. Primary elections, the
                    institutionalization and (more recent) decline of Jim Crow laws and practices, hours the polls are
                    open, ballot form, enfranchisement, and other legal aspects of voting varied considerably by state.
                    Each has an impact on partisanship as well as on turnout.
            Although the brief introduction was difficult to follow and a bit stilted in several places, this is
                    in part due to presentation of highly qualified conditions for reading and interpreting electoral
                    records. This compilation of voting statistics is workmanlike in construction  and should be of considerable value as a reference volume for the
                    quantitatively oriented historian. The usefulness of the volume should be particularly marked for
                    scholars who do not have ready access to large scale data bases and modern digital computers.
            
                    Ohio State University, 
                            Columbus
                        
               
                
            C. Richard Hofstetter
         
         
            
               Kinsey: A Biography. By Cornelia V. Christenson. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1971. Pp. xii, 241. Illustrations, publications of Alfred C.
                    Kinsey, notes, index. $6.95.)
            During the past year two accounts of the life of Alfred C. Kinsey and his controversial research have
                    appeared, both by persons who had long association with him in the Institute for Sex Research at
                    Indiana University. This reviewer's outstanding impression of Mrs. Christenson's
                    book is that she has presented remarkably well an enormous amount of detail, much of it highly
                    technical. Kinsey's early work on gall wasps is described clearly, and the transition from
                    this to the later studies on human sexual behavior blends the two into a single study of individual
                    variation. As a lifelong resident of 
                        Bloomington
                    , having close ties with Indiana University, the author has used her knowledge of campus
                    life in tactful and effective ways to tell her story. Some of the best parts of the book recount the
                    Kinsey marriage, the establishment of the Kinsey's home in 
                        Bloomington
                    , and their relations with their neighbors.
            Christenson notes Kinsey's estrangement in later years from all formal church
                    activity—even to the family's forbidding a daughter to become a church member at
                    the age of twelve because she was too young to make the decision. The author contrasts this with
                    Kinsey's early experiences as a member of a rigidly religious family; his interest in
                    Sunday School, scouting (an Eagle Scout), and the YMCA; and his more or less regular church
                    attendance up to about the time of his marriage.
            Kinsey's father, a self-made man without much formal education but a member of the teaching
                    staff of Stevens Institute at 
                  Hoboken, New Jersey
               , had visions of Alfred's
                    becoming an engineer; but at the age of twenty, after two years as a student in the institute,
                    Alfred declared his independence and enrolled in Bowdoin College, attracted there by the program in
                    biology. Henceforth he was practically without support from his family. Following graduation from
                    Bowdoin, graduate work at 
                        Harvard
                    , and a year on a traveling fellowship, he came to Indiana University as assistant
                    professor of zoology in 1920, advanced rapidly, and remained for the rest of his life.
            Kinsey is remembered in university circles for his broad interests  in living things and in hiking, camping, and other forms of outdoor life; for his gardening; his
                    passion for good music; his unconventional garden costume; and his abrupt manner. If this biography
                    falls short anywhere, it is in not giving an adequate picture of the flourish with which he liked to
                    do things and of the way in which, in the words of one of his assistants, he "liked to
                    shock people" (p. 67). This was shown by what one early acquaintance characterized as his
                    "tempestuous" piano playing (p. 27), his exaggerated use of numbers in discussing
                    the extent of his research, his dramatic drive across a dangerous bridge in 
                        Guatemala
                    , and his voice from Olympus manner of stating his views.
            The last years of Kinsey's life brought him much frustration. His sex research was both
                    highly praised and bitterly condemned, and he regarded much of the criticism as unjust. He was
                    turned down for an honorary degree at Bowdoin because of "imagined possible ridicule of his
                    research" (p. 30), the Sex Institute was in financial difficulty, there was some attempt to
                    identify his work with communist activities, and there was strong pressure from several directions
                    urging the university to discontinue support for his research. As a final blow, the physical
                    afflictions which had kept him out of military service in his early years, but which had been
                    concealed by his active life, finally caught up with him at the age of sixty-two.
            Any reader of this book should get a clearer view of Kinsey's work and a better
                    understanding of his methods and purposes.
            
                    Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
                
            Paul Weatherwax
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               A Guide to Southern Indiana. By William and Gayle Cook. (
                        Bloomington
                    : The authors, 1972. Illustrations, bibliography, index, map. $1.70.) The 155
                    entries in this guide provide a concise and extremely useful introduction to historic places and
                    structures as well as to scenic areas of southern Indiana. The enclosed map, with locations of
                    entries given, is a most helpful addition to the text. The authors have defined southern Indiana as
                    approximately that portion of the state south of the National Road (which traverses the state via
                            
                  Richmond, Indianapolis
               , and 
                        Terre Haute
                    ), plus a section of west central Indiana which includes 
                        Parke County
                    . The Cooks make no pretense that their listing is complete or that the descriptive
                    material is entirely accurate; nonetheless, their guide is the most useful single item of its type
                    which the editor of the Indiana Magazine of History has seen. The Cooks welcome
                    suggested additions to and corrections in their entries; their address is 1208 East Wylie Street, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana 47401. A similar guide is needed for northern Indiana, and in the next
                    revision perhaps the Cooks should extend their coverage to include items in the upper Whitewater
                    Valley and in the strip of land along and immediately south of the National Road between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and the Ohio border.
            
               Old 
                            Vanderburgh County
                         Courthouse, 
                            Evansville
                        , Indiana, Erected 1888: A Pictorial Study. Photographs by Fine Arts Camera
                    Club. Text and layout by Kenneth P. McCutchan. (
                        Evansville
                    : Conrad Baker Foundation, 1972. Illustrations. Paperbound, $12.50.) The
                    commentary and closeup photographs in this publication combine to make an interesting, informative,
                    and vivid account of the Old 
                        Vanderburgh County
                     Courthouse which was commenced in the late 1880s and completed in the early 1890s.
                    Regarded as an excellent example of Baroque Renaissance architecture, this building, located in 
                        Evansville
                    , was recently added to the National Register of Historic Places. It is now leased by
                    the Conrad Baker Cultural Foundation to whom much credit is due for successfully preserving one of
                    Indiana's county courthouses which some citizens and officials thought would make a
                    desirable site for another parking lot! The Conrad Baker Cultural Foundation is a worthy memorial to
                    the only resident of 
                        Evansville
                     who ever became chief executive of Indiana. Proceeds from the sale of this book are to
                    be used for the renovation of the Old 
                        Vanderburgh County
                     Courthouse.
            
               Select Bibliographic Guide to the Archives of DePauw University and Indiana
                    Methodism. Compiled by David J. Olson. ([
                        Greencastle
                    :  DePauw University], 1972. Pp.13. Pamphlet, free.)
                    This Select Bibliographic Guide suggests that the Archives of DePauw University
                    and Indiana Methodism contain manuscripts, tapes, and microfilms of considerable variety. For
                    instance, they include items regarding Charles A. and Mary Ritter Beard; Indiana railroad material
                    collected by Frank F. Hargrave; tapes of addresses by the noted scientist, Dr. Percy T. Julian; a
                    tape of a speech which Richard M. Nixon delivered, presumably at DePauw, in 1957; and microfilms of
                    records of the American Missionary Association dealing with abolitionist and freedmen work in
                    Indiana, 1840–1879. The archives were formally established in 1951 under the leadership
                    of Worth M. Tippy. Eleanore Cammack served as archivist from 1955 to 1971, when she was succeeded by
                    David J. Olson. Useful as this and similar publications are, there is a growing need for a general
                    bibliography of manuscripts, tapes, and microfilms in all Indiana colleges and universities. Such a
                    worthy project—if developed practically—would merit generous financial
                    sponsorship.
            
               A Study of 
                            Delaware County
                        , Indiana, Based on Data Obtained from a Series of Maps and Reports Sent in
                        184–5 from the District Road Supervisors to the County Auditor: The Work of Students
                        in a Laboratory Course in American History at Ball State University. By Althea L. Stoeckel. (
                        Muncie
                    : Ball State University, 1971. Pp. iv, 60. Notes, illustrations, maps, charts, selected
                    bibliography. Pamphlet, free.) Teachers and other individuals interested in experimental efforts to
                    involve undergraduates in historical research and writing based thereon will find this study of
                    interest and value. Some of the evaluations Professor Stoeckel has developed from such teaching
                    during the last few years are set forth on pages 58–61. This booklet may be purchased
                    from Althea L. Stoeckel, Department of History, Ball State University, 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana 47306.
            
               The Morgan Raid in Indiana and 
                            Ohio
                         (1863). By Arville L. Funk. (Mentone, Ind.: Superior Printing Company, 1971.
                    Pp. 68. Maps, illustrations, notes, bibliography. Paperbound, $2.75.) "Although
                    Confederates and their sympathizers made various raids across the Ohio River
                    into southern Indiana during the Civil War, the one led by General John Hunt Morgan exceeded them
                    all in size. Moreover, it caused more excitement, resulted in more property damage, and created more
                    legends than did any of the other raids" (p. 13). In this small volume Funk has collected a
                    number of personal and contemporary accounts of Morgan's Raid into Indiana, including an
                    article first printed in the Century Magazine, January, 1891. A general
                    description of the background, progress, and results  of the
                    raid, a discussion of Hines’ raid, and lists of casualties, military organizations, and
                    Confederate scouts are also provided. Maps and illustrations are interesting additions to the text.
                    The booklet may be purchased from ALFCO Publications, P.O. Box 66, Corydon, Indiana 47112. Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               History of the Department of Physical Education for Women at Indiana University. By
                    Edna F. Munro. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University, 1971. Pp. 55. Illustrations, appendix. Pamphlet, free.) Professor
                    Munro, chairman of the Department of Physical Education for Women at Indiana University,
                    1928–1958, and member of the faculty of the department for another five years, has
                    combined research into university records with personal recollections in producing this informative
                    and sympathetic account of the beginnings and subsequent development of physical education for women
                    at Indiana University. Some who use this modest booklet will doubtless wish Munro had expanded her
                    historical account; others will likely wish she had given further guidance regarding the sources
                    used, but all who seek information about the beginnings of physical education for women at Indiana
                    University will be her debtor.
            
               Yankee 
                            Quaker
                         Confederate General: The Curious Career of Bushrod Rust Johnson. By Charles M.
                    Cummings. (
                        Rutherford
                    , [N.J.]: Fairleigh Dickinson University Press, 1971. Pp. 417. Notes, maps,
                    illustrations, bibliography, index. $15.00.) The Confederate veterans who had served
                    under Bushrod Rust Johnson during the Civil War frequently regretted that their commander had been
                    underrated and that justice to him had been "very tardy" (p. 383). In this
                    biography Cummings attempts to rescue Johnson from oblivion, but the Ohio born 
                        Quaker
                    , whose choice of a military career ran counter to his heritage, "emerges from
                    the shadows as neither hero nor antihero, but something of both—a figure often bland and
                    undramatic, a man of multiple contradictions" (p. 379). In the final analysis
                    Johnson—well meaning, often heroic, but confused, inept, and foolish—fails in
                    almost everything he attempts: his military career in both the 
                        United States
                     and Confederate armies, his operation of a military school for young men, and even his
                    marriage. Cummings has presented not only a documented account of Johnson's contradictory
                    career but a perceptive analysis of his character as well. Hoosier readers will be especially
                    interested in Johnson's lengthy association with Richard Owen at Western Military Institute
                    in Kentucky and 
                        Tennessee
                    . Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
            
               Economic History of Wisconsin during the Civil War Decade. By Frederick Merk. Publications of the State Historical Society of 
                            Wisconsin
                        . Second edition. (
                        Madison
                    : The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1971. Pp. 414. End maps, notes, illustrations, figure, index. $10.00.)
                    Despite the current emphasis on quantitative history, Merk's traditional account of
                    economic developments in Wisconsin during the Civil War era remains a classic. Originally published
                    in 1916, the volume has as its theme the economic impact of the Civil War on the Badger State and
                    the geographic region of which it is a part. Although the author focuses on the four years of actual
                    conflict, his discussion of agriculture, industry, transportation, and commerce ranges over the
                    entire period between the two years of financial panic, 1857 and 1873. Research for this volume in
                    scattered and often fragmentary records was prodigious, and the work still stands an an
                    indispensable starting point for historians interested in regional economic history. The State
                    Historical Society of Wisconsin should be commended for issuing this second edition with revised
                    illustrations. As Merk notes in his preface to the second edition: the theme of the work
                    "has a perennial interest, as wars still shape the lives of states and nations. It contains
                    lessons for the present in parallels that are at least suggestive" (p. 9). Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Yankee Cavalrymen: Through the Civil War with the Ninth Pennsylvania Cavalry. By
                    John W. Rowell. (
                        Knoxville
                    : The University of Tennessee Press, 1971. Pp. xii, 280. Illustrations, notes, maps,
                    bibliography, index. $7.50.) Based on the diaries of two Pennsylvania soldiers, Cornelius
                    Baker and William Thomas, Yankee Cavalrymen traces the activities of the Ninth
                    Pennsylvania Cavalry during the Civil War. Although apparently unknown to each other, the two
                    diarists "seem to have been cast from the same mold" (p. ix). Both expressed
                    similar ideas about soldiering and the purpose of the war and had obvious pride in their state and
                    regiment. Use of their accounts adds a continuity and depth of feeling to what might otherwise have
                    been merely a military record. Rowell has written well a documented story of a regiment which
                    "may have traveled farther and have seen more of the South than any other group in the
                    Federal army" (p. viii). Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Legend and Lore from America's Crossroads. By Mabel E. Davidson.
                    (Privately printed: The author, 1971. Pp. 118. Illustrations. Paperbound, $2.95.) This
                    volume, as suggested by its title, is mainly legend and lore. It concerns varied aspects of local,
                    state, and national experience, principally from the early nineteenth to the  early twentieth century. The author, a native of 
                        Rush County
                    , Indiana, now resides at Colfax, Indiana; and she has earmarked all proceeds of this
                    book for aid to handicapped children and for the treatment and research of cancer.
            
               Soldier and Brave: Historic Places Associated with Indian Affairs and the Indian Wars in
                        the Trans-Mississippi West. Volume XII, The National Survey of Historic Sites
                        and Buildings. New Edition. Edited by Robert G. Ferris. (
                        Washington
                    : 
                        United States
                     Department of the Interior, National Park Service, 1971. Pp. xvi, 453. Illustrations,
                    maps, suggested reading, index. $4.00.) Soldier and Brave, a volume in
                    a series under the auspices of the National Park Service, offers a considerable amount of historic
                    information regarding sites and structures connected with American Indian history west of the
                    Mississippi River. Its illustrations, maps, and index add significantly to its usefulness.
            
               1971 Annual Report. California Landmark Edition. ([
                        Berkeley
                    ]: Cal-Farm Insurance Company and Cal-Farm Life Insurance Company, Farm Bureau
                    Insurance, [1972]. Pp. 12. Illustrations, charts. Pamphlet, free.) Although this publication
                    includes the 1971 annual report of the Cal-Farm Insurance Company and the Cal-Farm Life Insurance
                    Company of 
                        California
                    , it is noted here because much more than half of the booklet contains a listing and
                    brief descriptions of the forty some California sites and structures which have been added to the
                    National Register of Historic Places by representatives of the National Park Service. This example
                    of the Cal-Farm companies could well be imitated by Indiana companies or individual Hoosiers with
                    information about the roughly thirty places from Indiana which have been added to the National
                    Register of Historic Places. Similar booklets could also be published with material regarding a
                    number of the state's interesting and architecturally significant county courthouses or
                    with commentary and illustrations concerning state parks and memorials.
            
               Public Papers of the Presidents of the 
                            United States
                        : Richard Nixon ... 1969. (
                        Washington
                    : 
                        United States
                     Government Printing Office, 1971. Pp. LII, 1183. Frontispiece, notes, appendices,
                    index. $14.50.) Public Papers of the Presidents of the 
                            United States
                        : Richard Nixon ... 1970. (
                        Washington
                    : 
                        United States
                     Government Printing Office, 1971. Pp. LIII, 1305. Frontispiece, notes, appendices,
                    index. $15.75.) In recent years Public Papers of the Presidents of the 
                            United States
                        
                have been published for the administrations of Presidents Harry S. Truman,
                    Dwight D. Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy, and Lyndon B. Johnson. These two volumes have approximately
                         one thousand items covering the years 1969 and 1970 for the
                    Nixon administration. Presidential remarks and statements about both international and domestic
                    affairs are covered in great detail. Here, for instance, are items regarding President
                    Nixon's visit to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in February, 1970, in connection with a meeting of the Council for Urban Affairs (pp.
                    84–87) and speeches at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in October, 1970, in support of the candidacy of Congressman Richard Roudebush to the
                    Senate of the 
                        United States
                     (pp. 915–25). In one of the later speeches the President notes that the
                    Hoosier State "has sometimes been called ‘The Valley of Democracy,’
                    for this is the place where the voice of the people has always been heard loud and clear"
                    (p. 915). One wonders whether the President or one of his ghostwriters has become acquainted with
                        Valley of Democracy: The Frontier versus the Plantation in the Ohio Valley,
                        1775–1818 by John D. Barnhart, which was initially published by the Indiana
                    University Press in 1953.
            
               History of 
                            Franklin County
                        , Indiana: Her People, Industries and Institutions. ... By August J. Reifel.
                    Photographic reproduction. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : B. F. Bowen & Company, Inc., 1915. Pp. 1475. Indices, maps, illustrations.
                    $20.00.) The reissue of Reifel's massive 1,475 page history of 
                        Franklin County
                    , Indiana, originally published in 1915, is an event of more than usual import. Though
                    county histories are often puffy and have blemishes which make it essential that they be used with
                    care, nonetheless they are in various ways invaluable both to historians and genealogists. In part
                    because 
                        Franklin County
                     was one of Indiana's leading counties in the pioneer era and has remained of
                    significance ever since and also because of the comprehensive nature of Reifel's account,
                    this volume has much value as a source for state as well as local history. Moreover, considering its
                    size, its bargain price at $20 should be an inducement toward the publication of other
                    county histories which could also be reproduced inexpensively. This reviewer has both enjoyed and
                    profited from his leisurely perusal of this photographic reproduction of Reifel's History of 
                            Franklin County
                        , Indiana.
            
            
               Lutherans in Pioneer Indiana. By R. F. Rehmer. (
                        Lafayette
                    : Commercial Printing Corp., 1972. Pp. 23. Illustrations, notes, select bibliography.
                    Pamphlet, $.75.) The Reverend Rehmer has written an introductory but informative survey
                    of Lutheranism in pioneer Indiana. This booklet results from his continuing interest in and
                    considerable study of this important religious group within the 
                        German
                     element whose numerical importance in Indiana has been exceeded only by the English
                    stock. Rehmer exhibits much understanding of the general historical background from which
                    Lutheranism  sprang as well as Lutheran beginnings on the middle
                    western frontier. Comments or questions about this work should be sent to R. F. Rehmer, 100 S.
                    Chauncey, West 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana 47906. Copies of the pamphlet may be purchased from the Commercial Printing
                    Corp., 616 
                        Columbia
                     Street, 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana 47901. Special prices are available for retail orders of three or more and for
                    wholesale orders.
            
               A View of Ecclesiastical Architecture in 
                            Cass County
                        , Indiana. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Junior Historical Society, 1972. Pp. 30. Illustrations. Pamphlet,
                    $1.00.) This pamphlet has much resemblance to the previous local studies concerning
                    architecture in different sections of Indiana by members of the Indiana Junior Historical Society
                    except that it focuses on church architecture. As the illustrations indicate, there has been perhaps
                    as much variety in ecclesiastical architecture in 
                        Cass County
                     as in religious groups themselves.
         
         
         
            Tour of Historic Homes, 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana
            Many of the historic homes of 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, will be opened to the public on September 29–30 and October 1,
                    1972. Tri Kappa is sponsoring a city wide tour of these old dwellings, many of which are outstanding
                    examples of the Federal era, Georgian period, the Regency, and Classic Revival. Several of the homes
                    will feature candlelight tours. Proceeds will go to charity and scholarships. For further
                    information concerning the tour write 1972 Tour of Historic Homes, Post Office Box 804, 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana 47250.
         
         
            Papers Relating to the American Legion Desired
            Richard Clutter, member of the department of history, Indiana Central College, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , with the approval of the American Legion, is writing a history of the Legion in
                    Indiana. Diaries, personal correspondence, scrapbooks, or other materials which would be useful in
                    this project are desired. Address all correspondence to Richard Clutter, 5205 S. Linwood Avenue, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana 46227.
         
         
            Publications of Indiana Historical Bureau Desired
            Robert Brant, 
                        Shelbyville
                    , in order to complete his personal files, is seeking the following publications of the
                    Indiana Historical Bureau: Grace Julian Clarke, George W. Julian (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XI; 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1923); Perret Dufour, Swiss Settlement of 
                            Switzerland County
                        , Indiana (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XIII; 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1925); Dorothy B. Goebel, William Henry Harrison: A Political
                    Biography (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XIV; 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1926); Bert J. Griswold, 
                  
                            Fort Wayne
                        : Gateway of the West, 1802–1813 (Indiana Historical
                        Collections, Vol. XV; 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1927); Dorothy Riker, ed., Executive Proceedings of the State of Indiana,
                        1816–1836 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXIX; 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1947). Brant is also interested in locating bound volumes of the publications of the
                    Indiana Historical Society. Correspondence should be sent to Robert Brant, 229 Howard Street, 
                        Shelbyville
                    , Indiana 46176.
         
      
   
