
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 28, Issue 3, pages 149-218. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:28+issue:3+year:1932&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            George Washington and the West1
            
            By CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            The attitude of George 
                        Washington
                     toward the development of the West is a striking manifestation of the clearness of
                    vision and soundness of judgment which made him the leader of his contemporaries and the founder of
                    the American nation. It is also significant as a tie which binds us, of the interior of the
                    continent and of a state formed nearly two decades after his death, to the great Virginian whose
                    career is too often associated solely with the thirteen original states. In the commemoration of the
                    second centennial of the birth of 
                        Washington
                    , it is fitting and proper to recall that he not only won independence and founded a
                    nation, but that he saw the path of its destiny and worked effectively to promote its progress
                    therein. "The Winning of the West" was half of the Revolution and the development
                    of the West was to be even a larger part of the task of the new-born nation.
            From the time when Jamestown was established, the area of settlement in 
                        Virginia
                     moved westward at a rate ordinarily stated as fifty miles a generation. The Washington
                    family was part of the seaboard westward movement. Augustine 
                        Washington
                     developed an estate at Wakefield on the lower Potomac, now being carefully restored as
                    one of the historic 
                        Washington
                     shrines. There on the 22nd of February, 1732, according to the new style calendar
                    introduced in the English world twenty years afterward, George 
                        Washington
                     was born. His boyhood was spent at 
                        Fredericksburg
                     about twenty miles farther inland. Lawrence 
                        Washington
                     developed 
                        Mount Vernon
                    , perhaps fifty miles up the Potomac, and to 
                  
                     1 This paper was read before the meeting of the Southwestern Indiana
                            Historical Society at 
                                Evansville
                             on March 11, 1932.
               
                     this his brother George, upon the death of Lawrence, succeeded.
                    Even before the maturity of George 
                        Washington
                    , however, occupation of land by more mobile families had proceeded to the foothills of
                    the Appalachian Mountains. Here necessarily the westward movement paused, held back by the
                    difficulty of traversing the mountains and by the double menace of the French and Indians beyond the
                    mountains. The breaking down of these barriers was the first great step toward the occupation of the
                    interior of the continent.
            In this task, circumstances and 
                        Washington
                    's own character brought him to leadership in his early twenties. He was chosen
                    by Governor Robert Dinwiddie to take a message to the commander of the vanguard of the French that 
                        Virginia
                     claimed the land west of the mountains, a warning to the French to keep out of the
                        Ohio Valley. This was 
                        Washington
                    's first trip across the mountains to the West. He secured the services of an
                    experienced woodsman, Christopher Gist, and in the winter of 1753-1754 performed his mission,
                    surmounting difficulties and dangers, the record of which is preserved in one of the journals in
                    which he recorded briefly the bare facts of his career. On the west side of the mountains, he had to
                    go up the Allegheny River to Venango (the present 
                  Franklin, Pennsylvania
               ), then
                    up French Creek to its source where stood Fort Le Boeuf (the present Water-ford, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ). Here he delivered his message to the French commandant, Le Gardeur de St. Pierre. His
                    return overland was even more dangerous and arduous than his trip out. During this ten weeks of
                    anxiety and hardship 
                        Washington
                     learned much of the western country, for he observed everything.2
            
            Later in 1754 
                        Washington
                     retraced part of the way across the mountains in command of a small force of Virginians
                    sent to forestall the French occupation of the upper 
                        Ohio
                     country. His force, however, was too small and arrived too late to accomplish its
                    purpose. Before reaching the 
                        Ohio
                     it was compelled to retreat to Great Meadows and there to 
                  
                     2
                            Writings of George 
                                    Washington
                                
                     , edited by Worthington C. Ford, I, 86-46. In succeeding references
                            this work will be cited as Writings of 
                                    Washington
                                . The Diaries of George 
                                    Washington
                                
                     , edited by George Fitzpatrick (4 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1925), cover most of this western trip (43-67), and some of the other western
                            journeys of 
                                Washington
                            . Together with the Writings, they still constitute the best
                            source of information for such a study of 
                                Washington
                             as that suggested by this paper. The most complete collection of material will
                            undoubtedly be The Writings of George 
                                    Washington
                                 from the Original Manuscript Sources, 1746-1799, now being edited by
                            John C. Fitzpatrick and published under the direction of the 
                                United States
                             George 
                                Washington
                             Bicentennial Commission by authority of Congress at the Government Printing
                            Office.
               
                     surrender. It is noteworthy that afterward 
                        Washington
                     bought Great Meadows, an estate of 234 acres, and left it upon his death as one of his
                    properties. Past it now goes one of the great ocean to ocean roads3, carrying
                    the traffic from the interior of the continent which 
                        Washington
                     thus early sought to open.
            
               
                        Washington
                    's third trip into the West was as aide-decamp to the ill-fated Braddock in his
                    expedition against the French at the forks of the 
                        Ohio
                    . He was kept out of service by illness during part of the campaign but joined the army
                    in its approach to Fort Du Quesne which the French had built at the junction of the Monongahela and
                    the Allegheny. Within the present industrial district of Pittsburg, Braddock's army was
                    turned back in a rout. The story of 
                        Washington
                    's courage, presence of mind, and energy which saved the remnant of
                    Braddock's army and soon made him the foremost military figure in the colonies need not be
                    repeated here.
            During the French and Indian War, which began near Great Meadows, 
                        Washington
                     was the defender of the 
                        Virginia
                     frontier, a most difficult task for his meager forces. He was active in the
                    preparations for Forbes' expedition which at last changed Fort Du Quesne to Fort Pitt, the
                    future 
                        Pittsburgh
                    .
            After the French and Indian War, 
                        Washington
                     made a more extensive trip, this time with a peaceful purpose, to 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and down the 
                        Ohio
                     as far as the Great Kanawha, setting out on October 5, 1770, and returning to 
                        Mount Vernon
                     about the first of December, 1770. He went by way of Little Meadows, Great Crossing,
                    Laurel Hill, Gist's, and Craw-ford's, where he commented upon a coal mine and the
                    quality of the fuel it yielded.
            After the War of the Revolution, 
                        Washington
                     planned a far more extensive trip from 
                        Virginia
                     through the northern states, thence up the St. Lawrence Valley and the Great Lakes to 
                        Detroit
                    , thence to Lake Michigan and over the 
                        Chicago
                     portage, down the 
                        Illinois
                     and the 
                        Mississippi
                     to 
                        New Orleans
                    , returning by way of Pensacola.4 This plan, however, he was not
                    able to carry out. Instead, he made a shorter trip to visit his western lands, starting out in
                    September, 1784, and coming West as far as the lands which he owned between 
                        Pittsburgh
                    
                    
                  
                     3 The National Road, now well known as Number 40.
                  
                     4 Worthington C. Ford, George Washington (Memorial
                            edition, 1900), II, 114-115.
               
                     and Wheeling, traversing in all a distance of nearly 700
                        miles.5
            
            To the knowledge of western land and routes of travel gained by his own trips and personal
                    intercourse with western men, 
                        Washington
                     added extensive reading. While not usually regarded as given to study, he was in
                    reality a thorough student of matters in which he was interested. His letters show an acquaintance
                    with the best publications upon the western country. In particular he cites the work of that
                    interesting and important engineer, Thomas Hutchins, who after service in the French and Indian War,
                    left the British Army to join the American Revolutionary forces. A Topographical
                        Description of 
                     Virginia, Pennsylvania, Maryland
                   and 
                            North Carolina
                        
               , published by Hutchins in 1778, was a mine of accurate information from which 
                        Washington
                     drew to supplement his personal knowledge.
            
               
                        Washington
                    's primary business in life was that of a farmer more particularly, a 
                        Virginia
                     planter. He made his living out of the land. Careful and scientific management made him
                    successful and, like all good farmers, from time to time he extended his holdings, adding to his
                    inheritance and to the estates brought to him by his wife. He became one of the largest landholders
                    in the country. With his interest in the West, it was only natural that he should acquire large
                    tracts of western land. The first opportunity to do this came with the proclamation of Governor
                    Dinwiddie of February 19, 1754, promising to 
                        Virginia
                     soldiers and officers a total of two hundred thousand acres as bounty for services
                    against the French and Indians. Each field officer was to get 15,000.6 When it
                    came time to carry out the promises after the War, 
                        Washington
                     took the lead in pressing the claims of the officers and the men. He was eager to get
                    his own land as soon as possible and to get as good land as possible. On September 21, 1767, he
                    wrote to William Crawford, who had made a settlement on the other side of the mountains, as follows:
                        
                  
                     5 Archer B. Hulbert, 
                        
                                    Washington
                                 and the West (
                                New York
                            , 1905). This volume presents 
                                Washington
                            's diary of September, 1784, which he kept while on a journey into the
                                Ohio River basin. He was working in the interest of a commercial
                            union between the Great Lakes and the Potomac River. The book is supplied with maps,
                            illustrations and comments by the editor. The National Geographic Magazine
                            of January, 1932, contains an article, The Travels of George 
                                Washington
                            " by William J. Showalter, accompanied by thirty-four illustrations and
                            a large folding map.
                  
                     6
                            Writings of 
                                    Washington
                                
                     , II, 845-846.
               
                    
                    
                        I then desired the favor of you (as I understood rights might now be had for the lands, which
                            have fallen within the 
                                Pennsylvania
                             line,) to look me out a tract of about fifteen hundred, two thousand, or more
                            acres somewhere in your neighborhood, meaning only by this that it may be as contiguous to
                            your own settlement, as such a body of good land could be found and about Jacobs Cabins, or
                            somewhere on those waters. I am told this might be done. It will be easy for you to
                            conceive, that ordinary or even middling land would never answer my purpose or expectations,
                            so far from navigation, and under such a load of expenses, as these lands are encumbered
                            with. No; a tract to please me must be rich, (of which no person can be a better judge than
                            yourself,) and, if possible, to be good and level. Could such a piece of land as this be
                            found, you would do me a singular favor in falling upon some method to secure it immediately
                            from the attempts of any other, as nothing is more certain, than that the lands cannot
                            remain long ungranted, when once it is known, that rights are to be had for
                                them."7
                  
                    
            
            A great deal had to be done, however, before title could be secured to any land under the
                    Proclamation of 1754. It was understood that the land would be at the forks of the 
                        Ohio
                     at Fort Pitt. Instead, however, most of the land granted was lower down in the
                        Ohio Valley. Surveys had to be made, claims had to be assembled, allotments
                    had to be made. Each of these seemingly required the personal supervision of the claimants or their
                    representatives and involved endless difficulties. 
                        Washington
                     took the lead in surmounting these difficulties. He secured a surveyor, called meetings
                    of claimants, assessed costs and went to no end of trouble to bring the matter to a successful and
                    satisfactory conclusion. In 1771 he wrote that ten of the largest tracts, containing 60,000 acres,
                    to be given to the officers and soldiers, had been surveyed. The cost of surveying was
                        £200.8
            
            There can be no question that 
                        Washington
                     performed a great service to his fellow officers and soldiers by this arduous labor. It
                    was inevitable, however, that many of the possible claimants did not appreciate the value of the
                    western land or were unable to take advantage of the ownership of such land. It was also inevitable
                    that others would be dissatisfied with the shares which fell to them. Both groups have left traces
                    in the records. The evidence, however, is clear that 
                        Washington
                    , when he secured a distribution of shares, when he bought the shares of eligible
                    claimants who 
                  
                     7
                            
                                Washington
                             to William Crawford, 
                                Mount Vernon
                            , Sept. 21, 1767, in ibid., II, 219.
                  
                     8
                            
                                Washington
                             to George Mercer, 
                                Williamsburg
                            , Nov. 7, 1881, in ibid., II, 342-343.
               
                     wanted to sell them, and when he selected his own land, was
                    honest as well as public-spirited. His own narrative was perfectly fair. He wrote to one
                    complainant, a Reverend Dr. Thruston: 
                        I did not on the other hand, pick the Surveys that were assigned me, either from the
                            excellency of the Land, or convenience of situation; If I had, I could have avoided the
                            largest Tract I now have (composing a full moiety of my quantum) as every inch of it, from
                            the Surveyors' account, is subject to be overflowed—nor did I, on the
                            other, object to the fifty thousand on account of the Land, for if I had by choice of the
                            whole country, I should have fixed in this Survey, but because I thought (after the Land
                            became patented) if any additional trouble was to be encounter'd (from the strange
                            manner of granting it) it might as well fall upon others, as me; as my shoulders had
                            supported the whole weight heretofore; and in as much as I might add without much arrogance,
                            that if it had not been for by unremitted attention to every favorable circumstance, not a
                            single acre of Land would ever have been obtained.9
                  
                    
            
            He followed the claims to western lands down to the out, break of the Revolution. Upon hearing a
                    report that lands further down the 
                        Ohio
                    , below the Scioto, might be obtained, he wrote to William Crawford: 
                        I have heard, (the truth of which, if you saw Lord Dunmore in his way to or from 
                                Pittsburgh
                             you possibly are better acquainted with than I am,) that his Lordship will
                            grant patents for lands lying below the Scioto, to the officers and soldiers, who claim
                            under the proclamation of October, 1763. If so, I think no time should be lost in having
                            them surveyed, lest some new revolution should happen in our political system. I have,
                            therefore, by this conveyance, written to Captain Bullet, to desire he will have ten
                            thousand acres surveyed for me; five thousand of which I am entitled to in my own right, the
                            other five thousand by purchase from a captain and lieutenant.
                        I have desired him to get this quantity of land in one tract, if to be had of the first
                            quality; if not, then in two, or even in three, agreeably to the several rights under which
                            I hold, rather than survey bad land for me, or even that which is middling. I have also
                            desired him to get it as near the mouth of the Sciota, that is, to the western bounds of the
                            new colony as may be; but for the sake of better lands, I would go quite down to the Falls,
                            or even below, meaning thereby to get richer and wider bottoms, as it is my desire to have
                            my lands run out upon the banks of the 
                                Ohio
                            . If you should go down the river this fall, in order to look out your own
                            quantity under the proclamation, I shall be much obliged to you for your assistance to
                            Captain Bullet, in getting these ten thousand acres for me, of the most valuable land 
                        
                           9
                                    
                                        Washington
                                     to Thurston, 
                                        Williamsburg
                                    , March 12, 1773, in ibid., II, 371.
                     
                             you can, and I will endeavor to make you ample amends
                            for your trouble;
                        Old David Wilper, who was an officer in our regiment, and has been with Bullet running out
                            land for himself and others, tells me, that they have already discovered salt springs in
                            that country, three of which Captain Thompson has included within some surveys he has made;
                            and the other, an exceedingly valuable one, upon the River 
                                Kentucky
                            , is in some kind of dispute. I wish I could establish one of my surveys there;
                            I would immediately turn it to an extensive public benefit, as well as private
                                advantage….10
                  
                    
            
            An illustration of 
                        Washington
                    's efforts to purchase claims and lands is shown in a letter which he wrote to
                    George Mercer in November, 1771, asking him to purchase the right of Stobo and Vanbraam, 
                        provided they will take a trifle for them …. My only motive for doing this is that
                            the progress of our affairs may be less obstructed, by being more contracted. The whole
                            trouble of late (in this country I mean) has fallen upon me, and a good deal of expence
                            which never has, nor indeed never can be, brought in to account I have been subjected to by
                            my activity in this matter; and, as it is very obvious that the whole work must go on at the
                            expence of a few, or not at all, I am inclined to adventure a little further in order to
                            take the chance of gaining in proportion to my loss; for no problem in Euclid is more clear
                            than that those who do not choose to advance beforehand whilst there is at least a hope of
                            success, will hardly draw their purse strings to reimburse the expences of others when even
                            hope is departed from them …. Col. Cresap, whom I have seen since his return from 
                                England
                            , gave it to me as his opinion, that some of the shares in the new (charter)
                            government on the 
                                Ohio
                             might be bought very cheap from some of the present members. Are you of this
                            opinion? who are they that would sell? and at what price do you think a share could be
                                bought?11
                  
                    
            
            
               
                        Washington
                     kept on acquiring western land by purchase and in payment for services rendered for
                    many years. In 1784, in reply to a question, he sent the following description of land which he
                    owned beyond the mountains: 
                        Upon examination, I find that I have patents under the signature of Lord Dunmore (while he
                            administered the government of this State) for about 30,000 acres; and surveys for about
                            10,000 more, patents for which were suspended by the disputes with Great Britain, which soon
                            followed the return of the warrants to the land-office.
                        Ten thousand acres of the above thirty lie upon the 
                                Ohio
                            ; the 
                        
                           10
                                    
                                        Washington
                                     to William Crawford, 
                                        Mount Vernon
                                    , Sept. 25, 1773, in ibid., II, 888-89, 890-91.
                        
                           11
                                    
                                        Washington
                                     to George Mercer, Nov. 27, 1771, in ibid., II,
                                    346-47, note.
                     
                             rest on the Great Kenhawa, a river nearly as large, and
                            quite as easy in its navigation, as the former. The whole of it is rich bottom land,
                            beautifully situated on these rivers, and abounding plenteously in fish, wild-fowl, and game
                            of all kinds.
                        The uppermost tract upon the 
                                Ohio
                             (which I include to lease) contains 2314 acres, and begins about four miles
                            below the mouth of the Little Kenhawa (there are two rivers bearing that name, the uppermost
                            of which is about one hundred and eighty miles below Fort Pitt by water), and has a front on
                            the water of more than five miles. The next is eighteen miles lower down, and contains 2448
                            acres, with a front on the river, and a large creek which empties into it of four miles and
                            upwards. Three miles below this again, on the same river, and just above what is called the
                            Big Bend in Evan's Map, is a third tract of 4395 acres, with a river front of more
                            than five miles.
                        Then going to the Great Kenhawa, distant about twelve miles by land, but thirty odd to follow
                            the meanders of the two rivers, and beginning within three miles of the mouth, I hold lands
                            on the right and left of the river, and bounded thereby forty-eight miles and a half; all of
                            which, being on the margin of the river, and extending not more than from half a mile to a
                            mile back, are, as has been observed before, rich, low grounds.12
                  
                    
            
            He tried to secure land as far away as the 
                        Mississippi
                     in West 
                        Florida
                    , though it seems that he failed to obtain any in that region: 
                        Herewith you will receive Lord Dunmore's certificates of my claims (as well in my
                            own rights as by purchase from Captain Posey and Mr. Thurston) in the location of which in
                            the government of West 
                                Florida
                             I shall rely on your friendship and care.
                        Unnecessary it is to add that I should choose good land or none at all. But as many things
                            concur to make land valuable, it is impossible for me at this distance, and under my present
                            knowledge of that country, to be explicit in any direction. Suffice it then to observe,
                            generally, that I would greatly prefer the land upon the river, to lands back from it; that
                            I should not like to be in a low, morassy country, nor yet in that which is hilly and
                            broken; and that, from the idea I entertain of that country at this time, I should like to
                            be as high up the 
                                Mississippi
                             as the navigation is good, having been informed that the lands are better and
                            the climate more temperate in the northern parts of the government than below.
                        If I could get the lands equally good in one survey I should prefer it. If not, then in one
                            or more as circumstances require. Perhaps some locations already made upon the river might
                            for a small consideration 
                        
                           12
                                    
                                        Washington
                                     to John Witherspoon, 
                                        Mount Vernon
                                    , Mar. 10, 1784, in ibid., 362-63. In his will, 
                                        Washington
                                     enumerated twenty-nine tracts of western land several of which were as
                                    follows: on the Ohio River five tracts, 9744 acres; on the
                                    Great Kanawha, five tracts, 23341 a.; Great Meadows (
                                        Pennsylvania
                                    ), 234a.; on the Mohawk River, 1000a.; on the Little Miami (Northwest
                                    Territory) 3051a.; in 
                                        Kentucky
                                    , 5000 a. For copy of the will, see Writings, XIV, 271-305.
                     
                             be bought; if so, I would rather advance a little money
                            than put [up] with less valuable land ….13
                  
                    
            
            
               
                        Washington
                     had faith in the West. He secured land under his own claims and purchased large amounts
                    from others because he thought them a good investment. He was not a land speculator, gambling on
                    speedy sales at an advance. He tried to develop his holdings and kept possession of most of them
                    until his death, but like most 
                        Virginia
                     planters, he was constantly in debt and in need of ready money. Profits from the
                    cultivation of plantations in 
                        Virginia
                     were at times very small; sometimes, even, there was a loss. On occasion, therefore, 
                        Washington
                     converted his holdings into cash. In the main, however, he sought to get settlers and
                    to make improvements. He not only located and purchased tracts for him-self but he advised others to
                    go to the western country, where he thought large estates could be developed. To his impecunious
                    neighbor, Captain John Posey, father of the Thomas Posey who was later governor of Indiana
                    Territory, he declared that 
                        there is a large field before you, an opening prospect in the back country for adventurers,
                            where numbers resort to, and where an enterprising man with very little money may lay the
                            foundation of a noble estate in the new settlements upon Monongahela for himself and
                            posterity. The surplus money which you might save after discharging your debts would
                            possible secure you as much land as in the course of twenty years would sell for five times
                            your present estate. For proof of which, only look to Frederick, and see what fortunes were
                            made by the Hite's and first taking up of those lands. Nay, how the greatest
                            estates we have in this colony were made. Was it not by taking up and purchasing at very low
                            rates the rich back lands, which were thought nothing of in those days, but are now the most
                            valuable lands we possess? Undoubtedly it was, and to pursue this plan is the advice I would
                            offer my brother were he in your situation; …14
                  
                    
            
            He made repeated efforts, mostly unsuccessful, to get settlers for his own land. Among his writings
                    is an advertisement for tenants for more than 20,000 acres of land along the 
                        Ohio
                     and the Great Kanawha.15
            
            It was probably interest in western lands as much as anything else which led 
                        Washington
                     and other Virginians 
                  
                     13
                            
                                Washington
                             to James Wood, March 13, 1773, in ibid., II, 372.
                  
                     14
                            
                                Washington
                             to John Posey, 
                                Mount Vernon
                            , June 24, 1767, in ibid., II, 216-17.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., II, 386.
               
                     into opposition to the British government, and to the War of
                    the American Revolution and independence. In the face of the movement of settlers beyond the
                    mountains and the efforts of great land owners to develop estates there, the English government
                    tried to close the doors to the western movement. There was a strong tendency in 
                        England
                     to preserve the land west of the mountains for the Indians and for the fur trade. At
                    the close of the French and Indian War the Royal Proclamation of 1763 drew a line along the
                    mountains beyond which settlers could not proceed. Machinery was even started for the dispossession
                    of French settlers long established in the valley of the 
                        Wabash
                     at 
                        Vincennes
                     and in the 
                        Illinois
                     country on the 
                        Mississippi
                     at 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , Cahokia, and other towns.
            To men such as 
                        Washington
                    , the Royal Proclamation of 1763 was a direct challenge. In spite of the fact that the
                    Governor of 
                        Virginia
                     warned settlers to observe it, 
                        Washington
                     asserted in 1767 that he was expecting to attempt to obtain lands in the
                    King's country, 
                        for I can never look upon that proclamation in any other light (but this I say between
                            ourselves) than as a temporary expedient to quiet the minds of the Indians, and must fall,
                            of course, in a few years, especially when those Indians are consenting to our occupying the
                                lands.16
                  
                    
            
            But the English policy was not to be lightly ignored. When Lord Hillsborough became colonial
                    secretary, he was bitterly opposed to settlers in the interior.17 An Order in
                    Council of September 15, 1769, forbade surveys in the West.18 The Order,
                    however, was disobeyed by the claimants to western lands who held a meeting at Winchester in March,
                    1771, and decided to proceed.19
            
            This was not all. There were constant threats of grants by the king to court favorites of great
                    tracts of land superseding claims of 
                        Virginia
                     officers and soldiers. Two such possibilities brought vigorous protests from 
                        Washington
                     to the Governor of 
                        Virginia
                    : 
                        Being fully persuaded of your Excellency's inclination to render every just and
                            reasonable service to the people you govern, or to anybody or society of them, that shall
                            ask it, and being encouraged in a 
                        
                           16
                                    
                                        Washington
                                     to William Crawford, 
                                        Mount Vernon
                                    , Sept. 21, 1767, in ibid., II, 200-21.
                        
                           17
                                    Ibid, II, 827 (statement of the editor, Worthington C. Ford, in
                                    footnote).
                        
                           18
                                    
                                        Washington
                                     to Dr. Thruston, 
                                        Williamsburg
                                    , Mar. 12, 1778, in ibid., II, 807.
                        
                                    19
                                    Ibid.
                                
                     
                             more particular manner by a letter, which I have just
                            received from Mr. Blair (clerk of the Council), to believe, that your Lordship is desirous
                            of being fully informed how far the grant of land solicited by Mr. Wallpole and others will
                            affect the interest of this country in general, or individuals in particular, I shall take
                            the liberty (being pretty intimately acquainted with the situation of the frontiers of this
                            dominion) to inform your Lordship, that the bounds of that grant, if obtained upon the
                            extensive plan prayed for, will comprehend at least four fifths of the land, for which this
                            government hath lately voted two thousand five hundred pounds sterling, the purchase and
                            survey of! and must destroy the well grounded hopes of those, (if no reservation is made in
                            their favor,) who have had the strongest assurances, which government could give, of
                            enjoying a certain portion of the lands, which have cost this country so much blood and
                            treasure to secure.
                        By the extracts, which your Excellency did me the honor to enclose, I perceive, that the
                            petitioners require to begin opposite to the mouth of Scioto, which is at least seventy or
                            seventy-five miles below the mouth of the Big Kanhawa, (and more than three hundred from
                            Pittsburg,) and to extend from thence in a southwardly direction through the pass of the
                            Ouasioto Mountain, which, (by Evans's map, and the best accounts I have been able
                            to get from persons, who have explored that country,) will bring them near the latitude of 
                                North Carolina
                            . From thence they go northeastwardly to the Kanhawa, at the junction of New
                            River and Green Briar, upon both of which waters we have many settlers upon lands actually
                            patented. From thence they proceed up the Green Briar to the head of the northeasterly
                            branch there-of, thence easterly to the Allegany Mountains, thence along these mountains to
                            the line of Lord Fairfax, and thence with his line, and the lines of 
                                Maryland
                             and 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , till the west boundary of the latter intersects the 
                                Ohio
                            , and finally down the same to the place of beginning.
                        These, my Lord, are the bounds of a grant prayed for, and if obtained, will give a fatal
                            blow, in my humble opinion, to the interests of this country. But these are my sentiments as
                            a member of the community at large; but I now beg leave to offer myself to your
                            Excellency's notice, in a more interested point of view, as an individual, and as a
                            person, who considers himself in some degree the representative of the officers and
                            soldiers, who claim a right to two hundred thousand acres of this very land, under a solemn
                            act of government, adopted at a very important and critical period to his Majesty's
                            affairs in this part of the world; and shall, therefore, rely on your Lordship's
                            accustomed goodness and candor, whilst I add a few words in support of the equity of our
                            pretensions, …20
                  
                    
            
            Five years later, 
                        Washington
                     protested to another Governor: 
                  
                     20
                            
                                Washington
                             to Lord Botetourt, Governor of 
                        Virginia, Mount Vernon
                     ,
                            Apr. 15, 1770, in ibid., II, 272-274.
               
                    
                    
                        At second hand, I learnt from Captain Floyd, that the Surveys made by Mr. Crawford under the
                            Proclamation of 1754 (expressly agreeable to an order of Council of the 15th of December,
                            1769), and for which your Lordships Patents under the Seal of the Colony, hath actually been
                            obtained, are now declared null and void.—The information appearing altogether
                            incredible, I gave little attention to it, 'till I saw Mr. Wilper on friday last,
                            who, in confirmation of the report, added that all the patentees (whom he had seen) under
                            that Proclamation, were exceedingly distressed and at a loss, to know what to think of it
                            …. the peculiar hardship of our situation if we are to encounter fresh
                            difficulties in search of lands which in my humble opinion has already involved us in
                            expence and trouble, which ought to have been avoided.21
                  
                    
            
            This conflict between the hunger of Virginians for western lands and the English
                    government's adverse policy of disposing of them is not usually given its due weight in
                    statements of the causes of the American Revolution. 
                        Washington
                    's correspondence between 1767 and 1775 is devoted much more largely to the
                    land question than to all other grievances against the English government put together. It is not
                    going too far to see in 
                        Washington
                     the revolutionist, the representative of America, ambitious for continental expansion,
                    determined to possess the land, rather than the upholder of abstract "rights of
                    man."
            During the Revolution, 
                        Washington
                     was not too busy with the conflict on the Atlantic coast to be mindful of the struggle
                    for the West. He was eager for the capture of 
                        Detroit
                    ; he did what he could, which was not much, to promote expeditions from 
                        Pittsburgh
                    ; he urged the Governor of 
                        Virginia
                    , Thomas Jefferson, in a letter of December, 1780, to further the equipment of George
                    Rogers Clark and gave evidence of full cooperation in the plans of Clark for the reduction of 
                        Detroit
                    .22
            
            When Independence was won and the country east of the 
                        Mississippi
                     ceded to the 
                  United States, Washington
               's influence was powerfully exerted
                    toward provision for its future government. He showed unusual knowledge of conditions in the West
                    and was one of the first to advocate the ultimate establishment of new states when the counry was
                    sufficiently settled. On September 7, 1783, he proposed to a member of Congress a western boundary
                    for a state northwest of 
                  
                     21
                            
                                Washington
                             to Lord Dunmore, 
                                Mount Vernon
                            , April 8, 1775, in ibid., II, 465-466.
                  
                     22
                            
                                Washington
                             to Jefferson, Dec. 28, 1780, in ibid., IX, 81 ff.
               
                     the 
                        Ohio
                    , which follows closely that of the present state of 
                        Ohio
                    .23 In a letter to Thomas Jefferson in 1785, he noted the desire of
                    the inhabitants of 
                        Kentucky
                     of the creation of such a state, if not at that time, when conditions should demand
                        it.24
            
            Of the importance of the Northwest, and of its future possibilities, 
                        Washington
                     was keenly aware. In 1784 in a letter to Richard Henry Lee, president of the
                    Continental Congress, he urged the thorough exploration and mapping of the section. Among the
                    notable passages of this letter is the following: 
                        The Assemblies of 
                                Virginia
                             and 
                                Maryland
                             have now under consideration the extension of the inland navigation of the
                            rivers Potomac and James, and opening a communication between them and the western waters.
                            They seem fully impressed with the political as well as the commercial advantages, which
                            would result from the accomplishment of these great objects, and I hope will embrace the
                            present moment to put them in train for speedy execution. Would it not, at the same time, be
                            worthy of the wisdom and attention of Congress to have the western waters well explored, the
                            navigation of them fully ascertained, accurately laid down, and a complete and perfect map
                            made of the country; at least as far westwardly as the Miamies, running into the 
                                Ohio
                             and Lake Erie, and to see how the waters of them communicate with the River 
                                St. Joseph
                            , which empties into the Lake Michigan, and with the 
                                Wabash
                            . I cannot forbear observing here that the Miami Village, in Hutchins's
                            map, if it and the waters here mentioned are laid down with any degree of accuracy, points
                            to a very important post for the Union. The expense attending the undertaking could not be
                            great, the advantages would be unbounded; for sure I am, nature has made such a display of
                            her bounties in those regions, that the more the country is explored, the more it will rise
                            in estimation, consequently the greater will the revenue be to the Union.25
                  
                    
            
            In one detail 
                        Washington
                    's judgment was at fault. Him-self a surveyor, and used to the 
                        Virginia
                     practice of surveying land using natural features to mark the metes and bounds, he did
                    not like the system of surveying of western lands introduced by his more radical and progressive
                    friend, Thomas Jefferson, in the ordinance of 1785, which provided for geometrical division into
                    square townships and sections, with-out reference to natural features. This system has been such a
                    convenience that it is difficult now to understand how one could prefer the irregularities and
                    inaccuracies of the other method. Yet 
                        Washington
                     condemned it: 
                  
                     23
                            
                                Washington
                             to James Duane, Sept. 7, 1788, in ibid., X, 309 ff.
                  
                     24
                            
                                Washington
                             to Jefferson, Sept. 26, 1785, in ibid., X.; 503-504.
                  
                     25
                            
                                Washington
                             to Lee, Dec. 14, 1784, in ibid., X, 427-428.
               
                    
                    
                        The ordinance [1785] is long, and I have none of them by me, or I would send one for your
                            perusal.—They [Congress] seem in this in. stance, as in almost every other, to be
                            surrendering the little power they have, to the States individually which gave it to
                            them.—Many think the price which they have fixed upon the Lands too
                            high;—and all to the Southward I believe, that disposing of these in Townships,
                            and by square miles alternately, will be a great let [hindrance] to the sale:—but
                            experience, to which there is an appeal, must decide.26
                  
                    
            
            It is not surprising that 
                        Washington
                    , with his wide experience and vision, sensed the great problem of western settlements,
                    that of communication. How could settlers get their produce to market? Two possibilities were
                    apparent in the last quarter of the eighteenth century: eastward to the Atlantic seaboard, and
                    southward down the 
                        Mississippi
                     to 
                        New Orleans
                    . The latter had the advantage of navigable waterways reaching far up scores, if not
                    hundreds, of valleys, big and little. It early became the objective of the western pioneers and for
                    more than half a century it bound the valleys of the upper 
                        Mississippi
                     and its tributaries to the mouth. But as long as 
                        Spain
                     or 
                        France
                     held the mouth of the great river this outlet seemed to many to be fraught with danger.
                    There was danger that the West would involve the 
                        United States
                     in diplomatic difficulties or even war with 
                        Spain
                    . There was also danger that the West might separate itself entirely from the states to
                    the east and link its fortunes with 
                        Spain
                    , or, perhaps form a new nation enlarged by the conquest of the lower 
                        Mississippi
                    . These were the considerations, which in part at least, led 
                        Washington
                     to urge incessantly the improvement of communications between the East and the West.
                    Perhaps the location of his own lands along this line of communication influenced his judgment. But
                    that his public policy was dictated by his private interests, as is some-times asserted, is a gross
                    exaggeration. Every consideration of public welfare called for the development of practicable routes
                    between East and West; and because 
                        Washington
                     saw this clearly he urged the improvement of such routes.27 His
                    willingness to postpone the opening of the 
                        Mississippi
                     to American trade was due, as he himself declared, mostly to political considerations.
            
               
                  26
                        
                            Washington
                         to the Marquis de 
                     LaFayette,
                                Mount Vernon
                  , July 25, 1785, in ibid., X, 478-479.
               
                  27 See among other letters, 
                            Washington
                         to Jefferson, Mar. 29, 1784, in ibid., X, 875-881, and to
                        Governor Benj. Harrison (
                            Virginia
                        ), Oct. 10, 1784, in ibid., 402-415.
            
            
            His own utterances make his position clear. At one time he said: 
                        There is nothing which binds one country or one State to another, but interest. Without this
                            cement the Western inhabitants, who more than probably will be composed in a great degree of
                            foreigners, can have no predilection for us, and a commercial connexion is the only tie we
                            can have upon them. It is clear to me, that the trade of the Lakes, and of the River 
                                Ohio
                            , as low as the Great Kanhawa if not to the Falls, may be brought to the
                            Atlantic ports easier and cheaper, taking the whole voyage together, than it can be carried
                            to 
                                New Orleans
                            ; but, once open the door to the latter before the obstructions are removed from
                            the former, let commercial connexions, which lead to others, be formed, and the habit of
                            that trade well established, and it will be found to be no easy matter to divert it, and
                            vice versa. When the settlements are stronger and more extended to the westward, the
                            navigation of the 
                                Mississippi
                             will be an object of importance, and we shall then be able, (reserving our
                            claims) to speak a more efficacious language, than policy, I think, dictates at present.28
                  
                    In another statement, he expressed himself clearly: "I may be singular in my ideas,
                    but they are these: that, to open a door to, and make easy the way for those settlers to the
                    westward (who ought to advance regularly and compactly), before we make any stir about the
                    navigation of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , and before our settlements are far advanced towards that river, would be our true line
                    of policy." Again he wrote: "However singular the opinion may be, I cannot divest
                    myself of it, that the navigation of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , at this time [1785], ought to be no object with us. On the contrary,
                    until we have a little time allowed to open and make easy the ways between the Atlantic States and
                    the western territory, the obstructions had better remain."29
            
            One of his favorite proposals was that of a canal to connect the Potomac with the Ohio
                        River system. While he spoke in general terms of routes between the East and the
                    West, it was natural that, as a Virginian and as the holder of large tracts of land on and between
                    the Potomac and the 
                        Ohio
                    , he should be anxious to establish a connection along this line. In his writings he
                    discusses different possibilities and the practicability of connecting by a canal different streams
                    in the two river systems. In 1785 he wrote to 
                        LaFayette
                    : 
                  
                     28 Ford, 
                                
                                    Washington
                                
                            , II, 118-119.
                  
                     29 Henry Cabot Lodge, George 
                                    Washington
                                
                      (American Statesman Series), II, 14.
               
                    
                    
                        This prospect, if it succeeds, and of which I have no doubt, will bring the Atlantic States
                            and the Western Territory into close connexion, and be productive of very extensive
                            commercial and political consequences; the last of which gave the spur to
                            my exertions, as I could foresee many, and great mischiefs which would naturally result from
                            a separation—and that a separation would inevitably take place, if the
                            obstructions between the two countries remained, and the navigation of the 
                                Mississippi
                             should be made free.30
                  
                    
            
            
               
                        Washington
                    's anticipations were not realized. The Potomac-
                        Ohio
                     canal was never built, and the Cumberland Road or National Road was not improved for
                    nearly a generation. Before it was finished through 
                  Ohio, New York
                had won the prize
                    which was sought for 
                        Virginia
                    , the Erie Canal making 
                        New York City
                     the great port for the products of the Northwest. Meanwhile the 
                        Mississippi
                    , while 
                        Washington
                     was President, was opened to the West without the disastrous consequences earlier
                    feared by him. The purchase of 
                        Louisiana
                     removed all possibility of international difficulties and of western secession. The
                    future, however, showed the wisdom of 
                        Washington
                    's constructive proposals even though developments came along lines different
                    from those which he advocated and anticipated.
            Before 
                        Washington
                     was inaugurated president of the 
                        United States
                    , the Territory Northwest of the Ohio River had been organized. The
                    region immediately south of the 
                        Ohio
                     was admitted to the Union as the State of 
                        Kentucky
                     during his first term, an evolution to which he had greatly contributed. One of the
                    principal tasks of his presidency was the breaking down of the Indian resistance to the settlement
                    of the Northwest territory. Under his orders the Secretary of War sent detailed instructions to
                    Major General Arthur St. Clair, the first governor of the Northwest Territory, in which was
                    developed the plan of action which 
                        Washington
                     expected would open the Northwest to settlers.
            The instructions included the following passages: 
                        While you are making such use of desultory operations as in your judgment the occasion may
                            require, you will proceed vigorously, in every preparation in your power, for the purpose of
                            the main expedition; and having assembled your force, and all things being in readiness, if
                            no decisive indication of peace should have been produced, either by the messengers, or by
                            the desultory operations, you will 
                        
                           30
                                    
                                        Washington
                                     to 
                              LaFayette,
                                            Mount Vernon
                           , July 25,
                                    1785, in Writings, X, 477.
                     
                            
                            commence your march for the Miami village [where Fort 
                                Wayne
                             now stands], in order to establish a strong and permanent military post at that
                            place….
                        The establishment of said post is considered as an important object of the campaign, and is
                            to take place in all events.31
                  
                    
            
            Governor St. Clair's defeat was a bitter disappointment to President Washington. In Anthony 
                        Wayne
                    , however, he found a man capable of welding the refractory soldiers of the frontier
                    into a disciplined army and of using it to the best advantage. 
                        Wayne
                    's advance to the Maumee River and his defeat of the Indians under the
                    redoubtable Little Turtle in the battle of the Fallen Timbers opened the way to the object at which 
                        Washington
                     had aimed for at least ten years, the planting of a fort and trading post at the head
                    of the Maumee, where the 
                        St. Joseph
                     and St. Marys rivers unite.32 "The army will proceed to
                    the Miami village," wrote 
                        Wayne
                     after his victory, "in order to accomplish the object of the
                        campaign."33 The army reached Miami Town on September 17, the
                    construction of Fort 
                        Wayne
                     was begun on the twenty-fourth of September and was dedicated on the twenty-second of
                        October.34 The next year, 1795, the treaty of Greenville with the Indians
                    and Jay's Treaty between the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        England
                     assured some sixteen years of uninterrupted peace for the real beginnings of the
                    settlement of the Old Northwest.
            This was, in many respects, the dramatic climax of General 
                        Washington
                    's two administrations. He had been the protagonist of western expansion long
                    before he dreamed of independence. When the latter had been won 
                        the thought that engaged his mind most was of the best means to give room for expansion, and
                            to open up the unconquered continent to the forerunners of a mighty army of settlers. For
                            this purpose all his projects for roads, canals, and surveys were formed and forced into
                            public notice. He looked beyond the limits of the Atlantic colonies. His vision went far
                            over the barriers of the Alleghanies; and where others saw thirteen infant States backed by
                            the wilderness, he beheld the germs of a great empire.35
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  31 Instructions to Major General Arthur St. Clair by General Henry Knox,
                        Secretary of War, May 21, 1791, in American State Papers, Indian Affairs, I,
                        172, 197.
               
                  32
                        
                            Knox
                         to St. Clair, Sept. 12, 1790, in ibid., 100. 
                            Knox
                         says in this communication: "this opinion was given to me by the President
                        in 1789." See 
                            Washington
                        's reference to this in his last quoted statements above.
               
                  33 Gneral 
                            Wayne
                         to the Secretary of War, August 28, 1784, in American State Papers,
                            Indian Affairs, I, 491.
               
                  34 Bert Griswold, Fort 
                            Wayne
                        , the Gateway of the West (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1927), 14-15.
               
                  35 Lodge, 
                            Washington
                        , II, 321-322.
            
         
         
         
            Internal Improvements without a Policy (1789-1861)
            By VICTOR L. ALBJERG
            Few domestic issues attracted greater attention during the early period of American history than did
                    the question of internal improvements. Judged by the space devoted to it in the Annals
                        of Congress, the Debates in Congress and the Congressional
                        Globe, it was of paramount interest. Evaluated according to the amount appropriated, it
                    occupied a position of much less significance. The first session of the seventieth congress
                    appropriated almost twice as much for the improvement of a single harbor as did all of the
                    congresses prior to the Civil War for all purposes of internal improvement.1
                    During the period from 1789 to 1861, although the amount of debate in Congress on appropriations for
                    lighthouses and fortifications was almost of no consequence, more money was actually appropriated
                    for each of these than was granted for internal improvements.2 The policy of
                    internal improvements was, therefore, more important for what it might have become than for what it
                    was. It was finally adopted as a system, but not until after it was no longer keenly needed. After
                    the Civil War there was no real opposition to the federal government's aid in the
                    construction of roads and harbors, but by that time there were other agencies which were in a
                    position to furnish transportation facilities.
            Congress displayed a lack of policy toward internal improvement from the very beginning of its
                    consideration of that subject. In the Constitutional Convention, Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                     proposed that Congress should have the power to construct canals so that the old
                    provinces could keep in touch with the western settlements. This motion was rejected by a 
                  
                     1 The amount appropriated for internal improvements in the period from
                            1789 to 1861, including the 2, 3, and 5% funds to the states was $30,881,056.14.
                            Compiled from the 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large; "Statement of Appropriations and
                            Expenditures for Public Buildings, Rivers and Harbors, Forts, Arsenals, Armories and other
                            Public Works from March 4, 1789 to June 30, 1882," in 47 Cong., 1 Sess., Sen. Ex. Doc., 196; "Letter of the Secretary of the Treasury
                            Communicating information called for by the Resolution of the Senate December 2, 1873 as to
                            the amount expended for Public Works in the States and Territories," in 43 Cong., 1
                            Sess., Sen. Ex. Doc., 12. The amount of money appropriated by the general
                            government for light houses in the period from 1789 to 1861 is $31,762,988.91.
                            See ibid. The amount appropriated for fortifications in the same period is
                            $47,768,905.55. See ibid. The first session of the seventieth
                            congress appropriated $55,886,310 for the improvement of 
                                New York
                             Harbor. Statutes of the United State of America passed at the
                                First Session of the Seventieth Congress, 1927-1928, p. 359.
                  
                            2
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     vote of three to eight; the framers of the Constitution feared
                    that Congress would become too powerful if it were allowed to exercise such a function. The
                    intention of the Constitutional Convention was, therefore, to deny Congress the right over internal
                    improvements. Yet, Congress eventually brushed aside all constitutional restraint and exercised the
                    very powers which the framers had intended to deny.
            It was generally conceded when internal improvement legislation was approached that Congress had the
                    power to construct roads and canals and improve harbors within the territories where there was no
                    state sovereignty, but that it had no similar rights within the states. Under this interpretation of
                    the Constitution the first appropriations for internal improvements were made within the
                    territories, when three sections of land were granted to Ebenezer Zane for the cutting of a trace
                    from what is now Wheeling, West 
                        Virginia
                    , to Limestone, 
                        Kentucky
                    ,4 and when the sum of $6,000 was appropriated in 1802
                    for the construction of roads in the Northwest Territory.5 Likewise, the first
                    federal appropriation for the improvement of a river was made within the territories. On February
                    15, 1819, Congress appropriated $6,500 for the "Survey of the Tributaries of the 
                        Mississippi
                    ".6 But the policy of confining appropriations to the
                    territories was abandoned almost as soon as it was put into operation, for in 1806 Congress extended
                    the operation of its power to the states but only after it had secured permission from the state
                    through which the improvement was to be made.7 State sovereignty was not to be
                    violated.
            The War of 1812, through an undeniable necessity, had accustomed the people to a greater reliance
                    upon the federal government, and they had come to look upon it as the proper instrumentality by
                    which their welfare should be promoted. Consequently in 1826, Congress harmonized its own
                    convictions with the popular desires when it appropriated federal money for the improvement of the
                    Savannah River.8 This was the first appropriation within a state without
                    previously 
                  
                     3
                            Journal of the Federal Convention, kept by James 
                                Madison
                            , edited by E. H. Scott (
                                Chicago
                            , 1893), p. 725.
                  
                     4
                            Laws of the 
                                    United States
                                 of America (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1796), III, p. 291-293.
                  
                     5
                            Statutes at Large, II, p. 180.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid. III, p. 480.
                  
                     7 The federal government petitioned 
                        Maryland, Virginia
                      and 
                                Pennsylvania
                             for permission to construct the Cumberland Road through their limits.
                  
                     8
                            Statutes at Large, IV, p. 170.
               
                     obtaining the state's permission to make such
                    improvement, since appropriations to a state reduced the lustre of its sovereignty. Appropriations
                    for improvements within the states followed, and of the amount appropriated for roads before 1861
                    seventy-two per cent of it was applied to internal improvements within the states as distinct from
                    the territories,9 while a still larger per cent of the money set aside for
                    harbors was also used for state improvement. In the period from 1789 to 1861 more than
                    $2,400,000 was appropriated for canal construction by the federal government. Of this sum
                    only $25,000 was applied in the territories, and this was for the Carondelet Canal in 
                        Louisiana
                    .10 Approximately four million acres of land were granted to the
                    states for the construction of canals, yet only a few were given to the territories for the same
                        purpose.11 Necessity and practicality superseded theories of government, and
                    again a former policy was repudiated.
            No one displayed greater vacillation on the internal improvement policy than did the Presidents.
                    Jefferson, that apostle of state rights, permitted the inauguration of the greatest internal
                    improvement project of this whole period, the Cumberland Road, yet in his last days he fulminated
                    against internal improvements by the federal government.12
                    
                        Madison
                     co-author of state rights and satellite of the sage of 
                        Monticello
                    , without questioning the power, recommended in 1811 that Congress aid 
                        New York
                     in the construction of a canal to connect Lake Erie with the
                    Hudson River.13 Yet, in his Bonus Bill veto, he reversed his early position on
                    internal improvements and emphatically declared that Congress neither had the power to appropriate
                    for, nor to construct works of internal improvement.14 Such a pronouncement was
                    enough to paralyze further internal improvement efforts at least as long as 
                        Madison
                     remained in office.
            
               
                        Monroe
                    's policy was equally confused and contradictory. 
                  
                            
                        9 Appropriation for roads within the territories
                                $3,181,517.88
                            Appropriation for roads within the states $6,417,258.07
                            Compiled from the Statutes at Large, "Statement of
                                Appropriations and Expenditures for Public Buildings, Rivers, Harbors, Armories,
                                Arsenals and Other Public Works from March 4, 1789 to June 30, 1812," in Sen. Ex. Doc. 196, 47 Cong., 1 Sess.
                        
                  
                     10
                            Statutes at Large, II, 517; IV, 124, 139, 162, 169, 263, 293, 350, 560,
                            427, 716; VI, 936; X, 60, 247.
                  
                     11
                            Statement showing Land Grants made by Congress to aid in Construction of
                                Railroads, Canals, and Internal Improvements together with data relating thereto,
                            Compiled by the General Land Office, (
                                Washington
                             1888).
                  
                     12
                            The Writings of Thomas Jefferson, edited by Paul Leicester Ford (12 Vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1905), XII, 58, 350, 426, 418, 430.
                  
                     13
                            Messages and Papers of the Presidents, edited by James D. Richardson, I,
                            p. 497.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., p. 686.
               
                     Before he met his first Congress he had assured 
                        Madison
                     that their views upon improvements coincided. He was determined, he said, to continue
                    the policy of his predecessor,15 and he informed Congress of his purpose. It was
                    not until 1822 that the national legislature seriously challenged his policy by passing of the Tolls
                    Bill. In the veto of that measure, 
                        Monroe
                     denied that Congress had the power to construct works of internal improvement, but
                    admitted that it had unlimited power of appropriation for any purpose whatsoever.16 This vas a departure from the views of 
                        Madison
                     and a wedge that was to widen the breach still further. In his seventh annual message
                    to Congress, 
                        Monroe
                     repudiated his own policy still further by admitting that Congress might construct
                    works of internal improvement provided that these were "national not state, general not
                    local". Such a definition permitted an elastic interpretation soothing to executive logic
                    and conscience. The result of this message was the passage of the Survey Bill in 1824 which created
                    a board whose duties it should be to determine projects which complied with the President's
                    criterion. This body interpreted liberally the term, "national". Consequently,
                    larger and more frequent appropriations for internal improvements followed. 
                        Monroe
                    , furthermore, signed a bill which granted to 
                        Ohio
                     for the construction of a road the alternate sections of land for five miles on both
                    sides of the route.17 This is the first instance of land being granted for
                    internal improvements. It was under 
                        Monroe
                    's administration that the federal government for the first time purchased
                    stock in canal companies.18 Therefore, all of the methods employed by the
                    federal government for the aiding and encouraging of internal improvements before 1861 had been put
                    into practice before 
                        Monroe
                     left office. All that remained to be done was merely to increase appropriations and to
                    enlarge stock subscriptions and land grants, which was done by 1829. Webster, indeed, declared that 
                        Monroe
                    's policy "took for granted the complete power of internal
                    improvements as far as any of its advocates had ever contended for",19
                    while 
                  
                     15 James 
                                Monroe
                             to James 
                                Madison
                            , November 24, 1817, in Writings of James 
                                    Monroe
                                
                     , edited by Stanislaus Murry 
                                Hamilton
                             (7 vols., 
                                New York
                             1898 to 1903), VI, p. 8.
                  
                     16
                            Messages and Papers of the Presidents, II, p. 43.
                  
                     17 This road ran from the lower rapids of the Miami to the western
                            boundary of the 
                                Connecticut
                             Reserve. The track contained 80,773,64 acres. Statutes at
                            Large, IV, p. 124.
                  
                            18
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     19
                            Webster-Hayne Debate, edited by Lindsay Swift (
                                Boston
                            , 1898), p. 157.
               
                    
                    
                        Clay
                     considered his own policy realized.20 Senator Macon of 
                        North Carolina
                     regarded the system of internal improvement as one of the most dangerous that had been
                    established in the 
                        United States
                    ".21 This had been achieved under a president who, upon
                    entering office, had denied to Congress the power of making internal improvements.
            Never did a cause secure more enthusiastic support than that given to internal improvements by John
                    Quincy Adams. In his inaugural address he was convinced that because of internal improvements the
                    "unborn millions of our posterity who are in the future ages to people this continent, will
                    derive their most fervent gratitude to the founders of the Union; that in which the beneficent
                    action of its government will be most deeply felt and acknowledged".22
                    While the earlier presidents had held the use of powers not specifically granted to be
                    unconstitutional, Adams declared that the exercise of powers "is a duty as sacred and
                    indispensable as the usurpation of powers not granted is criminal and odious".23 With that conception of the Constitution added to his native ardor for roads
                    and canals he did not lessen the gratitude of the "unborn millions" by appointing
                    Henry Clay—that enthusiastic spokesman of the American System—Secretary of
                    State. On July 4, 1828, Adams broke the ground for the Chesapeake and 
                        Ohio
                     Canal. In his zeal for the enterprise he sank the spade so deeply into the earth that
                    it struck a root. Thereupon the dignified New 
                        England
                        Puritan
                     President removed his coat, grasped the spade more firmly, turned it successfully and
                    expressed the hope that his action would sympolize the determination of the corporation to bring the
                    construction of the canal to a successful completion. Members of Congress with few exceptions were
                    willing to accept Adams' leadership. 
                        Madison
                    , writing to 
                        Van
                     Buren in 1826, declared, "it seems, indeed, to be understood that the policy
                    of internal improvements has taken such an extensive and permanent hold upon the public will that
                    the constructive policy of Congress to make them will not be relinquished".24 Macon, the venerable senator from 
                        North Carolina
                    , was one of the few who was still loyal to his 
                  
                     20
                            Annals of Congress, 18 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 1028.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., 18 Cong., 2 Sess., p. 231.
                  
                     22
                            Messages and Papers of the Presidents, II, p. 298-299.
                  
                            23
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     24
                            
                                Madison
                             to 
                                Van
                             Buren, September 20, 1826, in the Writings of James 
                                    Madison
                                
                     , IX. p. 255.
               
                     earlier convictions. He, "rose with a full heart to
                    say goodbye to an old friend whom he had always loved and admired, the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                    ".25 Thus for the short period of Adams'
                    administration there was a policy of internal improvements. During this interval, Congress and the
                    President cooperated harmoniously on a constructive plan. At no other time did this occur. The Board
                    of Engineers created in 1824 surveyed cities for improvement and furnished Congress with information
                    which it used as a basis for legislation. During Adams' administration more money was
                    appropriated for internal improvements than had been granted during all of the previous
                        administrations.26
            
            The wide-open policy of Adams with regard to internal improvements was in theory closed by Jackson
                    when he became president. He furnished no leadership, had no clear-cut policy and denied to Congress
                    the exercise of the power which would have compensated for his vacillation. While Jackson had been a
                    member of the Senate he had voted for six internal improvement bills, three of which were opposed by
                    nearly all of the strict constructionists. While he was president he vetoed an equal number of bills
                    which embodied the identical principles of those which he had supported while in the upper chamber.
                    By the veto of the Maysville Road Bill, he reverted to 
                        Monroe
                    's interpretation of the Constitution with regard to internal improvements and
                    specified that in order to qualify for federal aid, projects must be "national not state,
                    general not local". Old adherents of state rights were overjoyed. At a dinner given in
                    honor of John Randolph, the guests toasted, "The rejection of the Maysville Road Bill; it
                    falls upon the ears like the music of other days".27 Col. Robert Y.
                    Hayne of 
                        South Carolina
                     spoke of it as the "most auspicious event which had taken place in the history
                    of the country for years past".28 John Quincy Adams closeted himself
                    with his diary. 
                  
                     25
                            Annals of Congress, 20 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 634.
                  
                            26
                            
                        
                           Appropriations for roads before Adams' presidency
                           $1,935,625.00
                        
                        
                           Appropriations for roads during Adams' presidency
                           923,465.26
                        
                        
                           Appropriations for canals before Adams presidency
                           325,000.00
                        
                        
                           Appropriations for canals during Adams' presidency
                           1,503,500.00
                        
                        
                           Amount of land granted for canals before Adams' presidency
                           22,800.00
                        
                        
                           Amount of land granted for canals during Adams' presidency
                           1,750,437.79
                        
                        
                           Appropriations for river and harbor improvement before Adams'
                                        presidency
                           231,572.16
                        
                        
                           Appropriations for river and harbor improvement during Adams'
                                        presidency
                           1,340,049.63
                        
                     
                        
                  
                     27 John Spencer Bassett, The Life of Andrew Jackson
                            (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1905), I, p. 490.
                  
                     28 Martin 
                                Van
                             Buren, Autobiography, American Historical Association Report, 1918, II, p. 326.
               
                     To it he confided that Jackson, "to promote his
                    candidacy and obtain western support had truckled to it (internal improvement policy) for a while
                    and had now taken a decided stand against it",29 while Calhoun had
                    "turned his back upon it", and "Webster had silently given it
                    up".
            The bolts of Jackson's thunder against internal improvements were, however, much less
                    destructive than their detonations indicated. The joy of the strict constructionists must have
                    vanished before their chief left office, for while he had been most emphatic in his denunciations of
                    internal improvements he had also been most liberal in extending federal aid. Practically one third
                    of all the federal money spent for internal improvements from 1789 to 1861 was raised during the
                    eight years of Jackson's administrations. Yet, by his Maysville veto, he had stemmed the
                    tide of federal appropriations for roads and canals, rivers and harbors. In 1831 the House committee
                    on internal improvements reported bills which called for $104,243,740.71.31 Had Henry Clay been President, the fondest hopes of the enthusiasts for internal
                    improvements might well have been realized.
            It was during the presidencies of Adams and Jackson that Indiana profited most from federal
                    assistance which was limited to the gift of five per cent of the land sales in the state, and aid in
                    the construction of four major projects. Receipts under the five per cent sales began pouring into
                    the treasury of the state in 1820 and continued until 1856 when the total amount from this source
                    reached $620,352.92.32 Three-fifths of this sum was spent for roads
                    and canals within the state and two-fifths for roads leading to it.33
            
            In 1827 Congress granted a right of way for a wagon road across Indiana from 
                        Michigan City
                     to 
                        Madison
                    
                    via
                    
                  South Bend, Logansport, Indianapolis
                and 
                        Greensburg
                    . This cession also included a section of contiguous land for every mile of the road,
                    which when surveyed gave the state 221,013.35 acres.34 This land was to be sold
                    at not less than $1.25 an acre and the 
                  
                     29
                            Memoirs of John Quincy Adams, edited by Charles Francis Adams, (12 vols., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1874-1877), VIII, p. 283.
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., p. 172.
                  
                     31
                            Reports of 
                                    United States
                                 Engineers, 21 Cons., 2 Sess. House Ex. Doc., 30, pt.
                            I, p. 11.
                  
                     32 "Statement of Expenditures and Appropriations for Public
                            Buildings, Rivers and Harbors, Forts, Arsenals and Armories and Other Public
                            Works". Sen. Ex. Doc., 196, 47 Cons., 1 Sess., p. 296.
                  
                     33
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, III, p. 290.
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., IV, p. 234.
               
                     proceeds were to be applied to the construction of the road.
            More important than any other internal improvement project within the Hoosier state was the
                    Cumberland Road. The eastern terminus of the road was Cumberland, 
                        Maryland
                    , where construction began during Jefferson's second administration. Slowly it
                    made its way westward and eventually reached 
                        St. Louis
                    . The appropriations ceased while the highway was in process of construction in Indiana,
                    and none of it was ever macadamized beyond the western boundary of the state. It was the main artery
                    of transport and communication between the East and the West. The total cost of its construction was
                        $6,832,945.05.35 Of this sum $1,135,000 was applied
                    within Indiana.36
            
            Due to the congestion of shipping in 
                        New Orleans
                    , commodities from the 
                        Wabash
                     region were frequently delayed in reaching their eastern destination. Consequently a
                    persistent agitation was carried on by Indiana's representatives in Congress with a view to
                    the cutting of a canal that would unite the Wabash River with Lake
                        Erie. A beginning was made in 1824 when Congress granted a strip of land 320 feet
                    wide through the public domain for the construction of the pro-posed canal. This offer was, however,
                    rejected by Indiana and new efforts were made to secure federal assistance which resulted in the act
                    of March 2, 1827, which donated a canal route and the alternate sections to a depth of five miles on
                    each side of the canal. Four subsequent grants of land were made which brought the total land
                    donation for this enterprise to 1,695,376.74 acres.37 Upon more extensive
                    surveys it was discovered that a part of the canal would extend into 
                        Ohio
                    . Congress accordingly authorized Indiana to convey to its sister state the lands within 
                        Ohio
                     to be used by it for the construction 
                  
                     35
                            Sen. Ex. Doc., 196, 47 Cong., 1 Sess., D. 320.
                  
                     36 "Letter from the Secretary of the Treasury", Sen. Ex. Doc., 12, 43 Cong., 1 Sess., D. 54.
                  
                     37 Dates and amounts of the land grants made to Indiana for the 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie Canal: 
                        
                           March 2, 1827
                           527,271.24 acres
                        
                        
                           May, 9, 1830
                           29,552.50 acres
                        
                        
                           February 27, 1841
                           259,368.48 acres
                        
                        
                           August 29, 1842
                           766,630.19 acres
                        
                        
                           May 9, 1848
                           113,348.33 acres
                        
                        
                           
                           1,695,367.74 acres
                        
                     
                            
                        Statement Showing Land Grants Made by Congress in Aid of Construction of
                                    Railroads, Wagon Roads, Canals and Internal Improvements, 1888. The estimated
                                cost of the construction of the Canal was $991,000. See Logan Esarey, Internal Improvements in Indiana (
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1912), p. 358. The estimated value of the land that Indiana received was
                                $1,250,000. See Margaret Duden, "Internal Improvements in Indiana,
                                1818 to 1846," in Indiana Magazine of History, V, p.
                        161.
                  
               
                     of its share of the canal. In 1834 Congress also voted
                    $28,337.55 additional to aid in the construction of the canal.
            Indiana received federal assistance for the improvement of one harbor only. Six appropriations for
                    the harbor at 
                        Michigan City
                    , amounting to a total of $156,204.92, were made from 1836 to 1855.38
            
            Following the period of Jackson, the usual inconsistencies were pursued during the succeeding
                    administrations. 
                        Van
                     Buren professed to have accepted the policies of Jackson. Nevertheless he approved
                    internal improvement bills of purely local concern.39 He placed his signature to
                    river and harbor bills, making larger appropriations than any that had been passed before his
                        administration.40 Tyler did nothing to clarify or formulate a policy, but
                    Polk when he entered the White House pursued a course strikingly in contrast with that of John
                    Quincy Adams. While the latter had invited and encouraged such legislation, Polk with one exception,
                    and that was a military road bill for the army during the Mexican War, vetoed every internal
                    improvement bill which was submitted for his consideration.41 He interpreted the
                    Constitution more strictly on this subject than any of his predecessors had done or any of his
                    successors were to do. On the last night of his term he went to his office armed with a veto for any
                    internal improvement bill which Congress might pass. During his administration the internal
                    improvement enthusiasts lost more ground than they had gained in almost half a century of agitation.
            But the vacillation continued. On August 30,1852, Fill-more placed his signature to a river and
                    harbor bill which provided for the expenditure of a larger sum than did any other measure passed
                    before the Civil War.42 He granted what Polk had been unwilling to allow. Pierce
                    attempted to reverse this policy by vetoing five river and harbor bills on the ground of
                    unconstitutionality. After almost sixty years of continuous agitation Congress found itself for the
                    first time sufficiently united on this question to pass all of them over the executive veto. Not
                    only had the Presidents failed in executive leader-ship, but they had been contradictory in their
                    interpretation 
                  
                     38
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, IV, p. 716.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., V, p. 260.
                  
                            40
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., IX, p. 151.
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., X, p. 56.
               
                     of the Constituion as to the powers possessed by Congress over
                    internal improvements, while the national legislature did little to compensate for executive
                    deficiency. There was always a strong opposition which supported the Presidents in denying to
                    Congress the power to execute a system of internal improvements. Even the staunchest state rights
                    men were willing to compromise their convictions for appropriations within their own states. Senator
                    Branch of 
                        North Carolina
                    , emphatically denied the right to Congress to make internal improvements, but when an
                    appropriation for improvements within his own state was included in the river and harbor bill for
                    1825, he confessed that he would not let a morbid sensibility prevent his accepting the boon.43 Whereupon Senator John Chandler of 
                        Maine
                     cried: "Help, Lord—the Mighty Man Faileth; this was the first bone
                    held to the gentleman and he bit".44 There were others less frank but
                    equally susceptible. The Democratic Convention of 1835 included a resolution in its platform denying
                    to Congress the right to effect internal improvements yet each year saw the national legislature
                    violate the party pledge. Presidential candidates were either evasive or irresponsible. In 1848 the
                    Democratic Convention declared "that the Constitution does not confer upon Congress the
                    power to commence and carry on a general system of internal improvement". In accepting the
                    platform of 1848, Cass declared he adhered to it as firmly as he approved it cordially. Yet, when he
                    had been in the senate he had voted for every internal improvement bill that had come up.45 It is not so surprising that some of the abler men of the day were out of
                    sympathy with such lack of consistency and absence of policy. When the constitutional objection was
                    brought against a bill for internal improvements in 1852, 
                        Clay
                     in his last speech on this subject asked how long it would be "before the
                    people would rise up en masse and trample down your little hairsplitting distinctions about what is
                    national and state and demand what is fair and just." Seven years later Stephen A. Douglas
                    in exasperation declared that "this whole system has proved a failure".46
            
            
               
                  43
                        Congressional Debates, 19 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 714.
               
                        44
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  45
                        Congressional Globe, 30 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 709.
               
                  46
                        Ibid., 34 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 1551.
            
            
            
               
                        Distribution of Appropriations for Rivers and Harbors, Roads and Canals
                    
               
                  
                  Canals
                  Rivers and Harbors
                  Roads
                  Total
               
               
                  1802
                  
                  30,000.00
                  6,000.00
                  36,000.00
               
               
                  1805
                  
                  5,888.79
                  
                  5,888.79
               
               
                  1906
                  
                  448.71
                  18,400.00
                  18,848.71
               
               
                  1809
                  25,000.00
                  
                  12,200.48
                  37,200.48
               
               
                  1811
                  
                  
                  6,000.00
                  6,000.00
               
               
                  1812
                  
                  
                  800.00
                  800.00
               
               
                  1816
                  
                  
                  18,000.00
                  18,000.00
               
               
                  1817
                  
                  
                  4,000.00
                  4,000.00
               
               
                  1818
                  
                  
                  10,000.00
                  10,000.00
               
               
                  1819
                  
                  6,500.00
                  
                  6,500.00
               
               
                  1820
                  
                  
                  3,300.00
                  3,300.00
               
               
                  1821
                  
                  2,650.00
                  1,000.00
                  3,650.00
               
               
                  1822
                  
                  34,200.00
                  
                  34,200.00
               
               
                  1823
                  
                  6,000.00
                  11,420.00
                  17,420.00
               
               
                  1824
                  
                  115,000.00
                  58,000.00
                  173,000.00
               
               
                  1825
                  300,000.00
                  65,084.56
                  63,000.00
                  428,084.56
               
               
                  1826
                  270,000.00
                  146,404.90
                  21,000.00
                  437,404.90
               
               
                  1827
                  
                  184,471.44
                  79,035.18
                  263,506.62
               
               
                  1828
                  1,000,000.00
                  660,295.29
                  26,760.95
                  1,687,056.24
               
               
                  1929
                  333,500.00
                  348,878.00
                  42,000.00
                  724,378.00
               
               
                  1830
                  10,000.00
                  188,942.77
                  128,144.29
                  327,487.06
               
               
                  1831
                  
                  631,551.84
                  46,014.75
                  677,566.59
               
               
                  1832
                  3,000.00
                  712,198.11
                  113,000.00
                  828,198.11
               
               
                  1833
                  170,000.00
                  679,073.68
                  191,113.30
                  1,040,186.98
               
               
                  1834
                  35,210.82
                  780,288.63
                  118,500.00
                  933,999.45
               
               
                  1835
                  
                  505,057.03
                  218,000.00
                  723,057.08
               
               
                  1836
                  
                  1,171,669.36
                  100,000.00
                  1,271,669.36
               
               
                  1837
                  150,000.00
                  1,381,722.00
                  20,313.00
                  1,552,035.00
               
               
                  1838
                  100,000.00
                  1,556,438.53
                  83,879.53
                  1,740,318.06
               
               
                  1839
                  50,000.00
                  46,110.00
                  102,125.67
                  198,285.67
               
               
                  1840
                  
                  1,225.68
                  6,000.00
                  7,225.68
               
               
                  1841
                  
                  101,869.00
                  5,000.00
                  106,869.00
               
               
                  1842
                  
                  110,000.00
                  
                  110,000.00
               
               
                  1843
                  
                  149,471.57
                  
                  149,471.57
               
               
                  1844
                  
                  639,919.75
                  15,000.00
                  708,919.75
               
               
                  1845
                  5,000.00
                  23,373.04
                  41,000.00
                  69,373.04
               
               
                  1846
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  1847
                  
                  14,876.47
                  100,000.00
                  114,876.47
               
               
                  1848
                  
                  40,000.00
                  
                  40,000.00
               
               
                  1849
                  
                  6,500.00
                  
                  6,500.00
               
               
                  1850
                  
                  100,000.00
                  30,800.00
                  130,800.00
               
               
                  1851
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  1852
                  
                  2,212,790.00
                  
                  2,232,790.00
               
               
                  1853
                  
                  50,877.42
                  92,122.05
                  142,999.47
               
               
                  1854
                  
                  190,000.00
                  122,000.00
                  212,000.00
               
               
               
                  1855
                  
                  172,236.61
                  369,372.92
                  541,613.53
               
               
                  1866
                  
                  785,000.00
                  50,000.00
                  835,000.00
               
               
                  1857
                  
                  6,919.38
                  662,495.01
                  669,414.39
               
               
                  1858
                  
                  2,502.11
                  180,000.00
                  182,502.11
               
               
                  1859
                  
                  672.75
                  100,000.00
                  100,672.75
               
               
                  
                  2,472,110.82
                  13,972,457.42
                  3,386,301.13
                  19,830,869.37
               
            
            
               [Compiled from the 
                     
                                United States
                             Statutes at Large: "Letter of the Secretary of the Treasury
                        Communicating Information Called for by Resolutions of the Senate of December 2, 1873, as to the
                        Amount Expended in Aid of the Construction of Public Works in the States and
                        Territories," Sen. Ex. Doc. No. 12, 48 Cong. 1 Sess.;
                        "Statement of Appropriations for Public Buildings, Rivers and Harbors, Forts and
                        Arsenals, Armories and Other Public Works from March 4, 1789 to June 80, 1882," Sen. Ex. Doc. No. 196, 47 Cong. 1 Sess.]
            
         
         
         
            David McDonald
            By his Daughter FLORA MCDONALD KETCHAM
            David McDonald was born in Bourbon County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , on May 4, 1803. He lived with his father on a farm till he was fourteen years of age,
                    working through the crop season and going to a country school in winter. Nothing was taught there
                    but reading, writing, geography, and arithmetic.
            In an autobiographical sketch are found these comments relative to his later education: 
                        I think no one could beat me spelling. My parents were proud of my attainments….
                            After we moved to Indiana in 1817, I never went to school but 12 weeks more. 12 weeks I
                            studied English Grammar and Blair's Rhetoric at the school of Cyrus McIntire, a
                            young Presbyterian clergyman, in the town of 
                                Washington
                            . What ever else I have learned, I have learned without a teacher.
                        At 
                        Washington, Daviess
                                    County
                     , Indiana there was, about 1819 or 1820, a small County
                            Library, I worked for a dollar, and paid it to the Library for the use of books; and I read
                            nearly all the books in it. Among these were Hume's 
                                England
                            , Rollin's Ancient History, Josephus, The Spectator, Pope's
                            Works, Robertson's History, Swift's Work and a few novels. Mornings,
                            evenings and at noon when the horses were resting from the plough, I devoured these volumes.
                            This first fixed my taste for reading, though long before I had read over and over again 
                                Milton
                            's Poetic Works. I believe 
                                Milton
                             was the first poet I ever read and ad-mired….1
                  
                    
            
            David was one of twelve sisters and brothers, and he speaks of them all as loving books and poetry.
                    He speaks of his father as being of brilliant wit and well educated for a farmer. There is a touch
                    of poetic beauty in the description which he gives of his life after his father had migrated to
                    Indiana: 
                        The farm was wholly unimproved, wild woods and wild prairie. On the south was a sparse
                            settlement, on the north an unbroken wilderness. We pitched our tents in the woods; in two
                            days or three we had a log cabin built; in two or three weeks we had twelve acres of prairie
                            land planted in corn. Our cows furnished us rivers of milk. The woods furnished us venison
                            abundantly. The land flowed with milk and honey. Soon the prairies were red with
                            strawberries. Then came wild raspberries and blackberries and grapes and plums. And so we
                            fared sumptuously every day. And then it was all so romantic: the wolves howled and the
                            whippoorwill 
                        
                           1 Autobiographical sketch. On July 20, 1860, Judge McDonald
                                    wrote a brief account of his life to that date. Sometime during the latter part of
                                    1868, he added nine pages to the thirty-six which he had written in 1860.
                     
                             chanted around us every night; and what sport we daily
                            had in hunting the deer and turkeys and bees. In fine we soon had a good farm opened, and
                            everything comfortable around us.2
                  
                    
            
            This generous and aspiring youth whose studies placed him ahead of his playmates soon felt a desire
                    for something beyond, and a determination to go higher. After he reached manhood he was occupied
                    with preaching and school teaching. He wished a wider field of duty than the simple round of duties
                    on his father's farm. On October 21, 1828, he was married to Mary R. Miller. Of his
                    situation and prospects at that time he says: 
                        I was then a schoolmaster in 
                                Washington
                            , Indiana. I was worth about $100, she [his bride] about
                            $50. We went to housekeeping in 
                                Washington
                             in November 1828. About that time a young lawyer residing there advised me to
                            study law, and offered me the use of his books for that purpose… and on the first
                            day of January 1829, I commenced studying law. During that year I studied eight hours per
                            day and taught a school.
                        In Feb. 1830, I got a license to practise in the Circuit Courts. Immediately I opened a law
                            office in 
                                Washington
                            . The first year was most discouraging; I lost nearly all my cases; and my fees
                            amounted to only about $250. But after that year, I had plenty of business and
                            fair success.3
                  
                    
            
            Mr. McDonald was in 
                        Indianapolis
                     as a member of the Legislature during the session of 1833-1834. He felt that it was
                    time very uselessly spent and never wished to go back. At that early date there seem to have been
                    irregularities among those gentlemen who were in politics that disgusted him. He was elected Judge
                    of the tenth Circuit Court of Indiana in 1838 which place he led for fourteen years. He moved to 
                        Bloomington
                    , one of the ten county seats within his Circuit, in 1841. He was the first professor of
                    law at Indiana University. In regard to this he states: "My connection with the university
                    was highly advantageous to me, as it brought me [into] intimate [contact] with that great and good
                    man, Dr. Andrew Wylie, and with other learned men." During that time he picked up a good
                    deal of learning and studied Latin without a teacher.
            An article in the Indiana Daily Student, written by William Pitt Murray, now dead,
                    includes the following: 
                  
                     2 Quoted by Albert G. Porter in his review of McDonald's life
                            at the funeral of the Judge. See 
                                Indianapolis
                             News, Aug. 27, 1869.
                  
                     3 Autobiographical sketch.
               
                    
                    
                        The teachers in the Law department were the Hon. David McDonald, judge of the Court of Common
                            Pleas of the 
                                Bloomington
                             District and Judge William T. Otto, of the New 
                                Albany
                             District. And now after fifty years, I revere and honor the memory of these men
                            with love and affection. It was their ambition to make lawyers out of their students, who
                            would rank among the first in the country; I admit that the material was not always
                            first-rate. Judge McDonald was one of the kindest men that ever lived, and if the members of
                            his class had been his own sons he could not have taken more interest in them,—in
                            his class room a strict disciplinarian; outside, a boy with us…. The Judge every
                            two or three weeks would at the close of his Friday lecture say: "Gentlemen I will
                            be at home tomorrow evening." We knew that this meant a dozen or more village girls
                            would be there.4
                  
                    
            
            When Judge McDonald retired from Indiana University, he was honored with a degree. "That
                    Institution, against my positive remonstrance," he wrote later, "conferred on me
                    the degree of LL.D.—I never thought I was entitled to any such honor."5 During 1855-1856, the Judge was a member of the Board of Trustees of Indiana
                    University.
            He had moved to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1854, soon after which his name appeared as one of the firm of "McDonald
                    and Porter." Albert G. Porter, his law partner, was one of his oldest friends. In 1856 the
                    Trustees of Asbury University at 
                        Greencastle
                     elected him president of that College. In regard to this he asserts: "Indeed I
                    never desired College honors, having never received a collegiate education.6
            
            Judge McDonald made several trips to 
                        Washington
                    , each time keeping a diary. His first trip to the national capital was taken in 1858.
                    His diary record is interesting after seventy-four years. Today it seems strange to read:
                    "My journey through 
                        Ohio
                     today showed a poor, marshy country. I saw no improvements and no farms equal to the
                    best in Indiana." At times in 
                        Ohio
                    , the train made forty miles an hour. When running along the Juniata River in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , the rate was thirty miles an hour. All the way from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to Harrisburgh the traveler considered the country to be wretched, with not a good farm
                    to be seen, and "miserable 
                  
                     4
                            Indiana Daily Student, Dec. 8, 1898. Among additional items presented
                            by' Murray in his communication, he explained that the law students at Indiana
                            University paid tuition from which the law professors received their sole compensation, as
                            no salaries were paid to them by the University.
                  
                     5 Autobiographical sketch.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid. Preceding the above statement, Judge McDonald gave reasons for
                            declining the offer of the presidency: "I declined' the offer because I
                            was not an orthodox Methodist, and because my wife was no Methodist at all." Mrs.
                            McDonald was a Presbyterian. dge McDonald held Unitarian beliefs, though he was a member of
                            a Methodist church.
               
                     patches enclosed with wretched crooked rail fences."
                    This was three quarters of a century ago and time and toil have transformed all that unattractive
                    picture.
            On December 28, 1858, McDonald visited the Supreme Court rooms. He recorded his first impressions:
                    "After sitting there a while, the judges marched in headed by the Chief Justice. They wore
                    black gowns. The impression the first sight of them gave me was that of weary, worn out, feeble old
                    men whose places would be rather in chimney corners than here." The Hoosier attorney was
                    then seeking the privilege of practising before the federal courts. In regard to this, he wrote of
                    the outcome: "Mr. Richard Thompson moved the ad-mission. The Chief Justice assented. I
                    walked forward looking as big as possible. The clerk swore me—charged me
                    $6.50. I paid it—took my seal and license—and went to
                    dinner!"
            Of the Judge's visit to 
                        Washington
                     an entry of January 1, 1859, sounds familiar: 
                        I staid at 
                                Brown
                            's Hotel till 12 M. Then with J. Hughes I went to the
                            President's. Everybody was there. With the crowd, hat in hand, we pressed along
                            from room to room till we were in the Presence. Here he was—James
                            Buchanan—a large, tall, gray-haired majestic looking old man. He shook my hand
                            cordially, was "very glad to see Judge McDonald of Indiana" indicated for
                            me to pass on—and all was over. Then his Niece, Miss Lane, took me by the hand,
                            said pretty cordial things—we then pressed on and soon found ourselves outside
                                again.8
                  
                    
            
            In 1862, McDonald made application to President Lincoln for the place of federal judge for the
                    Indiana District. He made his address directly to Mr. Lincoln and his letter asking for the place is
                    unique for its frankness and independence. To Mr. Lincoln, he wrote: 
                        I desire to be appointed 
                                United States
                             District Judge to fill the vacancy occasioned by the death of Judge Huntington.
                            A gentleman professing to know, lately told me that no one could get an office from you
                            without personally seeing you. I do not believe it. I cannot suppose you so weak as to favor
                            the most boisterous beggar. I shall, therefore not annoy you with my presence. Indeed, my
                            patriotism has not led me either to besiege the house of the President at 
                                Springfield
                             or to lay wait for you at the White House. This omission will not, I hope,
                            operate unfavorably 
                        
                           7 Diary of David McDonald. The Judge made trips to Washington
                                    D.C. in 1858, 1862 and 1864. In each instance, he kept a rather full journal of the
                                    journeys to and fro and of his stay in the national capital. These journals are
                                    preserved in the family. The first trip extended from Dec. 14, 1858 to Jan. 7, 1869;
                                    the second, from June 9 to June 19, 1862; the third, from Sept. 5 to Sept. 11, 1864;
                                    the fourth, from Dec. 1 to Dec. 15, 1864.
                        
                           8 Diary, Jan. 1, 1869. The J. Hughes mentioned was James
                                    Hughes of 
                                        Bloomington
                                    , Indiana, then a Democratic member of the national House.
                     
                             to my present application. None of those who, like
                            houseflies have followed you for the last two years withersoever you went, have felt more
                            regard for you than I have,—nor can I see that because you have already given
                            distinguished place to one or two citizens of Indiana, you ought therefore to favor them a
                            second time. I was a Henry Clay Whig as long as whiggery lasted. When it died I went to the
                            Republicans as the best thing I could do. You may remember that I rode sixty miles from a
                            court where I met you to vote for Henry Clay. I have never committed the sin of democracy
                            giving all my efforts to my profession. I have not been much of a politician and while I
                            concede that politicians ought to be preferred in politics, I claim for those who have
                            followed the law only a like preference in judicial office. I am too modest to mention my
                            attainments in the law and too proud to plead poverty. I hope you will appoint the best man.
                            But if you fail to appoint me, I shall be sorry both on your account and on my own.9
                  
                    
            
            This letter did not result in the appointment of Judge Mc-Donald. Caleb B. Smith resigned his place
                    as Secretary of the Interior to accept the vacant judgeship. When Smith died in January 1864, the
                    Hon. Albert S. White10 was appointed to the coveted place on the bench. Early in
                    September 1864, Judge White died. This time, McDonald journeyed eastward to confer directly with the
                    President. He left 
                        Indianapolis
                     on September 5, carrying with him a few hastily collected recommendations. After
                    reaching the capital, he obtained possession of certain other testimonials that had been filed with
                    the Attorney General in 1862. Armed with these he called on Lincoln. The judgeship was not promised,
                    but the applicant left for his home feeling hopeful.11
            
            The first interview with the President occurred on September 9. A few weeks later, in December 1864,
                    Judge McDonald once more traveled to 
                        Washington
                     in war-time. Though of opposite politics, Senator Thomas A. Hendricks interested
                    him-self in his fellow Hoosier. The Senator and the Judge went together to see Lincoln at 2:30 P.M.
                    on December 6, but, though they waited until sundown, they were unable to gain an audience. In the
                    evening of the same day, they met with success. The Judge's diary gives a brief account of
                    this White House visit: 
                        At about 8 o'clock P.M. Senator Hendricks and I went again to the 
                        
                           9 Copy of letter to President Lincoln.
                        
                           10 Albert S. White had served in Congress from Indiana in both
                                    House (1837-1839) and Senate (1839-1845). He was commissioned 
                                        United States
                                     Judge for the District of Indiana on Jan. 18, 1864. He died on Sept. 4,
                                    1864.
                        
                           11 Diary, Sept. 9, 1864.
                     
                             President's House. After waiting a long time
                            Hendricks was called in. He had a long talk with the President about me. Then I was called
                            in. The President said he had thought of making me judge in McLean's place. This he
                            said was at the request of Bishop Simpson. Afterwards he said he had thought seriously of me
                            when he appointed Smith, and also when he had appointed White. He said he cared nothing
                            about recommendations: He said in fine, everything from which I might infer that he would
                            appoint me without promising it directly. I feel sure he will do it. Yet the doubt and
                            uncertainty are painful.12
                  
                    
            
            Senator Henry S. Lane was, of course, interested in the appointment of a federal judge for the
                    Indiana District. When Judge McDonald first encountered Lane, he did not get much comfort from him.
                    In regard to the attitude of the Senator, McDonald records: "He says he has recommended
                    several of us to the President for the judgeship and now having done his whole duty, he says he
                    leaves it to the President to do his!!!" Several days passed after Hendricks had taken
                    McDonald to see Lincoln with no developments. Meanwhile Judge James Hughes, once a bitter enemy but
                    now a close friend of McDonald, was without success constantly making attempts to see the President.
                    On Monday, December 12, Lane was privileged to carry good news to his able but anxious constituent:
                        
                        I went to the Capitol this morning. There I met Judge Wright and Dan Mace. They hinted to me
                            that I would be appointed Judge that day. Then Henry S. Lane came to me looking wise. He
                            spoke thus "The President sent for me this morning. I went. He asked me if there
                            was any good reason why McDonald should not be appointed as Judge? I answered, none in the
                            world. Then said the President, I will appoint him."13
                  
                    
            
            On the way home, the car in which Judge McDonald was riding left the track, broke loose from the
                    train and turned over. This accident occurred during the night and great confusion reigned for
                    several minutes. No one was seriously injured. McDonald and his fellow passengers succeeded in
                    getting out of the car and, having successfully avoided other dangers, were soon on board the train
                    again, which had returned to the scene after running a short distance down the line. McDonald 
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., Dec. 6, 1864.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., Dec. 12, 1864. Hughes was appointed a Judge of the 
                                United States
                             Court of Claims by Buchanan in 1860. He supported Breckinridge for President in
                            the contest of that year. After the formation of the Confederacy he was an ardent Union man.
                            He retained his judgeship until the end of 1864, when he resigned. It is hard to identify
                            the Judge Wright mentioned. Joseph A. Wright may have been in 
                                Washington
                             between the time of his service as a Commissioner to the Hamburg Exposition and
                            his second mission to Prussia, but he was not a Judge. Daniel Mace of 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana, who had been a member of the national House from 1851 to 1857 was
                            temporarily in 
                                Washington
                             in December of 1864.
               
                     had lost his cane and his new $13 hat was
                    "smashed into a cocked hat", but otherwise he was safe. "I was
                    joyful", he wrote, "nearly as thankful as yesterday when I learned that
                    'Uncle Abraham' had made me a U.S. Judge."14
            
            In 1868, about a year before his death, Judge McDonald declared that he considered his appointment as
                    District Judge the "most fortunate circumstance" in his life. For ten years, he
                    had practised his profession in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . These were strenuous years, and his work had become a heavy burden. As Judge, he
                    promised himself "many happy years of easy work and leisure." He lived but little
                    more than four and one-half years after his selection to the District Judgeship, however, years of
                    hard labor, ill-health and other afflictions.15
            
            In April, 1866, he was taken with some form of spinal disease which sadly affected him. Sometimes he
                    was unable to attend to official business and never without suffering. He died on August 25, 1869,
                    of what would today be called typhoid-dysentery. Medical science could now have controlled it
                    readily. He not only performed the arduous duties of his judicial station, increased fourfold after
                    the passage of the Bankrupt Law, but actually engaged in the formidable task of revising and
                    preparing his judicial opinions in important cases for publication. When urged to desist from this
                    great labor and take a journey for his health, he showed impatience and declared his duties were not
                    burdensome and that he was not at all overworked. He had learned to work so incessantly that the
                    briefest respite from labor seemed to him like idleness. He loved his profession with a devoted love
                    and revered the memory of great men who had made that profession illustrious. In his hours of
                    relaxation he would turn with fondness to the names of great lawyers whose memory he tenderly
                    cherished.
            At the funeral of Judge McDonald, his friend and law partner, Albert G. Porter, gave a sketch of his
                    life. "Delicacy", declared Mr. Porter, "does not compell us to suppress
                    the mention of any vice. His life was stainless." The father of the Judge died when the
                    latter was fourteen years of age. His last words to the boy were, "My son, be a good
                    man." He kept the injunction laid upon him. The corner stones of his character, as listed
                    by Porter were: "Integrity, Honor, Magnanimity, 
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., Dec. 13, 1864.
                  
                     15 Autobiographical sketch.
               
                     Truthfulness." As a lawyer, the speaker claimed that,
                    "in clearness of statement, in closeness of reasoning, in logical analysis, in the art of
                    persuasion, perfect in the seeming absence of that art, the power of winning juries and leading them
                    to adopt his own conclusions, he never, though he did not aspire to the distinction of an orator,
                    was surpassed at the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Bar." As a judge, he was noted for his learning, his impartiality, and his
                    courtesy, especially to young lawyers, who practised before him.
            The committee selected from among the lawyers who practised before Judge McDonald's Court
                    drew up and reported the following resolution: 
                        Resolved, That the Bar of this Court held in deepest veneration the character and services of
                            the late distinguished Judge, that they remember with admiration and gratitude the ripe
                            learning, the scrupulous impartiality, the inexhaustible patience, the unwearying industry
                            and the spotless integrity, which he brought to the discharge of his judicial
                            duties….
                    
            
            In 1856 Judge McDonald published what he called McDonald's Treatise. It
                    was a work designed for the use of those local officials, so important in that day, justices of the
                    peace and constables. The work proved to be very valuable to lawyers as well, and was reprinted
                    several times. Whether regarded as a Circuit Judge, a professor of law, a practising lawyer, a
                    writer, or a federal District Judge, David McDonald was a distinguished man. His success was the
                    more remarkable when it is remembered, "how without teachers he became a scholar; how
                    without books of his own, he became an adept in literature, and how by his energy, talent and
                    perseverance, he became justly eminent as a lawyer and jurist."16
            
            
               
                  16 From the funeral sermon of the Rev. C. N. Sims. For an account of the
                        funeral services, see the 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, Aug. 27, 1869.
            
         
         
         
            A Tale of the Whitewater County1
            
            By NELLE DECKER HUBBARD
            During a period of years, embracing the close of the eighteenth and the beginning of the nineteenth
                    centuries, a great many families left 
                        North Carolina
                     for the Old Northwest. A number of them settled in southwestern 
                        Ohio
                     and in adjacent areas of Indiana. Among these colonists were several of the Whitakers.
                    A sister of William Whitaker came to Clermont County, 
                        Ohio
                    , in 1797. A few years later she married Boaz Thorp, also from 
                        North Carolina
                    . They came to Indiana Territory at about the time of the breaking out of the War of
                    1812. Not later than 1813, they settled in the Whitewater country in what is now 
                        Wayne County
                    , near the present line between that County and 
                        Fayette
                    .
            This Thorp family was among the first to locate in this neighborhood. The original family to occupy
                    land in the same congressional township was one by the name of Simonda who arrived in 1811. The
                    tradition is that there were three children in the Thorp family when they built their Indiana cabin
                    home of the usual type. The father proceeded to subdue the forest and cultivate the virgin soil. He
                    produced a comfortable living for his family. The land entered by Thorp, as described by the owner
                    and occupant of the same tract in 1895, lay near Simonds Creek, a half-mile northwest of the present
                    town of 
                        Milton
                     and ten miles north of 
                        Connersville
                    , the present county seat of 
                        Fayette County
                    .2 In the territorial period of Indiana, the Redmen still lingered
                    on the borders of the settled country, being loth to yield their favorite haunts to the possession
                    of White pioneers.
            In the fall of 1814, as accurately, perhaps, as the date can be known, the Thorp family was stricken
                    with a sad bereavement. 
                  
                     1. Mrs. Hubbard of 
                                Brazil
                            , Indiana, having read the story contributed by Mrs. Thurman. "The 
                                Fall Creek
                             Tragedy", was moved to send in this story of the spiriting away of the
                            little Thorp girl. Mrs. Hubbard is writing a history of the Hendrix family. Her mother was a
                            daughter of John Hendrix, a pioneer related to the Thorp family. The story here published
                            will form a part of Mrs. Hubbard's volume, and all rights are reserved by her.
                  
                     2 It seems there can be little doubt in regard to the location of the
                            tract as indicated above. However, there is a tradition in the Whitaker family that Born
                            Thorp lived on the West Fork of Whitewater River, about a mile and a half slightly northwest
                            of 
                                Connersville
                            . The Rev. Sharpe stated that the home was located about two miles above 
                                Connersville
                             near the West Fork (History of 
                                Fayette County
                            , 1885). The land entered and improved by Boaz Thorp, and where the child was
                            stolen, was purchased by John Callaway, and his son George W. Callaway now owns and occupies
                            it.
               
                     The eldest child, a daughter, was stolen and carried into
                    captivity by Indians. Tradition puts the child's age at four years. At the time of her
                    seizure, the little girl was out at play with the other children who returned to the cabin crying
                    and trying to relate what had happened.
            The mother's grief was great and her lamentations attracted attention from the Simonds
                    family. The alarm was given, the father was quickly found, and, aided by neighbors, search was
                    instituted. The moccasin trail was soon discovered in the soft earth along Simonds Creek and at the
                    crossing. The tracks led off toward the East Fork of White River. The searchers
                    went beyond this stream, perhaps as far as 
                        Muncie
                    -town. The child wore at the time of her capture a blue gingham dress, then regarded as
                    a fine garment.
            In a History of 
                            Fayette County
                        
               , published in 1885, reference is made to the statement of a Reverend Sharpe of
                            
                  Lebanon, Ohio
               , which he repeated to a citizen of 
                        Connersville
                    , in which he claimed that he was a guest in the Thorp home when the little daughter was
                    carried away. The Rev. Sharpe was a pioneer Methodist preacher, riding the Whitewater Circuit at the
                    time, according to his own testimony. He remembered the event as having occurred either in 1813 or
                    1814.
            The bereaved father, Boaz Thorp, spent several years in a protracted search for his missing daughter.
                    He traveled over a large area in the guise of an Indian trader, visiting Miami and Pottawattomie
                    tribes in their villages and encampments. The long quest proved unfruitful, but the family continued
                    to hope that some day the lost daughter might be found. To get away from scenes that stirred up such
                    sad memories, the family, after some years, moved to a new home in 
                        Fayette County
                    .
            After the lapse of many years, Mr. and Mrs. Thorp were led to believe from information received that
                    their daughter was still alive and with the Miami Indians in the 
                        Wabash
                     country of north-central Indiana. Thither they went in the hope of finding the object
                    of their affections. They were rewarded by finding the daughter, now grown to womanhood, near
                    Ashland, 
                        Wabash County
                    . She was the wife of a Miami Indian, Captain Dixon. She was identified by a scar on her
                    body, which had been caused by the dropping of a coal of fire from the mother's pipe when
                    an infant. The young woman was questioned, but showed not even the faintest recollection  of her early child life at the frontier home in the Whitewater country.
                    Neither did she manifest any desire to leave the people among whom she had lived.
            Captain Dixon was a profligate, dissolute, and thriftless character. The daughter of Boaz Thorp was
                    said by her white neighbors to be a kind and affectionate wife and mother and polite towards her
                    neighbors. She made some exertions to educate her children. In 1850, or near that time, Captain
                    Dixon, in a drunken row with a Pottawattomie Indian, who used a heavy garden hoe as a weapon of
                    defense, suffered a fractured skull. He died the following day. A party of his tribe hauled his body
                    home on a sled. Shortly before or after his death, his wife ended her strange career by her own act.
                    She committeed suicide by drowning herself in the Mississinewa River at the mouth of Grant Creek,
                    about a half-mile distant from her Indian home.3
            
            
               
                  3. The parents of Mrs. Dixon, Boaz Thorp and wife, continued to live in 
                            Fayette County
                        . Mr. Thorp died in 1841, or about that year, and was buried in the Clum Cemetary in 
                            Columbia
                         Township, which is southwest of 
                            Connersville
                        . Mrs. Thorp died a few years later and was burled by the side of her husband. What
                        became of the other children is not known to the writer. Dr. Benaiah Thorp Callaway of 
                            Elwood
                        , Indiana, was named in honor of the bereaved family, the Thorps being highly
                        esteemed by their neighbors.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            By CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            The September number of the Indiana History Bulletin is devoted to history in the
                    high schools under the title of "High School Number." The Society is making a
                    special effort to co$oUperate with the teachers of history in the schools of Indiana and
                    to enlist them in its membership. It is extending to them the privilege of membership from
                    September, 1932 to December 31, 1933, sixteen months, upon the payment of the regular dues of two
                    dollars for one year.
            There is no reason why the Indiana Historical Society should not for this state, occupy the position
                    that the American Historical Association does for the country at large. It ought to be the clearing
                    house for historical activities in the schools as well as among men and women in other walks of
                    life. The word "Indiana" in the name of the Society ought to be construed
                    geographically rather than topically. While Indiana history is naturally emphasized and given more
                    attentian than any other field, the program of the Society ought to include the general field of
                    historical reading, study, and teaching. To an increasing extent, such subjects are being included
                    in meetings of historical societies in the state.
            The "High School Number" of the Indiana History Bulletin can be
                    secured without cost at the Historical Bureau, 334 State House. It should be read by all teachers of
                    history, especially those in the high schools of the state.
            The new State Library and Historical Building is progressing rapidly, It is on the southwest corner
                    of Senate Avenue and 
                        Ohio
                     Street, across the street to the west from the State House. The reinforced concrete
                    work has been carried to the top of the third floor, nearly the height of the finished building. The
                    contract calls for completion of the building in July of 1933. It will house the State Library, the
                    Historical Bureau, Public Archives, and the William Henry Smith Memorial Library of the Indiana
                    Historical Society.
            Annie Morrison (Mrs. David W.) Coffin, of 
                  Beverly
                        Hills, California
               , now in her
                    92nd year, sends a newspaper clipping  containing a letter which
                    she wrote many years ago concerning Morgan's Raid. Mrs. Coffin, then Miss Morrison, had
                    just graduated from Glendale College and returned to her home in 
                        Salem
                     when Morgan's Raid threatened that town. Among the many incidents recalled
                    were the saving of securities from the bank by hiding them in private houses, the preparation of a
                    bounteous lunch for the home guards drilling in the town square which was served instead to
                    Morgan's men, the filling of an empty cistern with goods from the neighboring store and
                    labelling the store "for rent," and the hiding of a Captain Thomas. There are not
                    so many survivors of the time of Morgan's Raid now living that the recollections of such
                    persons as Mrs. Coffin can be overlooked.
            The Fourteenth Annual Indiana History Conference will be held at the Claypool Hotel, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Friday, December 9, and Saturday, December 10. It will begin with the annual luncheon
                    and business meeting of the Indiana Historical Society at 12 noon on Friday and will close with the
                    annual dinner of the Society of Indiana Pioneers in the Riley Room, Saturday evening.
         
         
         
            Documents
            DIARY OF TAYLOR N. SNOW, HOOSIER FIFTY-NINER
            By ARTHUR HOMER HAYS
            
                    Introduction
                
            The memory book and diary of Taylor N. Snow stands as a tribute to the character of the man. This old
                    book, bound in sheepskin, now dog-eared and worn with use, was found in 1862 abandoned to the
                    fortunes of an old trunk. The latter reposed on the site of an old, unused camping place near the
                    point where the overland trail to old Fort Hall in 
                        Idaho
                     and that to 
                        California
                     separated. Exactly where this camping site was located no living man knows.
            The finder and preserver of this document was Benjamin F. Hawes, who, after spending some time in the
                    Boise Basin gold fields of 
                        Idaho
                    , returned part way over the old trail to meet his wife, Margaret, and his brother,
                    Fletcher A. Hawes, who were coming from 
                  Cambridge,
                            Ohio
               , to join him. From that day to
                    this, the old book has been preserved as a memento of that journey.
            Just how the old diary came to be in that old trunk may never be known. Benjamin F. Hawes, for years
                    a cattleman in the beautiful Bruneau valley of 
                        Idaho
                    , is dead. His wife is also dead. Fletcher A. Hawes, the brother, was killed by Indians
                    during the Bannoch war. Even they knew nothing of the history of the document between the last
                    entry, August 15, 1859, and the date of its finding. This leaves much that cannot be explained. We
                    read in the diary, July 31, 1859, that the Fort Hall road was passed on that day. Also, that the
                    diarist reached the Humbolt on August 6, and was still moving westward along that stream up to
                    August 15. The Hawes family came southward from Fort Hall. How did the diary find its way back to
                    the place where it was found in the trunk? What became of Taylor N. Snow? What led him to abandon
                    the diary, his companion through so many hardships?
            From the diary we find that Snow lived in Indiana until early in the year 1859, when he entered the
                    long, dangerladen trail into the trans-
                        Mississippi
                     West. His diary tells a story of hardship and heroism of interest to every
                    Hoosier—to every  American.
            In reading words written by a hand long dead, one is inspired to reverence. Here we find set down the
                    innermost thoughts of a sensitive soul, a soul wafted here and there by the breezes of an unkind
                    fate, seemingly against his will. Many of the lines written in the old book are
                    sacred—too sacred, perhaps, for living man to read.
            Taylor N. Snow was a lover of literature, and appears to have treasured in his mind the lines of such
                    poets as Shelly, Burns, Dana, and Moore. These, he quoted freely, evidently from memory, judging
                    from certain imperfections of punctuation and spelling. An amorous being was the diarist for he
                    speaks much of love. He was a philosopher, an observer of life, which, like many another man, he
                    tried vainly to interpret. He was at heart a poet but a poet without technique. He left behind
                    several of his efforts.
            Why Taylor N. Snow left Indiana is unknown. It may have been to get away from the
                    "call" to enter the ministry. Such is intimated in his diary. It may have been a
                    love affair that sent him forth. One of his rhymes, which he inscribed to Miss M. E. C., indicates
                    that he was a disappointed lover: 
                        Farewell! Mary farewell! forever I will leave you for to weep For our vows of love are broken
                            And I am going to the Peak
                        Farewell! Mary farewell! forever Tho that word is hard to speak Your [You're] the
                            one that broke those vows And I am going to the Peak
                        Farewell! Mary farewell for ever You another's hand may take For you left me all
                            alone And I am going to the Peak
                        Farewell Mary farewell forever Alas w'll soon our parting take No more I'll
                            claim you for my own For I am going to the Peak.
                    
            
            It may have been the spirit of adventure that called him away from home. The student of history will
                    recall that the Panic of 1857 had reached its height in the Middle West about  1859, sending men out in search of the rainbow's end. And too,
                    these were the days of conflict over slavery in 
                        Kansas
                    . The Lincoln-Douglas debates were fresh in men's minds, and the whole slavery
                    question was nearing armed conflict. The Civil War was in the offing. Added to this was the lure of
                    gold. The yellow metal had been discovered in the west. For ten years men had been going to 
                        California
                     by the thousands, and news of rich finds fired the heart of youth. In 1858, a rich
                    strike was made at Pikes Peak, and the following year, gold seekers started for the new field.
                    Before the end of a year, a government had been set up, and a new Territory to be called
                    "Jefferson" proposed to Congress.
            And so we find Taylor N. Snow declaring that he was "going to the Peak", ready to
                    join a vast army of seekers after adventure and wealth. While at Des Moines, he attempted to express
                    his purpose in verse. In three stansas, he said "Farewell to Indiana and to the girl he
                    left behind." His plans changed, however, and he did not go to 
                        Colorado
                     but pressed on toward 
                        California
                    .
            The girl left behind, Miss M. E. C., was evidently Mary Ellen Carskaden of Tarricopee, Indiana, whose
                    name and address appear elsewhere in the book where he kept his diary, in a list of some hundred or
                    more names with addresses. The spirit of abandon to pleasure seen in the last mentioned poem was
                    that of the moment only for the diarist was a serious man, given to things worth while.
            Snow was a young man of some standing at home. An older friend who controlled a scholarship in one of
                    the Universities of the State, probably the State University at 
                        Bloomington
                    , offered it to him in September, 1857. He probably did not take advantage of this
                    opportunity to go to college. He must have served as township trustee in 
                        Steuben
                     Township, 
                        Warren County
                    , in 1854, since he left behind a copy of a contract with a Sophia Sailor to teach a
                    term of school, the contract being signed "Taylor N. Snow". He likewise left among
                    the records of his memory book rules for the conduct of children in school, a list of subjects for
                    debate, and nine rhyming stanzas in relation to parts of speech.
            It is not possible to determine the age of Taylor N. Snow when he started on his western adventure,
                    but he must have been more than thirty years old. He stayed in Des Moines, 
                    
                        Iowa
                    , for several weeks before taking the trail for the gold country. The diary covers the
                    period from May 5 to August 15,1859. At the latter date, the entries cease. From that day forward,
                    the writer of this foreword has no information relative to the diarist. What became of Taylor N.
                    Snow, some reader of the Indiana Magazine of History may be able to reveal. The
                    entries in the diary, show the growing difficulty under which he kept his journal. At first he used
                    ink and pen, writing carefully under evident conditions of leisure and ease. But upon the hard
                    trail, we can picture him near the camp fire, writing on his knee or on the
                    ground—perhaps on the tire of a wagon wheel. Careful writing gives way to hastily
                    scribbled lines; for danger lurks near in the night. Indians are camping in the shadows. Ink and pen
                    are gone. Only the stub of a pencil remains. The diary stops abruptly with the entry of August 15.
            [THE DIARY]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Minuets [minutes] of my traveling west. I started from Demoines on the 5th day of
                                    May, 1869. I got to ride as far with Mr John Hinsey as Middle river [or] Coon River.
                                    First North River 2 Middle River 3. The 5th night [of May] I stayed within 3 miles
                                    of Indinola. Corn planted in Polk Co. & 
                                        Madison
                                    . 6th day [of May] in 
                                        Warren
                                     Con. [County]. 6th night as Eavening got in company with a man going to
                                    ring Gold Con. [Ringgold Co.], stranded 1/2 day then got in Company with Dismore
                                    & Baker [in] 
                                        Madison
                                     Co. [at] St. Charles [on] Sanel Creek. Camped 7th night [of May] 4
                                    miles west of St. Charles1
                        
                        May 8 Camped for night 3 miles east of Wnterset.2 8th night I
                                    stayed all night L. B. Husses and he told me about the note on Enoch Hickman, That
                                    he left a note again thet note in the hands of Robbert Patten. The note he left was
                                    on a Quarts mill bilden [building] 9th [or May] camped 2 miles west of Winterset for
                                    noon, 9th Camped 6 miles west for night and in company with thirty men and a Brass
                                    Band. the wether is plesant. Roads bad Country level.
                        May 10. Camped for noon at Middle River, Roads is good Land rowling fertile and corn
                                    is up. Camped 10th night at grand River in Company with thirteen wagons3 Brass Band Banjo Violin and vocal Music Roads Good a hard rain
                                    at midnight.
                        May 11 Camped for noon 1 mile west of Clark Stage Station and in 
                              
                                 1 Des Moines is in Polk Co. 
                                                Warren
                                             Co. is just to the south, of which Indianola is the County
                                            Seat. 
                                                Madison county
                                             lies to the west of 
                                                Warren
                                            . St. Charles is in the eastern edge of 
                                                Madison
                                             Co. Ringgold Co. is the second county south of 
                                                Madison
                                            . Its southern boundary is the 
                                                Missouri
                                             line. Snow did not go to Ringgold Co.
                              
                                 2 Winterset is the County Seat of 
                                                Madison
                                             Co. It lies to the west of St. Charled about ten or twelve
                                            miles.
                              
                                 3 The upper part of the Grand
                                            River drains Adair Co., which lies west of 
                                                Madison
                                             Co.
                           
                                     site of Fontinell Roads Bad Lands Good but
                                    Row[l]ing Camped for night 3 miles west of Fontinell
                        May 12 Camped for night 18 miles west of Fontinell in Company with 15 wagons Roads
                                    bad, No timber the land rowling and fertile
                        May 13 Camped for night 2 miles west of Lewis4 at Indian Creek
                                    Crossed East Botting at Lewis Stoped at Lewis one day Men on there return from the
                                    Peak [report] that no gold The wether is very Cold have to wair over coat Raining
                                    But plenty of music and Liquor and tobacco
                        May 15 Camped on the land of West Botting Rained all day [and] night and Cold Land
                                    good plenty of timber on the Creek Roads bad fifty wagons Camped in the Grove with
                                    us which looks well and Corn is up
                        May 16 Left Dismore with Parks and Parker and got in a Buggy with the Land lord from 
                                        Madison
                                     & Came on the Counsil Bluffs Cost me one dollar, stayed all
                                    night at City Hotell [for] fifty cents
                        May 17 Tried to sell some Medison no luck feet very sore Great many on there return
                                    from the Peak went Back to the Tavern [and] stayed all night [for] fifty Cents
                        May 18 Part of the Company came to the City. very unwelll [and] went to Dr E. How. he
                                    says he can cure the white swelling with a plaster. I got three paid three Dollars
                                    for the Medison put one onun plaster [put one on, a plaster] I went to the Tavern
                                    again [and] paid 25 [cents]
                        May 19 Dismore Came to the Bluffs left the wagons out of town with Baker Dismore
                                    started Home [and] I got in Company with 
                                        Hamilton
                                     & Kliplinger He that is Kiplinger does agree to take me to 
                                        California
                                     for seventy dollars I paid thirty in gold and am to pay forty when I
                                    get to 
                                        California
                                     my feet so sore I cannot walk put on some of that plaster got a p[pair]
                                    of Mocisons paid fifty cents
                        May 20 Stayed about the wagon all day [because] feet so sore Camped south of The City
                                    after part of the day crossed the Mosourie on a steem ferry boat with fifteen wagons
                                    on got a view of 
                                        Omahaw City
                                     and state House Camped for night west of Omahaw one mile.
                        May 21 Left Omahaw in the after part of the day and Come to the Tecker Creek Camped
                                    for night and had some rain roads good Land fertile and rowling with no timber as
                                    many coming back as going.
                        May 22 Camped for night on bank of the Elk Horn River one mile west of the town of
                                    Elk Horn Indians plenty stand guard for the first time fore men out of the crowed
                        May 23 Crossed Eagle Creek and came to the flat Plat River The Plat River is very
                                    wide Muddy and full of drift wood. all the timber there is a 
                              
                                 4 Lewis is a town in the western part of Cass Co., the
                                            second county west of 
                                                Madison
                                             Co.
                           
                                     little Cotton wood and Ceder we have high winds
                                    thunder and litening but no Rain the Bottom Land is vary level we Came threw
                                    Freemont a bout noon5
                        
                        May 24-26 [Entries missing]
                        May 26 Very heavy Rain last night all got wet. Very Cold had to wear over Coats and
                                    gluvs. Roads have a great deal of water in them but not very bad 14 miles today.
                                    Houses all along the road. No tim[b]er. Land sandy but very productive. We have
                                    Campe on a small Creek by name of 
                                        Columbus
                                     The Creek affords a little Cotton wood. Thirty wagons in sight. Two
                                    sick in Camp Headache and Cold. Very Cold this Eavening We have fine music at night
                                    and some fun, but no quarling nor fighting in Camp as yet. Water is Plenty Feed good
                                    for Cattle. Land level still in the Platte Valy or Bottom
                        May 27 We crosed the Platte River at Genoa Ferry 2 miles from 
                              Genoa City. Genoa
                                        City
                            affords one store a Black smith shop and about one
                                    hundred Families. There are about F'ifty teams here to cross at the Ferry
                                    at one dollar a wagon. The land here is very sandy. Genoa is one of the old mormon
                                    town[s] it being on the mormon trail. The City is principly Built of sod. We have
                                    Camped on the Bank of North Platte The Platte here is very wide and muddy and full
                                    of quick sand. The up Land is very rowling and sandy Hamelton Sick. Balance in good
                                    spirits Fine day, 18 mile to day.
                        May 28 Got an erly start had a fine day saw some antelope and one Wolf. Camped in the
                                    open plains without wood or water Moved some half dozen times Land level and sandy
                                    but no settlers nor Indians had plenty of feed for Cattle I have written one letter
                                    to Lady Jane one to George W. Hickman and one to Tyler Kidwell Had plenty of good
                                    Vocal music at night. All are well and in good Spirits
                        May 29 God in his tender mercy has granted us an other Lords day while the sun pours
                                    down its effulgent rayes opon each and every one of us are lovely and gay while the
                                    Cool refreshing breezees so softly Cheers us on our journey Our number is fifty nine
                                    men three woman and two Children. Seventeen wagons Camped five miles of Perrairia [
                                        Prairie
                                    ] Creek no timber water not so good all are well Land sandy and
                                    row[l]ing six miles of slough Saw one Company from Desmoines. Cattle got lost but
                                    found
                        May 30 Camped on Perairia Creek again. and some little timber. Cotton wood and Elemn
                                    Land not sandy but very level. Caught three woolfs. Had a fine day very warm but no
                                    sickness. in site of Platte River Timber Had no trouble but all in good spirits
                        May 31 Camped East of Ft Carny [Ft. Kearney] seven miles on Wood Creek. The Land is
                                    beautiful and Level. The mormons have commenced a settlement Timber is white ash,
                                    Elemn, and Cotton[wood]. We are one the old Ft. Laramy road all are well in Camp.
                                    woolves are plenty 
                              
                                 5
                                            
                                                Elkhorn City
                                             and Freemont in the eastern part of what was then 
                                                Nebraska
                                             Territory.
                           
                            one man has kiled four 
                                        Buffalow
                                    . The land is fertile but not so Sandy and very productive. We are about
                                    five miles from the Platte River. We have overtaken fifteen or twenty teams for
                                    Calafornia.
                        June 1 Camped West of Ft Carny on the north side of the Platte River The bottom land
                                    here is very beautiful. The little Creek Caled Elemn Creek makes a very pretty turn.
                                    I herd that my friends from Walnut had found there Cattle. Lew is Sick with the
                                    Colery Morbus. and I have the Headache and Tooth ache very bad. The rest are all
                                    well. All the timber her is Elemn and but little of that water not good
                        June 2 Camped On Elemn Creek just where we were Yesterday We stay[ed] here all day.
                                    Waited for Button to get back from the Post Ofice. Farber kiled an antelope and it
                                    eats well. 
                                        Buffalow
                                     is on every hill and in eve[r]y valley. This is a fine day some of the
                                    Bois [boys] are hunting. Men Camped all along the Creek. Land very fertile
                        June 3 Camped On 
                                        Buffalow
                                     Creek 17 miles east of Elemn Creek. All are well. There has ben some
                                    forty wagons in Company to day. The Land is rowling beatiful and fertile but very
                                    Sand. Water not good But little timber Ash Cotton wood.
                        June 4 Camped On Platte River; But little wood or water and what wood there is, is
                                    between the chanenls. No water but [in] River. all are well but me. My eye is sore.
                                    Fin day. John Ziglar kiled a 
                                        Buffalow
                                     Mr Pierce went a hunting and got the Fore quarters of a Buffalo. The
                                    land here is very fertile One man thinks he saw three thousand Buffalo.
                        June 5 Camped Again we are permitted to enjoy an other Lords day. and remained on the
                                    Platte and enjoy the fruits of the 4th day. While the ladies are doing the washing.
                                    A gentleman from Salt Lake with a train of mules going East after Meshenery
                                    [machinery] stoped and took dinner with us to day. All are well
                        June 6 Camped On the Platte River. Timber between the Channels, no water. Part of the
                                    road to day was hilly and nothing but barren sand banks. The day was very warm. Had
                                    thunder and liting at night but no rain. Had the Diarrhea all nite. Right eye very
                                    sore. Some four or five of the Oxen's feet is sore. All well in Camp but
                                    me. Musketoes bad.
                        June 7 Camped On the Platte River. No wood or water But plenty of Buffalo Chips to
                                    bern. Got some good water on the road at a large Biling [boiling] Spring by the side
                                    of the road. Saw no Buffalo since satterday. We Can see a great many on Both sides
                                    of the River going to Calafornia all well but me I have got the sore eyes. Dr had
                                    the tooth ache
                        June 8 Camped Three miles west of the North fork of the Platte. On the Platte River.
                                    About two hundred yards this side of North Platte We saw a fresh grave, and the name
                                    was W. W. Payne, Died May the 17th 1869. The roads Before we got to the Platte fork
                                    was bad, the day  was plesant Feed for Cattle
                                    was good Land very Sand all well but me. No timber No Buffalo or game of any kind
                                    Water not good
                        June 9 Camped On the Platte. No timber but plenty of good water; two large Boiling
                                    Springs. The Road to day has bin nothing but barren Sands banks or Bluffs Cattle had
                                    hard work to travil and some of them gave out Crosed one or two small streams. No
                                    Indians as yet And no game. One hundred and Sixty five miles to Ft. Larame6 all well but me. Found an Indian Skull. Sixty men in Company.
                                    Flyes are getting bad
                        June 10 Camped Crooked Creek near the Platte next Camp Creek These are two Creeks
                                    only a fiew rods apart water and grass good Woolf Creek, Wach Creek, Lone Tree, all
                                    well in Camp but Sam Martin he has the sore eyes Saw a fine stove on the road that
                                    was left oposite the Ceder Grove. Camping not good, Roads bad. Left one Ox on the
                                    road feet to sore to travil. Had music and dansing 21 miles
                        June 11 Camped On Castle Creek Quicksand bottom Good camping Trading post on the
                                    south side of the Platte opposite our Camp. Indians plenty on the south side of the
                                    River. Post Ofice at trading Post. all wel in Camp. A large drove of Cattle on the
                                    other side of the River going to Calafornia No timber. Plenty of sand stone. High
                                    sand Hill to cross This is Satter Day 
                                        Nebraska
                                     [June] 11, 1859.
                        June 12 Camped On the River Again No water but river water; no wo[o]d, but plenty of
                                    grass for Cattle Crosed or pased Sand Hill Creek Crab Creek and Crab Lake No game
                                    but Praria Dogs. Roads good and no sand hills The day was plesant had a little rain
                                    at nigt. All well. The Land here is very fertile and not so Sandy We have celebrated
                                    this the Lords day by traveling. Distance 25
                        13 Camped on the River three miles from Bluff Runns. No wood or Water but Rivers
                                    water crossed no streems. The road at the Ruins was hilly and sandy the Land here is
                                    full of alkali feed not good all well in Camp The day was very warm but got some
                                    good water at the Ruins. Passed two Graves
                        June 14 Camped an[d] laid over to let the Cattle rest The Ladies done up the washing.
                                    I done some mends Examined some 12 or 13 heads. Had Some little Rain The day was
                                    warm feed not good no wood All well in Camp
                        June 15 Camped Opposite Chimney Rock No wood or water Musketoes and Buffalo nats very
                                    bad Got to ride with Mr Fowler and Wells, and Mr Nelson and had the pleasure of
                                    examining four Ladies heads and some 10 or 15 mens heads The day was very plesant
                                    All weel in Camp
                        June 16 Camped On the River opposite Scots Bluff No wo[o]d or water Grass is not good
                                    The day was very plesant Got in Company with Mr. Jounson and Mr. KirkPatric of Gale
                                    Burge [
                                        Galesburg
                                    ], Examined
                              
                                 6 Ft. Laramie, about 300 miles west of Ft. Kearney, on
                                            the North Platte. In 
                                                Nebraska
                                             Territory at that time, but now in eastern Wyoming.
                           
                                     three or four heads Mr. KirkPatrick is Going to
                                    Origon [to] 
                                        Portland
                                     All well in Camp Some [?]
                        June 17 Camped On the River opposite Cottonwood Bushes, and, opposite A tradeing post
                                    no wood or water all well in Camp. Pased Spring Creek. The day is very warm. Gras is
                                    not good Land is not very fertile: too sandy my eyes are very sore, got a pair of
                                    gogles
                        June 18 Camped at Cottonwood Grove 15 miles East of Fort Laramie, all well in Camp
                                    Stayed there one day the 19 [of June] Wrote a letter To Mr Kidwell and went in a
                                    Swiming with Mr Hamelton. The Grove is a very beautiful one
                        June 20 Camped Opposite Fort Laramie Passed two trading Posts with the Indians
                                    crossed one or two streems of water All well in camp High winds and a little rain
                                    Grass was good Cottonwood Timber of a very small growth. There are some fifty or a
                                    hundred wagons in the grove. Water is good No very good news from the Peak.
                        June 21 Stayed at Ft Laramie The Band Boy's Went to the Ft and got Drunk and
                                    Played all day and all night About one hundred Solgers [soldiers] at the Barix
                                    [barracks]. Moris got whiped at the Ft The day was very warm. Had to pay thirty
                                    cents for crosing the River George Perce and Wade Parted because Wade agreed to take
                                    Clap [?] and Post [mail] ceper [cheaper] than he did But little timber
                        June 22 Camped Crossed the Black Hill 26 miles Pased the cold water springs about
                                    noon and came to the River The day was very warm We camped with an Indian Trader who
                                    had marryed and [an] Indian Grass not good No timber or wood of any kind Gold Mines
                                    One Grave on the road
                        June 23 Camped on Pond Creek with some thirty Mormons that was going back to the
                                    States saying they had a nuff of Mormanism Grass is good but Pore water No timber
                                    One grave
                        June 24 Camped on the river Crossed Bitter Spring Creek. No wood or water Grass good
                                    All well in camp Killed a Hare No game but Hares Came over some very mountaneous
                                    Country Plenty of stone Coal
                        June 25 Camped on the Platte No wood or water Crossed one little Creek and a great
                                    many very high hills G[r]ass is good Some stone-coal and large beds of Icen-glass
                                    [isinglass] Large herds of Cattle on the opposite side of the Platte River
                        June 26 The Lords Day has come again and we rest as we remain on the Platte [where we
                                    were on] the 25th I have had to Barber five mens heads to day the wohan [women] are
                                    going up there washing All well but sore eyes Major Russells twenty six wagons are
                                    on the opposite of the River
                        June 27 Camped on the Platte Past one Cold Water spring Crossed a part of the sand
                                    hills Grass not good no water but Platte water All well in camp Plenty of fire wood
                                    but little timber and that is Cotton  wood. Some
                                    of the sand hills are very high Dr Bata's Grave from 
                                        Illinois
                                     who died in Fifty four.
                        June 28 Camped by the Platte Plenty of wood and Grass. The roads is very sandy and
                                    roling Passed the lower ferry on the Platte. Passed an alcali spring and crossed one
                                    Cold water ravine. Saw the best quality of stone-Coal. The American fur Company are
                                    statuned at the Lower ferry All well in Camp Mr T. N. Snow
                        June 29 Camped on the Platte Passed the Bridge and there is a large trading post at
                                    the Bridge The roads are very rowling and sandy A great many ded Cattle on the road
                                    Leave one wagon on the road All well no timber Grass not good
                        June 30 Camped on the Platte at a stage station one mile from a store, The road was
                                    very sandy and hilly There is plenty of wood and water, and grass for the Cattle.
                                    All well Snow ten ft deep on the hills Met some Mornons going to the states Ded
                                    cattle all a long the road
                        July 1 Had to stay at the Platte for we could not get our Cattle across the River
                                    until noon we then came to the willow springs and took supper The yellow springs are
                                    very numerous and the water is very cold and good to drink we then left the willow
                                    springs and traveled as far that night as crooked creek all well in Camp had no bad
                                    luck the Day was very warm. The road was hard and level and but fiew hills
                        July 2 Camped on Crooked Creek The water was good [but] little grass for the Cattle.
                                    got here at three in the morning stayed until noon and then came to sweetwater
                                        River7 Camped On the Sweet water at Independence rock There
                                    is a trading Post at the rock. All well in camp. plenty of Grass for Cattle. No
                                    timber A Bridge at the rock the day was very warm and dusty Saw a great many Cattle
                                    on the road were ded by drinking Acali [Alkali]
                        July 3 Camped on sweetwater A half a mile this side of Devils gate at a stage
                                        station8 The day was very warm and the roads dusty Grass was
                                    very good All well in camp no timber but plenty of chips at the station
                        July 4 Stayed at the station where we camped on the third to selebrate the fourth
                                    Some two hundred persons were there Had two spekers Mr Button of Wisconson and Mr
                                    Jourdan of Ilinois Two toasts drinkers Had the Bras Band to Play and a man to read
                                    the Decliration of Indipendence
                        July 5 Camped on the Sweet-water at Charleys wigwam the Highway man Had planty of
                                    Grass no tmber Passed one trading Post All wel in camp no Indians or game
                        July 6 Camped on the sweetwater near a large high rock. Plenty of 
                              
                                 7 It was here that pen and ink gave way to pencil, as
                                            the diarist continued his entry of July 2.
                              
                                 8 The Sweetwater River is a tributary of the North
                                            Platte. Devils Gap is a canyon cut through a granite ridge by the
                                            Sweetwater.
                           
                                     grass no timber A man got shot accidental in
                                    the side but not killed The day was warm and dusty Passed the cold water spring and
                                    one trading Post
                        July 7 Camped on sweetwater All well but W Cook Plenty of grass [but] no wood Had a
                                    shower of rain at night [part tom out]
                        July 8 Camped on willow Creek No timber Plenty of grass All well A great many ded
                                    Cattle on the road [part torn out]
                        July 9 Camped at Pacific Springs9 stayed over
                        July 10 Sabath had a dance a$ night and a general fine time no wood All
                                    well A black smith shop at the springs Roads good Ded Cattle on the road
                        July 11 Camped on the Banks of little sandy Grass not good no timber roads good Met
                                    Uncl's Sam train of Forty wagons and Eighty Dragoons Had a shower of rain
                                    All well in Co
                        July 12 Camped on the Banks of Big Sandy Passed the Second campany of the Dragoons
                                    Eighty in No Passed two trading Posts and Post Ofice No grass or wood Men and woman
                                    returning from Salt Lake Roads good All well in Camp One more wagon in Company two
                                    men and two girls10
                        
                        July 13 Camped three miles west of the Ferry on green river Grass was good A little
                                    cotton wood All well in Camp there is a trdaing post at the fery
                        July 14 Camped on Spring Creek no wood or feed, and water not good The roads not good
                                    All well in Camp
                        July 15 Camped at the foot of the Hill where there are four Springs and plenty of
                                    grass and brush to bum All well but John Sraslader11 he has a
                                    bile on his chin
                        July 16 Camped on Hams fork of Green River water good and brush to burn Grass is good
                                    and plenty One hundred and fifty Snake Indians All well in Camp no grass Saterday
                        July 17 Camped over Sabbath An other Lords Day At Hams Fork All well in Camp Plenty
                                    of grass no timber Plenty of good water Land 
                              
                                 9 After crossing the North Platte on July 1, the
                                            caravan ascended the Sweetwater toward the South Pass of the Rocky
                                            Mountains, which must have been crossed on July 8. On July 9, the camping
                                            site was at Pacific Springs. On July 11 on the Little Sandy River. This and
                                            the Big Sandy are tributaries of the Green River which flows into the 
                                                Colorado
                                            . South Pass is not mentioned by the diarist. Though nearly 7600
                                            feet above sea level, it is not high above the adjacent plateaus and the
                                            ascent and the descent are easy. Two travelers who went over the gap in
                                            1848, for which they used the name Grand Pass wrote:
                                            "Both the ascent and the descent were so gradual, that, had we not
                                            been told, we should have passed over the dividing ridge in the Rocky
                                            Mountains, without knowing it." See Route Across the
                                                Rocky Mountains by Overton Johnson and Wm. H. Winter, remint of
                                            1932. p. 22.
                              
                                 10 The name, Charles H. Comerse,
                                            follows this entry of July 12. He was probably a friend of Snow, whose name
                                            he wished to preserve.
                              
                                 11 It is possible that the diarist meant to write Straslader. In the last entry, that of August 15, he
                                            included the information "John Strasser is on a spree." It
                                            is entirely possible that the same person is meant in the earlier
                                        entry.
                           
                                     in the first bottom is fertile Beautiful
                                    flowers are in Bloom
                        July 18 Camped on the Bottom of Bare [Bear] River12 four miles
                                    from the river Plenty of spring water No timber Passed two or three Fen tree groves
                                    High mountains to cross in Origan [
                                        Oregon
                                    ]13 (part torn out)
                        July 19 Camped on th Bank of Bare river. Plenty of grass No timber High Mountains on
                                    both side of the river. Snake Indians are Plenty Mr Fasker is sick.
                        July 20 Camped On Bair River P[l]enty of grass and Spring water Indians P[l]enty
                                    Musquetos very bad No game All well in Camp Crossed two or three streems A shower of
                                    rain at night N (part torn out)
                        July 21 Camped On Bair River P[l]enty of grass and water Had six miles of Mountains
                                    to cross and one or two stream All weell Musquetoes bad Plenty of wood (part torn
                                    out)
                        July 22 Camped On Bair River Grass good water plenty. No timber Musketo's
                                    bad Indians Plenty Land fertile All well in Camp Grizly Bair Cold Springs No Buffalo
                                    (part torn out)
                        July 23 Camped at a cold water Spring on a little raviene in the Bair River Mountains
                                    one mile from the river Grass is good No timber but pine on the top of the Mountains
                                    All well in Camp Roads good Land is good in the bottoms
                        July 24 Camped At the Soda Springs.14 These Springs are caused by
                                    a volcanic eruption. The shock opening the Stratta of rock leaveing an orfice for
                                    the water to run out These Springes are very numerous throwing out a yellow Substanc
                                    or matter that terns to rock by which it has made an elevation of some fifty feet
                                    The water tastes like Soda or a very tartish affect
                        July 25 Saterday Staying at the soda Springs to recruit up the Cattle grass being
                                    plenty. Good water. Plenty of sedar pine and cottonwood. Had a dance at night at Mr.
                                    Fairbanks Train They had the Band to play for them Good Music and good danceing Mr
                                    Day is sick Sam Martin first leson in Music
                        July 26 Camped On Spring Creek Crossed over some very high mountain and some very
                                    butifull fertile land The Marsh Creek bottom is level and fertile where we ate
                                    dinner Got in a frakes with beaver took out my Beuey [Bowie] rife and you would of
                                    laughed to se him runn. Went to see a vo[lcano] two miles off of the road and seven
                                    miles from the soda springs. The volcano some one hundred and fifty feet The crater
                                    being a bout one hundred ft high [and] debth one [hundred] fifty 
                              
                                 12 Bear River flows into Great Salt Lake. The trail
                                            crosses the divide between the Green [Ham's Fork] and Bear rivers
                                            about 25 miles northwest of Fort Bridger.
                              
                                 13 When the diarist stated that he was "in
                                            Origan". he meant that he was north of 42$$
                                            in what had long been known as 
                                                Oregon
                                            .
                              
                                 14 This place is in what is now southesatern 
                                                Idaho
                                             about fifty miles southeast of Fort Hall.
                           
                                     ft while the melted lava is scattered in all
                                    directions. and large moun-tains bursted and la in all directions in massive stone.
                        27 Camped at Ball Creek Good grass willow but no timber day warm and roads dusty.
                                    Cold nights. All well in Camp A man by the name of Humble aged forty years, got Shot
                                    by a boy, for shooting at the boy The boy being too fond of the old man['s]
                                    nice little Girl aged 13 years
                        July 28 Camped at little Muddy. Good feed No timber. Came threw tenn miles of canon
                                    to the top of a very rugged hill. After getting to the bottom of one of the most
                                    dangerous hills on the road to Calafornia five mules ran a past our train and
                                    Stampeeded our Cattle and hurt one man a little but not dangerously. No Cattle hurt
                                    or wagon broke Day very warm. No water for twenty-five miles. But before we got in
                                    Camp we herd that one train was murdered by the Indians & when we got to the
                                    Campe every [man] had his gun reddy to shoot. They then gave a history of the so
                                    troubled affair. relating that one of these men Mr W Hall was shot ded and one more
                                    Shot threw the shoulder while they pointed to the grave of the unfortionate man We
                                    then Saw the Seven returning men that escaped, the number saved out of twenty they
                                    reported that five were mortally wounded and one woman to di[e] and four Children
                                    and one woman to meet these dredful fate when we had got our guns reddy and talking
                                    about the dredful affair. For war was declared when Mr Button Hollowed to the
                                    Company that Some one was Calling for help. We got our guns and ran to help when we
                                    looked farther up the hill and saw one of the gard raiseing a lady in his arms that
                                    had escaped. She was give out and was in state of insanity. She stated when She came
                                    to her reson She stated she had held her husband in her arms until he was ded she
                                    then fled for life and Came Eght miles part of the way on her nees leaving the
                                    wounded in there diing groans This brought sorrow to our ears and caused our blud to
                                    boil with revenge But the sun went down below the hurison and night had drawn her
                                    mantled roabe of darknes over us and we to protect our Selves we drove our Cattle
                                    all to gether put out eighteen Gards for the night But the night pased away without
                                    one being hurt
                        July 29, 1859 Camped in the Canon at A Spring branch. No timber grass not good. left
                                    little mudy with fifty Seven wagons, one hundred and Sixty me and all well armed. We
                                    came on to See what had become of the wo[u]nded men and woman. We came four miles to
                                    the foot of the mountain and there we put ten men on both side of the top of Canon
                                    and ten in front of the teams; and two men to every wagon and some fifteen of a rear
                                    guard and onward we marchew threw the massive canon we found the lost child some
                                    half mile this side of the masacree a live and well. the Child belonged to the Lady
                                    who made her escape, but we went on withe blud boiled vengence and Soon came to
                                    witness some of the most horrouble seenes that men ever witness. Four men lay ded on
                                    the ground and one man w[o]unded and one woman badly wo[u]nded and her childs leg
                                    broken but think they will get well. The four wagons partly torn to prileces and
                                    trunks broken open fether beds tor open and 
                                    fethers scattered all over the ground and the pore woman and men lay growning in a
                                    gore of blud. but we did not know but what danger was aproaching and we gathered up
                                    the fragments and three wagons and the ded and wo[u]nded and come on to where we
                                    camped in making a calculation they had taken thirty Six mules and horses and six
                                    hundred dollars, but the blud thirsty dins were gone. We berryed the ded all
                                    together and come on to Raft River this is a small streem or creek the bottom land
                                    is fertile and wide. No timber plenty of grass The wo[u]nded is better but the day
                                    is vary warm and roads dusty
                        July 30 Camped on Raft River for the day: so as to let the sick get better. The day
                                    is very hot. Had two foot races run and some betting and a little excitement but no
                                    fighting. The young man Mr Joseph Scelic that shot Mr Humble was hung on the 29 of
                                    July. The boy only 17 years of age has died that ignoable deth but men have not got
                                    wise enough to quit taking life for life
                        July 31 Camped on West Raft River Good place to camp plently of grass no timber but
                                    willow to burn All well in camp but the wo[u]ndid they are not so well Land here not
                                    so good very sandy. The mountains on both sides are very high and snow on the tops
                                    of them Herd from Mr Davis Passed the fort hall road about noon three or four miles
                                        back15
                        
                        August 1 Camped five miles from the Salt Lake road on a small rocky stream.16 Good camping plenty of good grass and water. No timber. All
                                    well but the wonded and they are very unwell and the supposition is they will hardly
                                    live. Had a shower of rain. The day is very warm and no little dust Land fertile but
                                    roling and rocky.
                        August 2 Camped on goos creek and valey this valey is about a mile and a half wide
                                    with plenty of good grass and water but no timber all there is is willow to burn
                                    Mountains not s[o] high Land fertile in the valey Part of the mountains covered with
                                    the small groath of Pine. and sedar All well in Camp Herd from the stolen Cattle
                                    [and] mules
                        August 3 Camped on Goos creek at the head not far from the mouth of a three mile
                                    canon The valey here is a bout the same All well in camp but the wonded They are no
                                    better The day was plesant but the roads very dusty Snake Indians Some seventy or
                                    eighty wagons camped with us to night
                        August 4 Camped on a small stream five miles from where we struck the thousand
                                    springs valey This valey is fertile and affords plenty of grass but no timber we
                                    came thirty five miles and part of the way the road was very rocky. we came threw
                                    five miles of canon and was s[h]ot at by eight Indians but no person was killed but
                                    four hed of cattle shot 
                              
                                 15 The caravan was now between the Snake River and the 
                                                Utah
                                             line something over 100 miles west of Soda Springs. When the
                                            diarist mentions the Fort Hall road, he does not mean the 
                                                Oregon
                                             Trail between Soda Springs and Fort Hall, which had been left
                                            behind on July 26, but a road from the 
                                                California
                                             Trail down the Raft River Valley northward to the 
                                                Oregon
                                             Trail, joining the latter about 80 miles west of Fort Hall,
                                            near the mouth of the Raft River.
                              
                                 16 A trail to Great Salt Lake led from the Raft River
                                            southeastward to Salt Lake, while the 
                                                California
                                             Trail led southwestward toward the source of the Humboldt
                                            River.
                           
                                     All well in camp but me. I have the
                                    (Ticdolereany) The wo[u]nded are no better
                        August 5 Camped again [in] the valey of a thousand springs Good grass and plenty of
                                    good water. no timber road dusty but day plesant Mr James D. Wright died this
                                    morning at eight o clock he suffered no little by his woonds Mrs Wright is better
                                    All well in camp The valey is from one to two miles wide.
                        August 6 Camped on the hed of the Humbolt at the large cold springs. Passed the hot
                                    springs about 10 oc[lock] The hot springs are in the thousand springs valey The day
                                    was very warm and dusty Some forty Indians camped two miles from our Camp Came to a
                                    small stream and traveled up that a bout 2 miles and came to a large spring of cold
                                    water All well in camp Met a company of the infantry and a company of the dragoons
                                    returning to camp floid [Floyd]. They shot a deserter and [an] Indan
                        August 7 Camped a Sunday on one of the forks of the Humbolt About 3 miles brought us
                                    to worst canon [on] the rout quite a large stream flows through it which has to be
                                    forded Several times. It is very rocky and rough. One or two Cold Springs in the
                                    canon. Indians were seen in the eavening Had ice last night a half an inc[h] thick.
                                    Road good but dusty and plenty of Alkali No timber. Plenty of good feed for Cattle
                                    In sight of the snow caped mountains
                        Aug 8 Camped Monday On the Humbolt We have now entered a beautiful valley covered
                                    with the best of wild tall grain Had a stampede to day ca[u]sed by woods little
                                    white dog. C Webber got ran over, but not badly hurt. Plenty of good grass and water
                                    No timber All well in Camp Nights so cold that it is impsiable to ceep warm Mrs
                                    Night is getting better
                        Aug 9 Camped On the Humbolt not over a half a mile from the north fork of the Humbolt
                                    The day was plesant but roads dusty Hamelton sick Alkali very bad ded cattle on the
                                    road plenty of good feed but no timber Plenty of willow to burn roads very level and
                                    dusty
                        Aug 10 Camped Again on th Humbolt with plenty of good grass for Cattle No timber All
                                    well in Camp but Hamelton he is better one or to hills to cross roads dusty valey
                                    sone two miles wide No timbeer The nights are geting warmer No game but hare
                        Aug 11 Camped on the Flat. This morning we came four or five miles to the forks of
                                    the road the right hand road run over the hill. but we came the left hand road threw
                                    a very long rough hilley canon and it being to cross two or three times. No timber
                                    but plenty of good grass. The day was very warm and dusty. No sickness The valey
                                    here is not very wide the river winding threw very high rough hills
                        Aug 12 Camped On the Humbolt one mile fro[m] gravelly ford Here the Male [mail] road
                                    cames in from Salt Lake it is five miles from here to the first male station The
                                    valey here is beautifully covered with  yellow
                                    flowers. There is plenty of good grass for the Cattle. All well in camp. Passed
                                    threw a long rough rocky road crossing a small stream a number of times and come
                                    very near upsetting Companys should prepare well before going threw on account of
                                    the jolting
                        Aug 13 Camped On the Humbolt after coning some twenty eight milee to the second post
                                    ofice No water but slough [?] and no timber but plenty of grass Plenty of Sho Shonee
                                    Indians but they are mixed with french and Diggers Indian they are very dirty and
                                    nasty having no clothing Grass is good but [no] timber the valey here is fertile and
                                    levell. No game. All well in camp Musketoe[s] bad
                        Aug 14 Camped on the Humbolt after coming some twenty miles over a very levell road
                                    traveling all the tine in the valey. the valey is very wide with high mountains on
                                    both sides of the river. Before coming or getting to camp in crossing a sloug[h] we
                                    mired two teams but got them out safe Good grass and plenty of willow to burn All
                                    well in Camp Musketoes are bad
                        Aug 15 Camped At the third station without wood, but there is a good spring of cold
                                    water at the station The valey is wide here but very sandy and is covered with 
                                        Greece
                                     wood and sage. There is a little grass a bout three miles from the post
                                    along the river There [i]s some three or four road[s] that can be traveled. There is
                                    plenty of Alkali here It is 35[350] miles from here to Placerville17 All well in camp and John Strasser is on a spree
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
            ORIGIN OF THE TERM Hoosier
            
            [The following item relative to the origin of the term Hoosier clipped from the 
                        Pittsburgh
                    
                    Statesman by the 
                        Logansport
                    
                    Canal Telegraph of May 17,1834, was discovered and sent to the Indiana Magazine of History by Esther U. McNitt of Indiana State Library. It is one of the
                    earliest, though not the earliest, of the several explanations that have been offered in regard to
                    the origin of the appelation Hoosier, so universally used to designate a citizen
                    of Indiana. This statement by the 
                        Pittsburgh
                    
                    Statesman was not noticed by the late Jacob P. Dunn in his very full treatment of
                    the question which appeared in his work, Indiana and Indianians, 1121-1155. See
                    also Dunn, "Origin of the Word Hoosier", in Indiana Magazine of
                        History, I, 86-96, and "The Word Hoosier," in ibid.,
                    VII, 61-63. Other matter pertaining to this question may be found in ibid., IX,
                    27-28; XVII, 305-6; XXV, 101-103 Indiana Historical Society, Publications, IV, No.
                    2.1
            
               
                  17 Placerville is about 40 miles east of 
                            Sacramento
                        . The diarist wrote 35 miles, but he probably meant to set down
                            350 miles.
               
            
            
            [THE ITEM]
            
                    "Hoosier"—The Hoosier State.—The good citizens of our
                        sister state (Indiana), have been called Hoosiers for some time past at home and abroad,
                        sometimes honorably and sometimes the reverse—as the term has become general; it is
                        high time that its origin and definition should be generally known; before that section of the
                        public lands was regularly surveyed—many families located and were called
                        squatters—the surveyor on finding one of these would ask who's here, and
                        place the name on their map—the question became so familiar, that on the first view
                        of the smoke of a cabin, the exclamation of another "who's here"
                        became equally so, until its eventuated in the general term of Hoosiers.
                
         
         
         
            Book Notices
            Claude G. Bowers, whose volumes in the field of American history, Party Battles of the
                        Jackson Period, Jefferson and 
                            Hamilton
                        , The Tragic Era, have been so widely read, has brought out a new work which is
                    being received with high favor, and which is selling at a high price even in the midst of an
                    unprecedented depression. The new book carries the title, Beveridge and the Progressive
                        Era. It will appeal strongly to Indiana readers.
            This piece of writing by Mr. Bowers is in the nature of a new venture on his part. In his earlier
                    volumes, he was presenting men and events as the champion of Republicans over against Federalists,
                    Democrats against Whigs, and Democrats against the Radical Republicans of the period of political
                    reconstruction or "age of hate." In the Beveridge treatise, he has been led to
                    study a recent era with a view to giving due credit to a leader who was not a Democrat though he was
                    by no means a regular Republican. The effort has been good for the author, and, in respect to
                    partisan bias, he has shown substantial improvement. With his acquired experience as an invesigator,
                    his facility as a writer, and his productive zeal, readers of American history can only desire that
                    he will continue to write. One hope is yet indulged by students who are primarily interested in
                    getting at the truth—that Mr. Bowers will become as anxious to write history in a spirit
                    of detachment as did his sincere friend, Albert J. Beveridge, when preparing his volumes on Lincoln.
                    The new book by Mr. Bowers is a publication of the Houghton Mifflin Company which retails at
                    $5.00.
            An unusually attractive little volume has come to the Indiana Magazine of History
                    from the 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society. Miss Bertha L. Heilbron, assistant editor of the publications of
                    that Society, has edited with introduction and notes the "Diary and Sketches" of
                    Frank Blackwell Mayer under the title, With Pen and Pencil on the Frontier in
                    1851. The diarist was a young artist of 
                        Baltimore
                     who began his diary when he started on his journey to far-off 
                        Minnesota
                     Territory. He traveled by train to Cumberland, 
                        Maryland
                    , where he took the stage for 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . From that place, he went down the 
                        Ohio
                    
                     River by steamboat, stopping at 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Louisville
                    . From the latter city, he proceeded by stage to 
                        Nashville
                    , and thence to 
                        St. Louis
                     by the Cumberland, 
                        Ohio
                    , and 
                        Mississippi
                    . After a side trip up the River to Hannibal and 
                        Alexandria
                    , the diarist took a steamboat from 
                        St. Louis
                     for 
                        St. Paul
                    . That part of the journal which covers his experiences from May 7, 1851, until his
                    arrival at the capital of 
                        Minnesota
                     Territory on June 15, is very interesting and informing. This portion of the diary
                    occupies over sixty printed pages.
            The remainder of the diary which extends to July 18, occupies a little more than a hundred pages. In
                    these entries, the artist furnishes matter pertaining to the 
                        Minnesota
                     of that day. He journeyed to the Territory "to satisfy a visual
                    craving—to see at first hand the natives, their villages, their custumes, their utensils,
                    their dances, their feasts, their ceremonies—rather than to learn how the Great Father at 
                        Washington
                     dealt with his red children and bought their fertile prairies and their rich woodlands
                    at a few cents an acre." To this comment Miss Heilbron adds: "It is just possible
                    that the artist's overwhelming interest in the natives accounts for the fact that the
                    emphasis in his diary is on Indian life and that the treaties of 1857 are neglected."
            The printed diary is accompanied by illustrations which are reproductions of the sketches by the
                    pencil of Mayer. These add much to the value and interest of the book for the reader. This small
                    volume, on which such excellent work has been done by both editor and printer, may be obtained from
                    the 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society for $2.50. It is the first volume in a Narratives and Documents series, which it happily inaugurates. Future volumes will be
                    awaited with high expectations.
            
               Indiana History Bulletin, vol. IX, number 12, the issue of September, 1932, is a
                    "High School Number". It was edited by a committee representing the high school
                    teachers of social science of the state, of which committee Daniel W. Snepp of the Bosse High
                    School, 
                        Evansville
                    , was the chairman. The articles are devoted to the work of high school teachers in
                    presenting Indiana history and government including local history and local problems of government.
                    The following brief contributions from high school instructors appear in the Buletin:
            
            
            "Adventures among Yesterdays", by Julia LeClerc 
                        Knox
                    ; "The Need of a Good High School 
                        Text
                     in Indiana History", by Jeanette Landrum; "The Place of the Local
                    History Club in our High Schools", by Mrs. Sadie Bacon Hatcher; "The Museum as an
                    Aid in Teaching History", by L. Talbert Buck. There is a "Foreword" by
                    Mr. Snepp.
            In addition to the above mentioned articles there is "A New Declaration of the Objectives of
                    Teaching History", by C. Roy Williams of the Indiana University School of Education. The
                    State Superintendent of Public Instruction, George C. Cole, contributes a paper in which he sets
                    forth the place of "Indiana History and Government in the Social Studies Program",
                    as outlined in a Tentative Course of Study in Elementary Social Studies, recently
                    issued by the State Department. Under the caption, "The High School Teacher and the
                    Historical Society", Dr. Christopher B. Coleman presents unanswerable arguments showing why
                    high school instructors in the social studies field should all be members of the Indiana Historical
                    Society. For the good of those to whom the appeal is directed and likewise for the future welfare of
                    the Society, it is hoped that Dr. Coleman's sound advice will be weighed and acted upon by
                    a large number of high school teachers.
            
               A Pioneer Indiana Railroad, the Origin and Development of the Monon is a study in
                    Indiana history that recently appeared. The author is Prof. Frank F. Hargrave of Purdue University
                    who has done much research in the history of Indiana railroads. Such a monograph is very welcome,
                    and will certainly be read by many who are interested in railway history in addition to students who
                    are anxious to learn more about any phase of Indiana history that may be presented. A review of
                    Professor Hargrave's book, which he has published privately and copies of which may be
                    obtained by writing directly to him, will appear in the Indiana Magazine of
                    History for December.
         
         
         
            Comment
            Americans who experienced an appreciable period of mature life before the age of the automobile, the
                    movie and the airplane are fast growing old. Among men and women who reached maturity in the
                    eighties or nineties and who have never become fully accustomed to the things of the new era, there
                    is a feeling that there has been a good deal of loss. Admitedly, it is better to live. in a day of
                    individual communion sets, sanitary drinking fountains, comfortable clothing, outdoor activities,
                    electric washers, and cleaning and pressing establishments. No one wants to drink from the common
                    cup at the town pump again, or wear a frock coat at his daily work, or return to the wash-board and
                    soft soap, or buy crackers out of the barrel where the cat sleeps–all agree that it is
                    well that those days are gone forever. It is however, only natural that reflective individuals whose
                    days of manhood or womanhood have been about equally divided between the older and newer regime
                    should often feel sorry for a generation of men and women, now rapidly coming into control, who were
                    born into a world of speeding cars and movie performances that succeed each other in a never-ending
                    series, to which has been added the radio to furnish distraction for all leisure time not taken up
                    in whizzing over pavements or looking at the screen in the theater.
            In the year, 1932, we have seen the Congress of the 
                        United States
                    , at the behest of the President, increase taxes and cut wages for government employees
                    in order "to balance the budget". We have also seen the Indiana Legislature, and
                    those of many other states, decreasing taxes and cutting down the pay of all employees of the state
                    and local governments in order to relieve men of property of their public burdens. In both nation
                    and states, the process has been carried on without understanding or intelligent discrimination. The
                    general demand for economy in the conduct of public affairs has been met almost entirely through
                    forcing sacrifices upon employees of the national, state and local governments. The process has not
                    increased prosperity—rather the reverse is true, because the demand for goods has been
                    lessened. It is to be hoped that more  fundamental and just
                    methods of bringing about governmental economies will be discovered in future sessions of Congress
                    and state Legislatures.
            The people of the 
                        United States
                     will soon be confronted with the problems connected with caring for the destitute
                    during the fourth winter of the great depression. It has been proposed to employers that such work
                    as they have to offer shall be "spread" among as many workers as possible. The
                    proposal seems to many worthy citizens, especially to those who are weary of repeated calls to
                    contribute to community chests, to be a wise one. In the case of work created to relieve
                    unemployment, there can be no valid objection to the idea of "spreading work". In
                    all industries and institutions where varying degrees of activity have been kept up during the
                    depression, where employees may be said to have jobs of their own, there is a fundamental question
                    at issue. To take away a part of a man's job, usually his only source of income, and give
                    it to another, is to say the least a new and startling departure. Such a policy may be justifiable
                    in the present emergency, but if so, why is it not equally defensible to take a part of a
                    man's business and give it to another. If jobs, acquired through time and patience and
                    industry, can be divided and "spread around," why can not factories, stores,
                    banks, mines, and farms be dealt with in like manner, in order to avoid increasing taxes or
                    donations to community chests?
            Republicans won national victories in 1920, 1924, and 1928. Can this statement be challenged? If the
                    choice of the President by popular and electoral votes be considered, the statement is sound. It is
                    true, nevertheless, that neither of the three Presidents, Harding, Coolidge, or Hoover, has at any
                    time been supported by a working majority in both House and Senate at the same time. No party is
                    ever really in control of the General Government in the 
                        United States
                    , save when the President is able to carry out policies in harmony with majorities in
                    both House and Senate. The greatest defect connected with party government in the 
                        United States
                     lies just here. Parties and party leaders are only occassionally given the opportunity
                    to carry through constructive programs. Responsibility is hard to locate whether the President is a
                    Republican or a  Democrat, if either the House or the Senate is
                    controlled by an opposite party.
            Presidents, congressional leaders and people would function better, receive credit for constructive
                    policies and accept responsibility for mistakes much more certainly if a system were adopted making
                    harmony between the President and Congress a necessary basis for the existence of an Administration.
                    Under the Constitution as it stands, the only chance for an efficient and responsible Administration
                    is for the same party to elect the President and a majority in each branch of Congress. A simple
                    remedy for a really serious defect would seem to be: to elect Senators and Representatives all at
                    the same time and for terms of the same length; to have the President chosen by Senate and House,
                    acting jointly for that purpose as a national assembly; and to have any deadlock
                    between House and Senate settled likewise by joint action in said national
                    assembly. As it is, it is seldom true that a political party has a fair chance to govern even
                    when supposedly in power. For this reason all parties should combine to work out some such
                    fundamental change as that mentioned above, which has the merit of being an adaptation of the
                    established American system rather than a system borrowed from another country.
            Under the presidency of Andrew Wylie, who was styled "Professor of Mental and Moral
                    Philosophy and Belles Lettres", something in the nature of history was
                    attached to the curriculum of Indiana University as a side issue. Following a diagram showing the
                    subjects to be taken by freshmen, sophomores, juniors and seniors, the following note appears in the
                        Annual Circular and Catalogue of Indiana University for the year 1851:
                    "Two lectures on History are delivered every week to the Freshman and Sophomore classes,
                    which are also open to such other students as desire to attend them." Nothing in reference
                    to history appears in earlier catalogues of the University. Whether the lectures were intended as a
                    dessert or a medicine, it is hard to say. Possibly both purposes were in the minds of those who were
                    bold enough to experiment with "Lectures on History" before the students of a
                    struggling college on the frontier.
            The annual Indiana History Conference will be held on  Friday and
                    Saturday, December 9-10, at the Claypool Hotel in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Readers of the Indiana Magazine of History, if there be any who have
                    not attended such meetings in previous years, will find it interesting and profitable to be present
                    this year. Programs will be mailed to members of the Indiana Historical Society. Others may obtain
                    copies by writing to the Secretary of the Indiana Historical Society, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            A New memorial to Abraham Lincoln was dedicated at Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , Indiana, on September 16, 1932. This heroic bronze statue of "Lincoln, The
                    Hoosier Youth", created by Paul Manship under the sponsorship of the Lincoln Life
                    Foundation, stands on the Plaza in front of the Lincoln Life Insurance Company building. The work
                    rises twenty-four feet above the sidewalk and it was the aim of the sculptor to present Lincoln as
                    he appeared at the age of twenty-one, when his Indiana career just was coming to a close. Twenty
                    thousand people attended the dedicatory exercises. The principal address was delivered by the Hon.
                    Arthur M. Hyde, Secretary of Agriculture. Other speakers were Ida M. Tarbell, Senator James E.
                    Watson, Reverend Joseph R. Sizoo, pastor of the church in 
                        Washington
                     which Lincoln attended when President, Arthur F. Hall, president of the Lincoln Life
                    Insurance Company, Governor Harry G. Leslie, and the sculptor, Paul Man-ship.
            It was the aim of Manship to represent Lincoln, the young man, "as a dreamer and a poet
                    rather than as a railsplitter" These qualities were regarded as of more importance on
                    account of Lincoln's great accomplishments in later life. Had he not been a dreamer in his
                    youth and young manhood, he could not have performed in his mature years with such
                    "idealism and clarity". While these views dominated the thought of the artist, he
                    did not neglect other characteristics possessed by Lincoln at the end of his Hoosier period.
                    Interpreting the completed statue, Manship says: "Everyone has heard or read the stories of
                    Lincoln's youthful physical prowess, and so we have depicted Lincoln as the brawny youth
                    that he was. The ax tells the story of the railsplitting days. The book symbolizes his intellectual
                    qualities; and the dog reminds us of his exceptional love for animals as well as the greater feeling
                    of human sympathy and protectiveness. His clothes, I decided to 
                    make to represent Linsey-Woolsey homemade shirt, buckskin trousers, and boots."
            Contributors to this issue: Dr. Christopher B. Coleman, Secretary of the Indiana Historical Society
                    and Director of the Indiana Historical Bureau; Dr. Victor L. Albjerg, Associate Professor of
                    History, Purdue University; Mrs. Flora McDonald Ketcham, daughter of Judge David McDonald and a
                    resident of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Mrs. Nelle Decker Hubbard, a resident of 
                        Brazil
                    , Indiana, and historian of the Hendrix family; Arthur Homer Hays, Instructor in
                    American History in the High School of Boise, 
                        Idaho
                    , native of Indiana, and author of a novel of early Indiana, Notawkah,
                        Friend of the Miamis, which is just from the press.
         
         
         
            Reprints
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History may be obtained
                    by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as
                    many reprints of any article as may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the article of which reprints are desired is
                    published.
         
         
            Wanted and For Sale
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We will purchase copies of: vol. I, numbers 3 and 4
                    (September and December, 1905); vol. II, number 4 (December, 1906); vol. III, number 4 (December,
                    1907); vol. V, numbers 2,3 (June, September, 1909); vol. VI, numbers 1,3,4 (March, September,
                    December, 1910); vol. VII, numbers, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, September, December, 1911); vol. VIII,
                    numbers 1, 2, 4 (March, June, December, 1912); vol. IX, number 1, (March, 1913); vol. X, number 1
                    (March, 1914). Copies of all the issues of volumes IV and VII (1908 and 1911), we need very much. If
                    we can procure a few of each of the issues here listed, it will be possible to fully complete
                    several files of the Magazine.
            
            Copies of the following early issues may be purchased from the Indiana Magazine of
                        History at $1.50 per number; vol. I, numbers 1, 2 (March, June, 1905); vol. II,
                    numbers 1, 2, 3 (March, June, September, 1906); vol. III, numbers 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June,
                    September, December, 1907); vol. V, numbers 1, 4 (March, December, 1909); vol. VI, numbers 1, 2, 3,
                    4 (March, June, September, December, 1910); vol. VIII, number 3 (September, 1912). Volumes IX to XIX
                    (1913-1919), may be purchased at $4.00 per volume or $1.00 per number. Volumes
                    XX to XXVIII may be purchased at $2.00 per volume or fifty cents per number, except in
                    the case of certain rare numbers which it has been necessary to buy up at advanced prices. Such
                    numbers must be sold at $1.00 each.
         
      
   
