
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 46, Issue 1, pages 1-120. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:46+issue:1+year:1950&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            New Considerations on the Mission of Robert Dale Owen to the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies,
                    1853-1858
            
               Sexson E. Humphreys*
            Three studies have been previously written regarding the five-year mission of Robert Dale Owen as the
                    accredited diplomat of the 
                        United States
                     at the court of the Two Sicilies. The first was an address by Louis M. Sears to the
                    Indiana Historical Society, entitled "Robert Dale Owen's Mission to
                        Naples."1 This address still provides the basis for any study of
                    the mission. In its available form, it unfortunately lacks footnotes, yet as a summary of the
                    mission it is unlikely to be surpassed.
            Second in importance for the student of the Owen mission is the chapter on diplomacy in the standard
                    biography of Owen by Richard W. Leopold.2 As a biographer Leopold is interested
                    chiefly in the relation of the diplomatic episode to the remainder of Owen's many-sided
                    career. There are footnotes referring to the important dispatches from Owen, but there are few
                    interpretations of the mission which differ substantially from those previously reached by Sears.
            A third article, "Some Correspondence of Robert Dale Owen," by Sears consists of a
                    few personal letters written by Owen while he was in 
                        Naples
                    , but they speak of little more than the beauty of the city.3
                    Neither Leopold, the 
                  * Sexson E. Humphreys is state editor of the 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, News.
                  
                     1
                            Indiana History Bulletin (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1923), VI, Extra No. 2 (May, 1929), 43-51.
                  
                     2
                            Robert Dale Owen: A Biography (
                        Cambridge, Massachusetts
                     , 1940), 307-320.
                  
                     3
                            
                        Mississippi Valley Historical Review (
                                Cedar Rapids
                            , 
                                Iowa
                            , 1914-), X (1923-1924), 306-324.
               
                     biographer, nor any student of diplomatic history finds them of
                    particular importance in evaluating the mission.
            The present author has two reasons for desiring to add to the literature cited above. He has no
                    intention of taking exception to the interpretation of either Sears or Leopold. But he wishes first,
                    to give more details and a slightly different emphasis to certain phases of the mission, and second,
                    to consider the mission in a more definite relation to diplomatic developments affecting American
                    envoys to the other Italian nations at the same time.
            The same documents used by Sears and Leopold have been used by the present author. These documents,
                    the instructions of the state department to Owen and his dispatches to the secretaries of state, are
                    in the National Archives in 
                        Washington
                    .
            Little has been published in English on American-Italian diplomatic relations. An important book by
                    Leo F. Stock gives the complete text of diplomatic correspondence between the state department and 
                        United States
                     envoys in 
                        Rome
                     during the period of 1848-1868.4
            
            No such study exists for the kingdoms of Sardinia and the Two Sicilies, to which the 
                        United States
                     also sent envoys. When Howard R. Marraro prepared his volume on the unification of 
                        Italy
                    , he had access to all the documents then existing in the American embassy in 
                        Rome
                    , but the dispatches of Owen were not among them.5
            
            H. Nelson Gay published the most important studies in Italian,6 but he used the
                    same documents as Marraro and hence had no documentary knowledge of Owen's mission.
            As a matter of fact, the Owen mission is one of the brightest pages of the relations between the 
                        United States
                     and the pre-unification Italian states. Owen was actually the most eminent of the men
                    who represented the 
                        United States
                    
                    
                  
                     4
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Ministers to the Papal States: Instructions and Dispatches 1848-1868 (
                                Washington
                            , 1933).
                  
                     5
                            American Opinion on the Unification of 
                                    Italy
                                , 1846-1861 (
                                New York
                            , 1932).
                  
                     6 "Relazioni fra PItalia e gli Stati Uniti," Atti Congresso per la Storia del Risorgimento Italiano (Milan, 1907), I,
                            134-136; "Le Relazioni fra l'ltalia e gli Stati Uniti
                            (1847-1871)," Nuova Antologia (
                                Rome
                            , 1866-), Series 5, CXXVII (1907), 657-671; "Uno screzio diplomatico
                            fra il governo pontificio e il governo americano e la condotta degli sviszeri a Perugia il
                            20 Giugno 1859," Archivio Storico del Risorgimento Umbro,
                            (1796-1870), (8 vols., Perugia, 1905-1912), III (1907), 113-201.
               
                     at the courts of 
                        Naples
                    , 
                        Rome
                    , and Turin during the Italian Risorgimento. It was not until the appointment of George
                    Perkins Marsh as first minister to the united 
                        Italy
                     that another person of similar intellectual and cultural qualities was sent by the 
                        United States
                     to 
                        Italy
                    .
            Likewise, Owen's mission was one of the most successful of any sent to the Italian states in
                    the period. When he went to 
                        Naples
                    , the 
                        United States
                     and its citizens were victims of many kinds of vexations in the Two Sicilies; long
                    before the end of his mission, he was able to report that all pending disputes had been adjusted
                        satisfactorily.7 The adjustments were of such a nature that the 
                        United States
                     won increased stature in the eyes of the Neapolitan government, without resorting to
                    any threats. The adjustments also won the full respect of the Neapolitan government for Owen
                    himself, so that the latter part of his ministry in Naples was distinguished by cordial relations
                    between him and the king and the king's ministers. Owen negotiated two treaties with the
                    Two Sicilies and won all points desired by the 
                        United States
                     except one.8
            
            The American minister to Turin at the time of Owen's mission to Naples was John M. Daniel, a 
                        Virginia
                     newspaper editor. Conditions at the two courts were similar, although considerably more
                    liberalism was permitted at 
                        Turin
                    . Yet Daniel in his first few months at 
                        Turin
                     made a public spectacle of his dislike for the aristocratic traditions of European
                    courts, so that his recall had to be considered. Although he continued in office longer than Owen
                    and finally achieved a satisfactory diplomatic standing at 
                        Turin
                    , his mission was always handicapped by his initial inadroit-ness.
            At 
                        Rome
                    , Owen's contemporary was Lewis Cass, Jr. The latter owed his post largely to
                    the influence of his famous father. Appointed about the time of the Roman Revolution of 1849, the
                    young Cass had one of the most exciting missions of any American in Italian history. He showed a
                    great deal of skill during that revolution, maintaining 
                  
                     7 Dispatch No. 29, Owen to Secretary of State William L. Marcy,
                            January 1, 1855.
                  
                     8 William M. Malloy (comp.), Treaties, Conventions,
                                International Aete, Protocols and Agreements between the 
                                    United States
                                 of America and other Powers, 1776-1909 (2 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1910), II, 1814-1824.
               
                     the neutrality of the 
                        United States
                     and the respect of both the Mazzinian government and the papal government. The mission
                    also was made notable by the presence in 
                        Italy
                     of Margaret Fuller Ossoli during those trying years, by her assistance to the
                    republican army in 
                        Rome
                     and by Cass's services to her at the time of her difficult pregnancy.9 But after the revolutionary excitement was over, the Cass mission was an
                    undistinguished one. Between 1853 and 1857, when his mission ended, there were no such achievements
                    recorded for the legation at 
                        Rome
                     as for Owen at 
                        Naples
                    .
            Robert Dale Owen accepted the appointment as chargé d'affaires to the Kingdom of
                    the Two Sicilies in a letter to Secretary of State William L. Marcy dated May 27, 1853. The letter,
                    written from 
                        Washington
                    , said Owen "hope[d] to set out on the business of the mission in four weeks
                    from today."10 He experienced a much greater delay, however. Low water
                    on the 
                        Ohio
                     slowed his return to 
                        New Harmony
                    . He was delayed further by the necessity of shopping in 
                        Philadelphia
                     and 
                        New York
                     for his "kit."11 Then he was ill for a week in 
                        Philadelphia
                     after leaving 
                        Washington
                     for 
                        New York
                     and debarkation. After reaching 
                        New York
                    , he was ill again for "eight or ten days." He finally sailed on
                    August 4 on the "Devonshire," which was "reported the fastest packet-ship
                    out of 
                        New York
                    ," but was "for her a tedious trip." It was September 1 when
                    he arrived in 
                        London
                    . By this time, his predecessor, Edward J. Morris, had already left Naples. He arranged
                    to meet Morris in 
                        Paris
                    , where the two men spent three days in discussion of the problems pertaining to the
                    mission at 
                        Naples
                    . Morris warned that September was an undesirable month to arrive in Naples. So Owen and
                    his family passed leisurely to Lyons and Marseilles and embarked on the "Ville de
                    Marseille," which landed at 
                        Naples
                     five days later, October 17, after stops at 
                        Genoa
                    , Leghorn, and Civitavecchia. On October 22, he was introduced to Commendatore Luigi
                    Carafa, the Neapolitan foreign minister and a member of one of Naples' most famous
                    families. He found the foreign minister "a man of kind and simple manners." Owen
                    rented 
                  
                     9 Emma Detti, Margaret Fuller Ossoli e i suoi
                                Corrispondenti (Florence, 1942), 318-346.
                  
                     10 Unnumbered letter, Owen to Marcy, May 27, 1853.
                  
                     11 Dispatch No. 1, Owen to Marcy, October 22, 1853.
               
                     an apartment on the Riviera di Chiai at the Villa Reale, which
                    was then Naples' only public park.12 This was to be the 
                        United States
                     legation while he remained there.
            Owen first applied himself to ending the annoyances which had come into the relations between the 
                        United States
                     and the Two Sicilies. These were numerous, but he found that most of them were related
                    in one way or another and that almost all were centered in the port of Messina.
            The first case was that of the American brig, "Governor Brown." On October 6, 1853,
                    six days after that ship arrived at 
                        Messina
                    , five men who identified themselves as customs agents came on board the vessel at dock,
                    searched the hold and forecastle, and forced the captain and mate to open their personal cabins and
                    trunks to minute examination. The consul at 
                        Messina
                    , F. W. Behn of 
                        Kentucky
                    , protested in vain. After he had made "every reasonable effort" to
                    settle the case in Messina, he informed Owen, who took the case to Commendatore Carafa on November
                        25.13 Following an investigation and some correspondence, Carafa told Owen
                    that the incident had been the usual customhouse inspection made with "urbanity and
                        courtesy."14 He suggested that the consul at 
                        Messina
                     should act with more "calmness." Owen had some reason to believe that
                    Behn was too excited. From Commodore Silas H. Stringham, the commander of the 
                        United States
                     Mediterranean squadron stationed at 
                        La Spezia
                    , Owen learned that Behn had requested a naval vessel be sent to Messina for
                    "moral effect."15 Since this went beyond consular authority,
                    Commodore Stringham took no action. Owen, however, was inclined to believe that the weight of right
                    was on Behn's side, and he replied to Carafa that the investigation was not normal and that
                    it was not made until long after the normal time for customs inspections. He asserted that the
                    inspection was intended as an example for other captains of vessels at 
                        Messina
                     to indicate the annoyances they would face if agents selected by the port police there
                    were not employed.16
            
            Long before the settlement of the "Governor Brown" 
                  
                            12
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     13 Dispatch No. 6, Owen to Marcy, February 8, 1854.
                  
                            14
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     15 Dispatch No. 4, Owen to Marcy, November 28, 1853.
                  
                     16 Dispatch No. 6, Owen to Marcy, February 8, 1854.
               
                     case, there was another protest over conditions at 
                        Messina
                    . James Carbone, a native of Sicily who had emigrated to 
                        Massachusetts
                     and had become a citizen of the 
                        United States
                    , landed at 
                        Messina
                     on the brig, "
                        Chatham
                    " November 15, 1853. Port police refused to permit him to go ashore. They
                    charged he had been arrested on a political issue in 1852 and had been released only on condition
                    that he leave the kingdom and not return. The consul proved that this was another Carbone, but he
                    was unable to persuade the police to release the American. When the "
                        Chatham
                    " left the port, Carbone was confined to the port police station and its yard.
                    Behn was told privately by the port police that the man was objectionable because he had associated
                    with liberal exiles at 
                        Genoa
                     when the "
                        Chatham
                    " stopped there. After three letters from Owen to Carafa, the man was set free
                    December 22, 1853, on the consul's guarantee of his good behavior. He transacted his
                    business and returned to 
                        Boston
                    .17
            
            The Bonanno case was a direct sequel to the "Governor Brown" case. Paolo Carbone
                    (not related to James Carbone) had been assigned to the captain of the ship as his agent. The
                    appointment was made by Malato, the commissary of marine police. Finding Paolo Carbone
                    unsatisfactory, the captain dismissed him and employed an Italian citizen named Vincenzo Bonanno. On
                    October 4, just two days before the tardy customs inspection of the "Governor
                    Brown," Bonanno was imprisoned. The agent's wife told the ship's captain
                    her husband would be released as soon as he reemployed Paolo Carbone. This the captain refused to
                        do.18 When Owen protested, Carafa replied on April 8, 1854, that Bonanno had
                    been arrested for violating the rotation system established by the port police to give equal
                    employment to all agents.19 Owen objected because this compulsory rotation
                    violated the article of the treaty of commerce giving citizens of each nation the right to commit
                    the management of their affairs to such agents as they should choose.20
                    Apparently, 
                  
                     17 Dispatch No. 4, Owen to Marcy, November 28, 1853; Dispatch No. 5,
                            Owen to Marcy, February 4, 1854.
                  
                     18 Owen to Carafa, January 13, 1854, enclosure in Dispatch No. 10,
                            Owen to Marcy, April 11, 1854.
                  
                     19 Dispatch No. 10, Owen to Marcy, April 11, 1854.
                  
                            20
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     the Sicilian government found that Owen's point was well
                    taken. Carafa replied that Bonanno's arrest had taken place solely because the
                    man's conduct was "calculated to disturb public order" and "not
                    by any means because he had been chosen by the captain of the ‘Governor
                    Brown.’" The foreign minister, however, informed Owen "that there has
                    been issued, by the proper royal authorities, renewed orders that all captains of foreign ships
                    shall be left at entire liberty in their choice of watermen."21 Owen
                    felt he had won his point and that no reply was necessary.22
            
            On the Carbone case, however, he felt more strongly. He actually seems to have considered that a
                    break in diplomatic relations might be necessary. On November 14, 1854, he wrote Marcy "I
                    hope and confidently expect to succeed without resorting to extreme measures; since I exceedingly
                    dislike the eclat and annoyance attendant even on a temporary rupture; and am of the opinion, in
                    nine cases out of ten, even of what seems serious difficulty, a minister may, by prudent management,
                    avert such a contingency."23
            
            It was the demand for an indemnity that brought the crisis which caused Owen to write in such ominous
                    language. As Great Britain was later to learn in the Cagliari case, the question of indemnity was an
                    insult to the pride of the Neapolitan government. Carbone filed his claim for damages in June, 1854,
                    stating no precise figure. Owen computed the probable total at five hundred Neapolitan piasters,
                    about four hundred and eighty dollars, and laid the claim before Carafa.24 In
                    reply, the latter sent back a copy of a paper signed by Carbone in which the man denied he was an
                    American citizen.25 After some correspondence with Behn at 
                        Messina
                    , Owen decided that Carbone had signed the paper under duress. He, therefore, obtained a
                    copy of Carbone's certificate of naturalization and sent it to Carafa as his reply.26
            
            The case then came to a head quickly. Owen received a visit from an Englishman, a Mr. Fowls, the
                    brother–in–law 
                  
                     21 Translation, Carafa to Owen, without date, included in Dispatch No.
                            12, Owen to Marcy, May 15, 1854.
                  
                     22 Dispatch No. 12, Owen to Marcy, May 15, 1854.
                  
                     23 Dispatch No. 24, Owen to Marcy, November 14, 1854.
                  
                     24 Dispatch No. 17, Owen to Marcy, August 11, 1854.
                  
                     25 Dispatch No. 24, Owen to Marcy, November 14, 1854.
                  
                            26
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     of G. Castrone, the intendente (governor) of
                    Messina. Owen was informed by Fowls that the difficulty at 
                        Messina
                     lay chiefly in the refusal of Behn to accede to Malato's demand for a gratuity
                    of one piaster per ship landing there. This gratuity and the compulsory rotation of agents regulated
                    by the police were Malato's means of supplementing the small income he received from the
                    Sicilian government. Owen informally offered to reduce his demand for damages if Malato were removed
                    from office.27 Early in December, Owen was called to the office of Giovanni
                    Cassisi, minister of Sicilian affairs. Cassisi admitted that his government was in the wrong, paid
                    two hundred and fifty ducats indemnity (about two hundred dollars), and stated that Malato had been
                    removed from office. In addition Cassisi said that the Neapolitan government desired to have no
                    record of the transaction, which it considered uncomplimentary to itself. He asked that Owen be
                    content to have the affair show only in the 
                        United States
                     records and in the financial accounts of the city of Messina, which paid the indemnity.
                    This arrangement was satisfactory to Owen.28
            
            Actually, the abuses against Americans and American vessels at 
                        Messina
                     had ceased before the end of 1853.29 But Owen, by firm action on
                    the very first incidents which arose after his arrival and by the support of the American consul at 
                        Messina
                    , had commanded the respect of the highest Sicilian authorities and had won an indemnity
                    which—more than it would help Carbone, the damaged individual—would insure
                    that no Sicilian city dare again allow itself to be cause for complaint by American ship captains.
                    Behn's exequatur had been held up for a long time by the authorities who objected to his
                    "excited" protests. His commission was transmitted to Owen on January 20, 1854;
                        30 previously he had been acting consul by appointment of Morris. No
                    exequatur was issued by the Neapolitan government until the middle of September.31
            
            Two incidents at 
                        Palermo
                     brought action from Owen. In the first, he acted out of courtesy to another American
                        
                  
                     27 Dispatch No. 25, Owen to Marcy, November 20, 1854.
                  
                     28 Dispatch No. 26, Owen to Marcy, December 6, 1854.
                  
                     29 Dispatch No. 6, Owen to Marcy, February 8, 1854.
                  
                     30 Instructions No. 3, Marcy to Owen, January 20, 1854.
                  
                     31 Dispatch No. 20, Owen to Marcy, September 26, 1854.
               
                     government, Venezuela, which had no minister at 
                        Naples
                    . Fortunato Corvaia was the son of a woman who lived at 
                        Palermo
                    , but he was himself a naturalized citizen of Venezuela. His mother scheduled a birthday
                    party for him. Since the date coincided with the birthday of Joachim Murat, the police at 
                        Palermo
                     ordered the young man to leave the kingdom, and the Venezuelan minister at 
                        Paris
                     asked Owen's good offices. In the course of the correspondence between the
                    American minister and Carafa, the Neapolitan minister obliquely referred to what Owen called
                    "the obnoxious doctrine" of "once a subject, always a subject."
                    Owen made an equally oblique reply, which he believed left the point open for further debate. That
                    was not necessary, however, since the deportation order against Corvaia was revoked.32
            
            The second case at 
                        Palermo
                     also concerned a political arrest. Julius C. Kretchmar, retiring consul at 
                        Palermo
                    , first reported the case to Owen on June 13, 1854. On that day the 
                        Palermo
                     police applied to the consul for permission to search the home of a naturalized
                    American citizen, Emanuel Sartorio, suspected of revolutionary designs. Following the search,
                    Kretchmar—‘to protect Mr. Sartorio" —appointed him acting
                    consul until the new consul, J. Jenkins Ross of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , should arrive. Kretchmar left 
                        Palermo
                     the next day. He said Sartorio, who was employed as chief clerk in a commercial house
                    at 
                        Palermo
                    , was "the only available person I can find to appoint" as acting
                        consul.33
            
            On July 8, F. D. Ruosch, Brazilian vice-consul at 
                        Palermo
                    , offered to call upon the director of police in an "endeavor to place before
                    him Mr. Sartorio's case in a fair and impartial light." Owen also had a letter
                    from Sartorio, stating that the "only evidence" found by police in his home was
                    certain Masonic materials, Odd Fellows' books, political pamphlets, and some Protestant
                    versions of the Bible. All of these, of course, were cause for criminal action in the Two Sicilies.
                    The Brazilian chargé d'affaires at 
                        Naples
                     authorized Owen to accept Ruosch's offer. Owen 
                  
                     32 Corvaia case is reported in two dispatches, No. 5, February 4,
                            1854, and No. 8, February 23, 1854.
                  
                     33 Mentioned without details in Dispatch No. 17, August 11, 1854.
                            Outlined in detail in Dispatch No. 18, Owen to Marcy, August 17, 1854.
               
                     also asked the Neapolitan government officially to recognize
                    Sartorio as acting consul until Ross arrived.34
            
            On July 29, Ruosch notified Owen that the director of police claimed to have "most evident
                    proofs of his [Sartorio's] criminal designs against the royal government." In the
                    course of the conversation, the director of police apparently used the word
                    "convicted" despite the fact that Sartorio had not been tried. Meantime, Carafa
                    refused to recognize Sartorio as acting consul, so Owen named Ruosch instead. He gave instructions
                    to Ruosch that Sartorio must be assured of a fair trial and informed the acting consul that the 
                        United States
                     insisted upon the right of its citizens to receive a just trial when charged in a
                    foreign court.35
            
            Marcy on September 9 gave his "cordial approbation" of Owen's judgment and
                    of the "humanity and commendable zeal" of the Brazilian vice-consul in the case.
                    He also authorized a protest to the government of the Two Sicilies if Sartorio's trial was
                    "manifestly arbitrary and illegal." Marcy told Owen he took no exception to the
                    refusal of the Neapolitan government to recognize Sartorio in any consular capacity.36
            
            Ruosch notified Owen on October 10 that Sartorio had "not been disturbed," and that
                    the 
                        Palermo
                     director of police had expressed to the Brazilian vice-consul in an interview
                    "a hope that the matter might be arranged."37
            
            This case, like that of Carbone, was settled informally. Once more it was Cassisi, the minister of
                    Sicilian affairs, who informed Owen of the settlement. He took the American envoy aside at the New
                    Year's day palace reception in 1855 and asserted that the search of Sartorio's
                    house had produced definite proof of the latter's Masonic connections—for which
                    he said the man ought to be prosecuted under Sicilian law. But he added that King Ferdinand II,
                    "anxious to give to the government of the 
                        United States
                     additional proof of his great desire to cultivate the most friendly relations, and
                    desiring further, to testify his good will to myself [Owen] individually, had instructed
                    … all proceedings against Mr. Sartorio to be withdrawn; in the hope that the warning he
                        
                  
                     34 Dispatch No. 18, Owen to Marcy, August 17, 1854.
                  
                            35
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     36 Instructions No. 9, Marcy to Owen, September 9, 1854.
                  
                     37 Dispatch No. 21, Owen to Marcy, October 21, 1854.
               
                     had received would induce him to abstain, in future, from
                    everything that is contrary to the law of the land."38
            
            Thus Owen's good judgment and the restraint he showed in pressing the case, which involved a
                    man clearly guilty under Sicilian law, had once more resulted in a solution satisfactory to the 
                        United States
                     and highly complimentary to the American envoy. Sartorio's name appears again
                    in dispatches in 1855. Ross stayed at 
                        Palermo
                     only a few months—from October, 1854, to April, 1855. When he resigned, he
                    renewed the recommendation that Sartorio be appointed acting consul. He said there was no other
                    person in 
                        Palermo
                     suitable and that the Sicilian authorities there no longer had any objection to
                    Sartorio. Owen apparently took Ross's word without any attempt to check it. He told the
                    state department that he had "regretfully" accepted the arrangement, but at the
                    same time he transmitted to 
                        Washington
                     the request of a Mr. MacAuley, former 
                        United States
                     consul at 
                        Venice
                    , to be appointed to the post at 
                        Palermo
                    .39 The Neapolitan government, however, refused to recognize
                    Sartorio, even in a temporary capacity. Owen, therefore, temporarily appointed Henry H. Barstow, a
                    retired 
                        Massachusetts
                     schoolteacher, whom Ross had rejected.40 Owen's later
                    experience with Barstow indicated that the man was a satisfactory choice, and he obtained a
                    permanent appointment for him.41 It was unfortunate that Owen found it
                    impossible to travel to 
                        Palermo
                     and Messina and hence knew his consuls in those cities only by their letters or by the
                    comments of other people. He remained in Naples and kept the legation open the entire five years of
                    his mission, there being no secretary of legation to leave in charge.
            Owen had two other protests for the Neapolitan government. One was over an insult to the coat of arms
                    of the 
                        United States
                     displayed over the vice-consulate at Girgenti. This incident was reported by Kretchmar
                    at 
                        Palermo
                    . Prince Satriano, lieutenant general of Sicily, promptly apologized. The arms were
                    repaired at the town's expense and the mayor expressed his regret to the vice-consul.42
            
            
               
                  38 Dispatch No. 29, Owen to Marcy, January 1, 1855.
               
                  39 Dispatch No. 39, Owen to Marcy, April 23, 1855.
               
                  40 Dispatch No. 40, Owen to Marcy, May 7, 1855.
               
                  41 Instructions No. 23, Marcy to Owen, September 26, 1856.
               
                  42 Dispatch No. 10, Owen to Marcy, April 11, 1854; Dispatch No. 11, Owen
                        to Marcy, May 8, 1854.
            
            
            The other case concerned a guarantee of good conduct required by Neapolitan police, which had to be
                    put on the passports of all foreigners traveling in the kingdom by consuls or ministers of the
                    travelers' nation. Owen learned that the British minister, Sir William Temple, had refused
                    to do more than place a simple visa on the passport. Owen addressed a note, for which he gives no
                    date, to Carafa, demanding the same rights. He got no answer and the police refused to give travel
                    permits to Americans who did not bring the ministerial or consular guarantee that they would conduct
                    themselves peacefully and not become public charges. After a two-months delay, Owen finally obtained
                    from Carafa the information that the police authorities had decided to accept the endorsement
                    "bon pour le journer" in lieu of all other guarantees.43 Thus
                    Owen had won from the Neapolitan government equality of treatment with the British.
            After Owen had been in Naples nine months, he was promoted from chargé d'affaires
                    to minister resident at the same time similar promotions were given at other legations in 
                        Italy
                    .44 The increase in salary and expenses was welcome. Owen was ill in
                    the late spring of 1854 with a fever he hoped would be "acclimating in effect."45 In the late summer of that year, he kept his legation open through a cholera
                    epidemic which took 2,242 lives in Naples within a week.46 The cholera then
                    moved to Messina and Owen estimated that one person in three died in that city during the epidemic.
                    He noted that the mortality was increased by refusal of many persons to accept medical care because
                    of a belief that the disease was being spread by the government and that physicians would only
                    assist in spreading the plague.47 The 
                        United States
                     consul at 
                        Messina
                    , Behn, did heroic service during the epidemic, and the governor of the city, Castrone,
                    sent a special letter of commendation for Behn's work to General Filangieri, then the
                    lieutenant general of the island. A copy was sent to Owen, who translated it as follows: "I
                    cannot conclude the present communication without bringing 
                  
                     43 Dispatch No. 8, Owen to Marcy, February 23, 1854.
                  
                     44 Instructions No. 6, Marcy to Owen, July 17, 1854.
                  
                     45 Dispatch No. 13, Owen to Marcy, May 25, 1854.
                  
                     46 Dispatch No. 17, Owen to Marcy, August 11, 1854.
                  
                     47 Dispatch No. 20, Owen to Marcy, September 26, 1854.
               
                     to Your Excellency's notice the fact that Mr. Behn, the
                    American consul has given rare proofs of courage and self-devotion, which cannot be too much
                    admired. He has been physician, attendant, father, benefactor, in every case where his attendance
                    could be required. In a word he has omitted nothing which could merit the gratitude of a country
                    stricken down by the hand of God under so dreadful a calamity. He visited and assisted me in those
                    terrible days, when I saw myself abandoned by all others; and I feel deeply the grateful duty which
                    impels me to make known, to the head of the government, the good offices thus rendered by a
                    foreigner during moments of such universal desolation."48
            
            A treaty regarding the rights of neutrals in time of war and a treaty of amity, commerce, and
                    navigation may be accredited to Owen. The first was similar to one negotiated in 1854 between the 
                        United States
                     and Russia. A draft treaty was sent by the state department to all its envoys in
                    Europe. Owen, who was able to obtain the desired treaty, had his first interview with Carafa
                    regarding this matter on October 21, 1854, and presented the draft at that time. Four days later,
                    Carafa informed him that the Neapolitan government was prepared to conclude and sign the treaty.
                    Full powers were sent to Owen on November 29, and he acknowledged receipt of them on January 1,
                    1855. The treaty was signed on January 13, and Marcy notified Owen of senatorial ratification on
                    March 10.49
            
            The treaty of commerce was negotiated almost as quickly, but not without obstacles. When Marcy
                    instructed Owen to negotiate a new treaty, he had stressed the importance of obtaining an article
                    guaranteeing to 
                        United States
                     citizens the right of worship and interment in the Two Sicilies.50
                    From the time he first received these instructions, Owen doubted whether any such clause could be
                    obtained. He told Marcy immediately that he anticipated 
                  
                     48 Quoted in Dispatch No. 22, Owen to Marcy, October 23, 1854.
                  
                     49 Instructions No. 6, Marcy to Owen, September 8, 1854; Dispatch No.
                            21, Owen to Marcy, October 21, 1854; Dispatch No. 23, Owen to Marcy, October 25, 1854;
                            Instructions No. 10, Marcy to Owen, November 29, 1854; Dispatch No. 29, Owen to Marcy,
                            January 1, 1855; Dispatch No. 30, Owen to Marcy, January 13, 1855; Instructions No. 13,
                            Marcy to Owen, March 10, 1855.
                  
                     50 Instructions No. 12, Marcy to Owen, February 6, 1855.
               
                     "no relaxation of the exclusive bigotry which for ages
                    has prevailed here."51 Yet he tried with all his ability to carry out
                    Marcy's instructions and wrote that he "did not give way until I had completely
                    satisfied myself that I must surrender the article, while saving the treaty, or lose treaty and
                    article together." He added, "It would probably have been as easy to extort such
                    an article from 
                        Spain
                     under Ferdinand the Catholic and his consort, as now from 
                        Naples
                    , under her Ferdinand, not less Catholic." The Neapolitan
                    plenipotentiaries argued that in practice foreigners had no reason to complain of any persecution
                    for conscience' sake in Naples. Indeed the only annoyance recorded along this line was the
                    arrest of Sartorio, and his real crime was not possession of Protestant literature so much as
                    possession of Masonic literature. At the time the treaty was being negotiated, there were three
                    American families residing in 
                        Naples
                    , and two of these families had only two members each. In the winter tourist season,
                    there were sometimes "upwards of a hundred Americans" in Naples at one time, but
                    few of them remained more than a week or two. Occasionally a few American families resided in
                    Sicily, but the total was probably never more than five, so far as can be judged from the dispatches
                    of the American minister. Actually it was only in Naples where there was any need at all of a place
                    for American Protestant worship. Owen doubted whether any church would have been built, even if the
                    permission had been given. All the Americans permanently resident in 
                        Naples
                    , he said, went to the Anglican chapel in the British legation. It was large and had
                    "at all times, vacant seats."52 In 
                        Naples
                    , likewise, there was no particular need for a cemetery for American Protestants, since
                    the one owned by the British was open, "by express agreement with the Neapolitan
                    government," to all Protestants. Owen found it "spacious and handsome"
                    and noted that a burial place could be obtained in it at any time for twenty dollars.53
            
            Ferdinand's plenipotentiaries for the commercial treaty were Commendatore Carafa, Prince
                    Comitivi, and Don Giuseppe Arpino, the advocate general. Because Carafa was ill at that time and
                    hence played no part in the negotiations, 
                  
                     51 Dispatch No. 33, Owen to Marcy, March 11, 1855.
                  
                     52 Dispatch No. 48, Owen to Marcy, October 2, 1855.
                  
                            53
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     the greater part of the work took place between Owen and Don
                    Giuseppe. Owen looked upon the advocate general as the chief spokesman in the Naples government in
                    favor of a modern attitude toward commerce with the outside world.54 More often
                    than not, the American minister thought the prevailing policy in the Two Sicilies "to have
                    very much of the Chinese character" of non-intercourse. He was of the opinion that the
                    Sicilian government at least awoke to the fact that their commercial system was behind the times and
                    imperatively demanded reform.55 The steps which had been taken toward
                    reform—opening of indirect trade, abolition of differential duties, and consideration of
                    a free port— Owen credited to the influence of Don Giuseppe, whom he called "the
                    ablest public official I have met in Sicily." The American commercial treaty was the
                    advocate general's last official achievement. Scarcely a week after it was signed, he died
                    suddenly, "some say of cholera, some say of apoplexy."56
            
            Owen spent almost a month in preparing the draft treaty upon the basis of Marcy's
                    instructions. Then he presented it to Carafa in June.57 No further negotiations
                    took place until the end of the summer. Then in three meetings Owen, Prince Comitivi, and Don
                    Giuseppe agreed upon the treaty.58 According to the Hoosier Democrat, the final
                    document was "not only more liberal, especially in its commercial bearings, than that [the
                    treaty] it replaces; but it is the most liberal [treaty] yet obtained by any foreign power from the
                    government of the Two Sicilies." He added "It places our vessels, whether engaged
                    in direct or indirect trade, on the same footing as national vessels; it abolishes all differential
                    duties; several important rights of person and property are more strongly guarded in it; provision
                    is made for the surrender of fugitive criminals, and for personal and commercial protection in case
                    of war; the principle of ingress to blockaded ports is determined; the terms of blockade and
                    contraband of war are defined."59 Owen could 
                  
                     54 Dispatch No. 41, Owen to Marcy, June 20, 1855; Dispatch No. 49,
                            Owen to Marcy, October 6, 1855.
                  
                     55 Dispatch No. 47, Owen to Marcy, September 7, 1855.
                  
                     56 Dispatch No. 49, Owen to Marcy, October 6, 1855.
                  
                     57 Dispatch No. 41, Owen to Marcy, June 20, 1855.
                  
                     58 Dispatch No. 46, Owen to Marcy, September 7, 1855.
                  
                     59 Dispatch No. 48, Owen to Marcy, October 2, 1855.
               
                     make no claim that the treaty was a liberal one, except in
                    comparison with other treaties which had been signed by the Two Sicilies. It was still far behind
                    treaties in effect among the principal commercial nations of the world.
            The negotiations, despite the disagreement over the religious article, were most cordial. After the
                    second meeting, Don Giuseppe took Owen into a private conference to express the "particular
                    wish" of King Ferdinand that the 
                        United States
                     should name a minister plenipotentiary to Naples. There had been no corresponding
                    increase in the rank of the Sicilian chargé d'affaires at 
                        Washington
                    , Baron Winspeare, when Owen was promoted to minister resident. The advocate general
                    explained this was because the Two Sicilies did not have the rank of minister resident in its
                    diplomatic corps. He further stated that Ferdinand would immediately reciprocate the appointment of
                    a minister plenipotentiary. The proposed promotions, however, were never made. He also expressed the
                    king's desire for a fortnightly steamship line between 
                        New York
                     and Naples or to southern 
                        Italy
                     in general.60
            
            Owen took advantage of the conversation to urge the Neapolitan government to establish a free port
                    area at 
                        Naples
                    , where material destined for other countries could be left in bond until transshipped.
                    Don Giuseppe said it could be officially stated that one would shortly be designated. The project
                    apparently died with the advocate general, as there appeared to be no inclination on the part of the 
                        United States
                     state department to press the issue. Owen urged Marcy to take the initiative in
                    pressing the matter with the Neapolitan chargé in 
                        Washington
                    , but so far as available records show nothing was done.61
            
            After the treaty was signed, there was a long delay in its ratification. This may have been due
                    partly to congressional objections because of the omission of the article on religious freedom.
                    Actual and official objection, however, was taken to such technical clauses as extradition and
                    bankruptcy matters. The treaty was to take effect only if ratified and a copy deposited in Naples
                    within a year after it had been signed. During the summer of 1856, Owen took frequent occasion to
                    call this clause to the attention of Marcy 
                  
                     60 Dispatch No. 46, Owen to Marcy, September 7, 1855.
                  
                     61
                            Ibid., Dispatch No. 49, Owen to Marcy, October 6, 1855.
               
                     and to urge that congress act without further delay. Meanwhile,
                    King Ferdinand personally inquired whether some difficulty had arisen. It was not until August,
                    1856, that Marcy notified Owen the treaty had been ratified. Ratification, however, took place in an
                    unusual way. In order not to miss the twelve-months deadline and at the same time to meet the
                    objections, the senate ratified an amended treaty, which had never been presented to the Two
                    Sicilies. Marcy believed the amendemnts were "too unimportant" to be rejected at 
                        Naples
                    .62 This proved to be the case.
            Nevertheless, the tender sensibilities of the court at 
                        Caserta
                     were wounded by what seemed the high-handed American action. The timing of the American
                    action was also unfortunate. The undiplomatic method of ratification used by the senate came to the
                    knowledge of the Neapolitan government just at the time that British-French intervention was
                    expected and while the crisis was occupying the full attention of the cabinet of the Two Sicilies.
                    When the crisis had eased, Carafa explained to Owen how the Bourbon feelings had been wounded by the
                    senate's action. A few days later, the ratifications were exchanged, after the government
                    of the Two Sicilies formally placed on record its objections to the ratification of the treaty by
                    the President before the questions involved had been submitted to Naples.63
            
            Both Sears and Leopold show a degree of surprise that Owen's correspondence is devoid of
                    criticism of Ferdinand II. The traditional history of Italian unification treats the last Bourbon
                    king of Naples as "il re bomba," a completely reactionary and ridiculous figure.
                    Of course, this is in fact an exaggeration. Ferdinand II was indeed one of the most reactionary
                    monarchs of his time—his ideas were those of the Congress of 
                        Vienna
                     but two revolutionary cycles later. Yet he seems to have had certain admirable traits
                    in addition to his piety. And it was in his kingdom and under his rule that the first railroad in 
                        Italy
                     was built—not in the supposedly more advanced Piedmont or Tuscany.
            Robert Dale Owen was an experienced politician and a conscientious diplomat. He did not make his
                    antipathies 
                  
                     62 Instructions No. 22, Marcy to Owen, August 21, 1856; Dispatch No.
                            60, Owen to Marcy, May 24, 1856, and other dispatches of 1856.
                  
                     63 Dispatch No. 67, Owen to Marcy, October 4, 1856; Dispatch No. 68,
                            Owen to Marcy, October 20, 1856; Dispatch No. 69, Owen to Marcy, November 8, 1856.
               
                     so apparent as did Daniel, the minister at 
                        Turin
                    . Owen was accredited as the 
                        United States
                     envoy to Ferdinand II and believed it his duty to keep on the best possible terms with
                    the sovereign at whose court he was assigned. He met the king rarely but found him always friendly
                    in attitude, both toward the 
                        United States
                     and toward its minister.64 It is interesting but apparently true
                    that the uncompromising autocrat at 
                        Caserta
                     was less suspicious of American democracy than was the constitutional monarch at 
                        Turin
                    . Owen found suspicion of America among the police of the Two Sicilies but not, as
                    Daniel did, among the officials of the court.
            But the fact that Owen was not critical of Ferdinand II should not blind the student to the fact that
                    he was often sharply critical of the Neapolitan government. It has already been seen how forcefully
                    and effectively he went about the eradication of an official at 
                        Messina
                     whose corrupt practices infringed upon the treaty rights of American merchant marine
                    captains. Notice has also been given to his harsh criticism of the commercial policies of the Two
                    Sicilies. Yet these are only a few of the critical passages to be found in his dispatches.
            Owen had scarcely arrived in Naples when he began his reproaches at the quarantine policies of the
                    Two Sicilies. His original instructions from Marcy were that he should make the kingdom's
                    "unjust and severe quarantine restrictions" a matter "for early
                    attention" and formal protest if desirable.65 Scarcely had Owen been
                    received by King Ferdinand than he gave instructions to Behn, the consul at 
                        Messina
                    , that "measures thus high-handed should be checked at once." He
                    promised the consul that he would "suffer none such, coming under my notice, to pass,
                    without satisfaction." A week later he wrote Marcy that during his "brief
                    residence," barely a month, he had "clearly perceived that nothing but constant
                    vigilance on the part of our consuls
                  
                     64 Although it is probable that Owen did see Ferdinand at diplomatic
                            receptions at least once a year, his dispatches mention only four conversations with
                            Ferdinand II—at the time of his presentation, No. 2, November 21, 1853; at the
                            time of his presentation as minister resident, No. 20, September 26, 1854; at the time the
                            king inquired about the delay in ratifying the commercial treaty. No. 60, May 24, 1856; and
                            at the time of Owen's leave-taking, No. 94, September 20, 1858.
                  
                     65 Instructions No. 1, Marcy to Owen, July 2, 1853.
               
                     and the legation will prevent breaches of treaty and of
                    international comity, of grave character" in connection with the quarantine rules of the
                    Two Sicilies.66
            
            In the spring of 1854, Owen complained to Marcy of the "exceedingly high postal
                    rates," and added: "The Sicilian government, in this as in other things, is going
                    backwards while the rest of the world is progressing." Later in the same year, in
                    connection with the Sartorio case, he referred to the Two Sicilies as a "government of
                    arbitrary or despotic character."67
            
            In 1856, Owen wrote three long dispatches regarding the abuses in connection with monetary exchange
                    in the Two Sicilies. Complaints had been made by travelers and merchants of various nations. When
                    Great Britain decided it was not a proper matter for diplomatic protest, the 
                        United States
                     and other nations made no representations to the Neapolitan government. But Owen made
                    his own opinion clear to Marcy when he said, "The Neapolitan government mint has been
                    converted into a source of heavy profit, legitimate and unusual, and especially onerous to
                        foreigners."68
            
            Owen doubted the sincerity of the government of the Two Sicilies in its relations with Great Britain
                    in 1855. He found it "evident" in his conversation with Don Giuseppe
                    "that the feeling of this government against 
                        England
                     is strong and becoming embittered; and that, not regarding the permanent interests of
                    the two countries as coincident, they do not expect to establish cordial relations with
                        her."69
            
            The American minister's sharpest political comment was made in 1857. A short time earlier he
                    had thought it necessary to ask that a 
                        United States
                     warship come to Naples to protect Americans and American interests there in the face of
                    the possibility of a revolution. Sending the ship back to La Spezia, he told Marcy: "I do
                    not indeed, regard the public affairs of this kingdom as, by any means, in a settled condition. Yet
                    after careful enquiry, I find no suf-ficial reason to anticipate any immediate outbreak. Months
                        
                  
                     66 Owen to Behn, November 23, 1853, enclosure in Dispatch No. 3, Owen
                            to Marcy, November 28, 1853.
                  
                     67 Dispatch No. 11, Owen to Marcy, May 8, 1854; Dispatch No. 18, Owen
                            to Marcy, August 17, 1854.
                  
                     68 Dispatch No. 58, Owen to Marcy, March 31, 1856; Dispatch No. 56,
                            Owen to Marcy, February 22, 1856.
                  
                     69 Dispatch No. 47, Owen to Marcy, September 7, 1855.
               
                     seem to me as likely to elapse as days, before the occurrence of
                    such an event. It can, however, in my opinion, be ultimately averted, only by a change of policy in
                    the Sicilian government, of which, for the present, there are no indications."70
            
            Such comments as these should refute any implication that Owen was untrue to his training as a
                    "western democrat" or was blind or callous to the faults of the government to
                    which he was accredited.
            Twice in the latter years of his mission at 
                        Naples
                    , Owen requested the presence of an American warship in the harbor. The request by Behn,
                    acting consul at 
                        Messina
                    , for a naval vessel for "moral effect" in the Sicilian harbor, was
                    apparently ignored by Commodore Stringham, then commanding the Mediterranean squadron stationed at 
                        La Spezia
                    . Commodore Breese, who commanded the squadron in 1856 and 1857, responded quickly to
                    Owen's requests for naval support. In the crisis of the fall of 1856, when both the British
                    and French ministers demanded and obtained their passports, the "Congress" was
                    sent to Naples until Owen ascertained that the British and French fleets would not, "for
                    the present," enter the Bay of Naples. In 1857, after an attempt on the life of Ferdinand
                    II and some other violence at 
                        Naples
                     which Owen believed was intended to "prepare the way for a
                    revolution," the minister yielded to the pleas of tourists then in the city, and once more
                    asked Commodore Breese for a warship. This time the "Susquehanna" was sent and
                    remained about a month.71
            
            Owen skillfully avoided any entanglements with other missions in Naples. Although Marcy had
                    instructed him to concert with other nations' diplomats for a new code of quarantine, and
                    although 
                        France
                     temporarily broke diplomatic relations with Naples over the incident, Owen never got
                    the 
                        United States
                     into a position where such a breach had even to be considered on the issue. He reported
                    some relaxation in the "arbitrary and vexatious" quarantine rules by the royal
                    decree of May 15, 1854.72 But the troubles 
                  
                     70 Dispatch No. 75, Owen to Marcy, March 1, 1857.
                  
                     71 Dispatch No. 4, Owen to Marcy, November 28, 1853; Dispatch No. 68,
                            Owen to Marcy, October 20, 1856; Dispatch No. 69, November 8, 1856; Dispatch No. 73, Owen to
                            Marcy, January 30, 1857.
                  
                     72 Instructions No. 1, Marcy to Owen, July 2, 1853; Dispatch No. 3,
                            Owen to Marcy, November 29, 1853; Dispatch No. 14, Owen to Marcy, June 6, 1854.
               
                     did not cease. In the fall of the same year, he authorized
                    Lowther, the British chargé d'affaires, in a protest over vexation of travelers
                    at the border, to state that the American legation, as well as the British, "will suffer no
                    cases of unjust exclusion or detention to pass without suitable reparations."73 Yet he avoided getting the 
                        United States
                     into any share of the antipathy which the Neapolitan government had for the British.
                    During the Crimean War, in which both the 
                        United States
                     and the Two Sicilies were neutral and during which they signed a treaty regarding
                    neutral rights, the Russian and Prussian ministers called upon Owen to discuss neutrality.74 But he avoided aligning himself in any way with those diplomats.
            Both the previous students of the Owen mission have noted that there was little of historical
                    importance in the latter part of the period Owen was in Naples. There was a certain slackening of
                    activity after 1854. Owen's dispatch of January 1, 1855, reported there was not a single
                    issue remaining between the 
                        United States
                     and the Two Sicilies.75 Yet in the following two years, he did keep
                    up a fairly busy diplomatic schedule of activity. The negotiation of the two treaties got the
                    greatest attention in this period. But there were other important pieces of work for Owen.
            The state department wrote to all three of its ministers in 
                        Italy
                     regarding reports of abuses of the consular system in the peninsula. The minister in
                    Naples made an attempt to discover whether any such abuses existed in his jurisdiction. He got
                    enough information that he assured Marcy there seemed to be no serious abuses of the consular
                    privilege in the Two Sicilies. But if there were no abuses, the modern student will be surprised
                    when he learns the conditions Owen reports. According to Owen, there were three good consuls at the
                    time he left—A. Hammett in 
                        Naples
                    , F. W. Behn in Messina, and H. H. Barstow at 
                        Palermo
                    . They received a thousand dollars a year and were forbidden by law to engage in private
                    business or to make charges to the travelers and merchant ship captains whom they served.76
            
            
               
                  73 Dispatch No. 24, Owen to Marcy, November 14, 1854.
               
                  74 Dispatch No. 21, Owen to Marcy, October 21, 1854.
               
                  75 Dispatch No. 29, Owen to Marcy, January 1, 1855.
               
                  76 Instructions No. 11, Marcy to Owen, December 18, 1854; Dispatch No. 35,
                        Owen to Marcy, April 10, 1855; Dispatch No. 39, Owen to Marcy, April 23, 1855; Dispatch No. 76,
                        Owen to Marcy, March 4, 1857.
            
            
            Under these three consuls, there were several vice-consuls or more properly consular agents. Hammett
                    had none in his jurisdiction on the mainland. Each of the other two had two consular agents
                    responsible to him. In the Messina area, there were John B. Leavo, who had been vice-consul at 
                        Catania
                     since 1847, and Nuncio Stella, who had been vice-consul at 
                        Syracuse
                     since 1845. In the 
                        Palermo
                     area there were vice-consuls—similarly Italian subjects—at
                    Trapani and Girgenti.77 Of these latter two, Owen seems to have been unable to
                    learn even the names, because of the fact that just about the time the state department made its
                    inquiry, the consul at 
                        Palermo
                    , Ross, resigned and left the island. There were some American ships calling at all six
                    of the Sicilian ports. The greater number, of course, went to 
                        Messina
                     and 
                        Palermo
                    , where the consuls were American citizens. It was impossible, as has been noted, for
                    Owen to travel to any of the consulates to exercise any supervision or to make any inspection. If
                    the poorly paid consuls and the unpaid vice-consuls did not seek to extract some financial benefit
                    from the persons they served, they were persons of unusually high principle. It is altogether
                    probable that the complaints to the state department were more justified than Owen would admit.
            Owen had numerous chores to perform which partake of consular characteristics. In 1854, an American
                    ship "Devonshire," a different vessel from the one which gave Owen a tedious
                    crossing of the Atlantic, went ashore near Brindisi. Circumstances made the minister think there
                    might be fraud in connection with the sale of the ship at a price far below the insured value. There
                    was no 
                        United States
                     consul or consular agent on the Adriatic coast. Owen, however, got Commodore Turner,
                    then commanding at 
                        La Spezia
                    , to investigate the matter. The naval officer reported there seemed to be no fraud.78
            
            In 1855, Owen received two piasters from the Neapolitan government for delivery to three American
                    women tourists. The women had been robbed at 
                        Pozzuoli
                     by some soldiers. 
                  
                     77 Dispatch No. 35, Owen to Marcy, April 10, 1855; Dispatch No. 39,
                            Owen to Marcy, April 23, 1855.
                  
                     78 Dispatch No. 19, Owen to Marcy, August 24, 1854; Dispatch No. 20,
                            Owen to Marcy, September 26, 1854; Dispatch No. 21, Owen to Marcy, October 21, 1854.
               
                     The loot was recovered when the soldiers were arrested. He sent
                    it to the women, who had gone back to a hotel in 
                        Rome
                    . Owen refused to ask an audience with King Ferdinand on behalf of an American woman who
                    had a lawsuit in a court of the Two Sicilies. Nevertheless, she won the case. The minister reported
                    that two Sicilian sea captains had assisted in saving two American brigs and was authorized by the
                    state department to award medals to the two officers. Owen also had to make arrangements to ship
                    home a mentally deranged American resident of Naples. Moreover, he thanked the Neapolitan government
                    for sending a warship to tow a distressed American brig to port for repair.79
            
            Owen had been nominated for the Neapolitan post by President Franklin Pierce. On the day of President
                    James Buchanan's inauguration, he made a formal request to be recalled. Sears believes that
                    the minister was not eager to be recalled. It may be that some of the Hoosier Democrat's
                    political friends were interceding with President Buchanan to reappoint him. The state department
                    archives, however, do not show any such intercession. Owen did not leave the Neapolitan post until
                    his successor arrived, which was eighteen months after Buchanan took office. This might be
                    sufficient evidence to assume that he was not anxious to return to America. Many another envoy had
                    left his post before a successor was nominated. But it is equally true that Owen made no
                    extraordinary exertions of any kind during the portion of his tenure in the Buchanan administration.
                    He sent his quarterly legation accounts on schedule, delivered the ceremonial letters dispatched to
                    him for King Ferdinand, reported briefly on the settlement of the Cagliari case between the 
                        United Kingdom
                     and the Two Sicilies, reported than an American livestock breeder had been given two
                    goats from the herd of Ferdinand II, delivered an American government gift of Audubon's Birds of America to the Neapolitan government and in due time received in return
                    two volumes on Herculaneum and Pompeii, and noted that the December 16, 1857, earthquake in the
                    Basilicata cost fourteen thousand lives. Just about the
                  
                     79 Dispatch No. 31, Owen to Marcy, February 27, 1855; Instructions No.
                            14, Marcy to Owen, July 10, 1855; Dispatch No. 45, Owen to Marcy, August 6, 1855; Dispatch
                            No. 51, Owen to Marcy, October 29, 1855; Instructions No. 17, Marcy to Owen, February 14,
                            1856; Dispatch No. 72, Owen to Marcy, January 9, 1857.
               
                     only thing of real interest in the last eighteen months of his
                    mission was a minor incident of a British subject who posed as an American and in the course of the
                    masquerade borrowed money from Owen and others in Naples. The losses were made up and the man
                    permitted to leave the kingdom for the Papal States.80
            
            Owen learned the name of his successor, Joseph R. Chandler of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , in July of 1858.81 Chandler was presented to King Ferdinand on
                    September 20 of that year, as the final ceremony of Owen's mission to 
                        Italy
                    . In his last dispatch he wrote, "In closing my mission to this court,
                    prolonged now to upwards of five years and a quarter, I should be doing injustice to my own feelings
                    did I not bear testimony to the uniform and active kindness and unvarying courtesy with which I have
                    been treated here, both socially and in my official capacity, by all ranks and classes …
                    from king down to the humblest …. Imperturable good nature, evinced in a thousand little
                    good offices, and especially conspicuous in the kindness of the poor to those who are poorer than
                    themselves, is a marked characteristic of Neapolitan character; a character which may cover a
                    multitude of sins. No one who has resided for years in this, one of the most beautiful regions of
                    the civilized world, can leave it without regret; a regret tempered, in my case, by the prospect of
                    returning, once more, to a country of liberty and progress."82
            
            The state department expressed its gratitude for Owen's service by giving him pay, not only
                    for the time spent in returning home, but also for a month's "leave of
                    absence" in addition.83
            
            
               
                  80 Dispatch No. 76, Owen to Marcy, March 4, 1857; Dispatch No. 91, Owen to
                        Secretary of State Lewis Cass, June 10, 1858; Dispatch No. 89, Owen to Cass, May 8, 1858;
                        Dispatch No. 81, Owen to Cass, August 21, 1857; Dispatch No. 85, Owen to Cass, November 15,
                        1857; Dispatch No. 90, Owen to Cass, May 29, 1858; Dispatch No. 92, Owen to Cass, June 30, 1858.
               
                  81 Dispatch No. 93, Owen to Cass, July 18, 1858.
               
                  82 Dispatch No. 94, Owen to Cass, September 20, 1858.
               
                  83 Instructions No. 27, Cass to Owen, August 31, 1857.
            
         
         
         
            Encouragement of Immigration to the Middle West During the Era of the Civil War
            
               Maurice G. Baxter*
            In recent years the trend in historical writing and teaching is to emphasize social and economic
                    conditions and to study politics less intensely. History is now taken to mean the record of all
                    aspects of life in the past. Not only are presidents, congresses, and laws important, but education,
                    journalism, literature, religion, customs, agriculture, and industry are given full space in books
                    and in classroom sessions. On the whole, this would seem to be a commendable tendency, for an
                    understanding of a block of yesteryear must be derived from more than an investigation of what
                    happened in a national or state capital.
            The principal difficulty is that too many aspirants to historical knowledge do not realize the
                    fundamental connection between political and social developments. Each unit is considered in its own
                    small area so that much of the significance of an age escapes the student. The remedy lies in a
                    comprehension of the influence of the parts upon each other in order to see the whole as it was. For
                    example, the English joint-stock trading company and a colonial government, western land speculation
                    and the American Revolution, southern plantation economy and states' rights must be
                    examined for intertwining elements.
            One illustration of this fertile and not very well-tilled field is the story of immigration of
                    European peoples to the 
                        United States
                    . Especially during the middle of the nineteenth century were there political, as well
                    as social and economic, factors which affected the movement of several million men and women to the
                    youthful, prosperous American nation. The problem is to detect the combination of circumstances
                    which produced this result.
            By 1850 the chief national groups that were contributing large numbers of immigrants to the New World
                    were the British (English and Irish), Germans, and the Scandinavians (Norwegians, Swedes, and
                    Danes). Migration from northern Europe far exceeded that from central and southern 
                  * Maurice G. Baxter is an instructor in the history department at Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana. This paper was read at the Indiana History Teachers Association
                            session at the Thirty-first Annual Indiana History Conference at 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, on December 10, 1949.
               
                     areas, and it was not until the beginning of the twentieth
                    century that this situation changed. During the fifties the totals of persons coming from 
                        Ireland
                     and the German states were the largest and nearly equal, while in the sixties the
                    Germans were considerably more numerous. A sharp increase in Scandinavian immigration occurred
                    during the latter decade.1
            
            The Irish tenant farmer had been exploited by absentee landowners for years. His lot was a pitiable
                    one, in which he lived on the brink of disaster, suffered acutely from demands of heartless
                    landlords, and looked starvation in the face if there was a crop failure. In 1846 and 1847 the
                    terrible potato famines accentuated these long-standing troubles, and from this time many Irish
                    peasants set out for the 
                        United States
                     to improve their fortunes. Upon their arrival the great majority settled in eastern
                    cities where they served as mill hands, factory workers, and longshoremen. Some went to the Middle
                    West and were employed in canal and railroad building. Wherever they were, the Irish-Americans had
                    the reputation (often unjustified) of using liquor intem-perately, engaging in political chicanery,
                    wasting their financial resources, and being excessively devoted to Catholicism.2
            
            One spectacular cause for German immigration was the ill-fated revolution of 1848. After an
                    unsuccessful attempt to induce the Prussian king to lead a German federation of liberal hue, many
                    intellectuals and middle-class leaders were impelled to flee for their safety.3
                    In America these Forty-eighters soon were doing well—Carl Schurz, prominent politician
                    and Civil War general, is an example. The bulk of German immigrants, however, were rural folk, who
                    came over to take up a piece of land and become industrious farmers. Their destination was often 
                        Illinois
                    , Indiana, or 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and some localities today can trace their social characteristics to this period.
            In Norway and Sweden the economic motive to migrate to America was strong. The peasants had for a
                    long time been oppressed by a fairly rigid class system, which kept 
                  
                     1
                            
                                United States
                             Immigration Commission, Reports (40 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1911), III, 8-9.
                  
                     2 Carl Wittke, We Who Built America: The Saga of the
                                Immigrant (
                                New York
                            , 1939), 129-148; George M. Stephenson, A History of American
                                Immigration (
                                Boston
                            , 1926), 18-21.
                  
                     3 Wittke, Who Who Built America, 193-195.
               
                     them in a near-poverty condition. Small wonder that the
                    Scandinavian was convinced by so-called America letters from a relative or friend who had already
                    made the trip that he ought to come to 
                        Wisconsin
                     or 
                        Minnesota
                     where there was fertile, cheap land! Furthermore, in Sweden, there were many who were
                    dissatisfied with the national church system. Although there was little persecution, religious
                    dissent was sometimes dealt with rather harshly.4 The Scandinavian influx was
                    not great until the sixties and reached its peak in the eighties.
            It was not an easy journey from northern Europe to some interior point in the 
                        United States
                    . The steerages on ships were usually ill-ventilated, filthy, and overcrowded.
                    Passengers often had to supply and cook their own food under unfavorable conditions. Not only was
                    the trip uncomfortable, but it might be fatal if one contracted any of several diseases prevalent on
                    the miserable tubs that wallowed slowly across the ocean. When he debarked at 
                        Castle Garden
                    , the official depot at the foot of Manhattan Island, or at a similar place at 
                        Boston
                     or 
                        New Orleans
                    , the immigrant was a very confused person. Setting foot on the streets of 
                        New York
                    , he was overwhelmed by hordes of sharpers who were out to fleece him of his small
                    capital by overcharging him for a boardinghouse room and a railroad ticket. If he were fortunate, he
                    would have the fifteen dollars or so that was required to buy the fare to 
                        Chicago
                     or Milwaukee and would not linger until he had spent his last penny in the big city.
                    From 
                        New York
                     he might take rough accommodations on a train, often in a seatless boxcar, in order to
                    reach the Middle West. One commonly used route ran by way of 
                        Albany
                    , thence on the Erie Canal to the Lakes, and finally to 
                        Chicago
                    .5
            
            By the middle of the nineteenth century the volume of immigration had reached large proportions.
                    During the thirties about six hundred thousand alien passengers arrived in the 
                        United States
                    ; in the fifties, 2,598,214; in the sixties, 2,314,824. This was, of course, an
                    important cause for the increase in the total population of the country from twenty-three 
                  
                     4 Stephenson, History of American Immigration,
                            29-41.
                  
                     5 Wittke, We Who Built America, 113-125. Many
                            immigrants arrived at 
                                Quebec
                             and from there came into the Middle West. Marcus L. Hansen, The
                                Atlantic Migration, 1607-1860 (
                        Cambridge, Massachusetts
                     , 1940), 298-299.
               
                     million in 1850 to thirty-eight million in 1870. The peak year
                    in the two decades was 1854 when the total arrivals reached 427,833. Then the annual figures
                    declined until after the Civil War. Even in 1870 the number did not equal –that of 1854.
                    During the war, 1861-1865, there was a sharp slump; in 1861 only 91,918 were counted.6
            
            There were probably several reasons for the falling off of the immigration after 1854. For a couple
                    of years the Crimean War in Europe reduced the available shipping to carry passengers, stimulated
                    wage levels which had hitherto been depressed, and drew manpower into military service. But
                    conditions in the 
                        United States
                     were also important. An economic recession in 1854 and a more severe one beginning in
                    1857 probably caused many Germans and Irishmen to pause and consider before hazarding migration when
                    the outcome might be unemployment and suffering.7 During the Civil War the
                    uncertain destiny of the Union may have contributed to the decline in immigration. Again the
                    diversion of shipping to war duty was possibly an obstacle.
            It was a strange coincidence that in the same year in which immigration totals declined so greatly
                    the apex of American nativism was reached. By 1855 the Know-Nothing movement was in full bloom.
                    Founded on the proposition that aliens threatened existing institutions, the antiforeign sentiment
                    of the eighteen fifties seems to the present-day observer to be unrealistic and un-American.
                    Nevertheless, many people, especially Eastern workingmen, were convinced that the immigrant tide
                    depressed wage levels and caused widespread unemployment. It was said with some basis of truth that
                    a high percentage of undesirables (paupers, criminals, and prostitutes) were alien-born.8 If one were to believe the nativist argument, he would conclude that the Irish
                    were shiftless and corruptible, and that the German Forty-eighters were radicals scheming to involve
                    the 
                        United States
                     in a world revolution.
            
               
                  6
                        
                            United States
                         Immigration Commission, Reports, I, 56; Ninth 
                                United States
                             Census, 1870, Statistics of Population, 3. Until 1868 official reports
                        counted alien passengers arriving; afterwards, immigrants arriving.
               
                  7 Allan Nevins, Ordeal of the Union (2 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1947), II, 272-274; Hansen, Atlantic Migration, 304.
               
                  8 Nevins, Ordeal of the Union, II, 281-286.
            
            
            The rise and fall of the Know-Nothing party was rapid. Building on antiforeign and anti-Catholic
                    prejudice, Charles B. Allen of 
                        New York
                     formed a secret, "patriotic" society, the Order of the Star-Spangled
                    Banner, in 1849. For a while it was a local and unknown organization, but in 1854 it capitalized on
                    the 
                        Kansas
                    –
                        Nebraska
                     crisis, which was splitting up old party alignments. For a brief period, then, the
                    Know-Nothings were able to elect their candidates to state and national offices. Although they held
                    the balance of power in Congress in 1855, they were unable to push through their coveted measures to
                    restrict immigration. Proposals to prevent the ingress of potential criminals, paupers, and mentally
                    unfit were rejected. A measure to extend the required period of residence for naturalization to
                    twenty-one years also failed. Soon afterwards, the party disintegrated chiefly because it was
                    divided on a sectional basis with respect to the bitter slavery controversy.9
            
            The main strength of the Know-Nothings had been in the East and in the border states. Nativism was
                    never a powerful force in the Middle West. The obvious reason for this condition was that these
                    states were still in the early stages of their growth and could absorb immigrants with less social
                    and economic dislocation. From 1850 to 1870 
                        Wisconsin
                    's population increased from 305,391 to 1,054,670; 
                        Iowa
                    , from 192,214 to 1,194,020; 
                        Minnesota
                    , from 6,077 to 439,706; 
                        Illinois
                    , from 851,470 to 2,539,891; and Indiana, from 988,416 to 1,680,637.10 The great migration of Europeans to this region contributed heavily to such a breathtaking
                    development. Since a large population meant wealth, prosperity, and prestige for a state, it is easy
                    to see why the Middle West energetically encouraged immigration.
            In the sixties the federal government recognized the desirability of increasing the number of
                    incoming foreigners and took some action to that end. Realizing that the alien 
                  
                     9 Ray A. Billington, The Protestant Crusade, 1800-1860: A
                                Study of the Origins of American Nativism (
                                New York
                            , 1938), 336-337, 382-395, 410-427.
                  
                     10
                            Eighth 
                                    United States
                                 Census, 1860, Statistics of Population, 598-599, 604; Ninth 
                                    United States
                                 Census, 1870, Statistics of Population, 3. After 1860, although the
                            total population of the east north central states increased, the trend in internal migration
                            was a movement from this region to the trans–
                                Mississippi
                             states. In other words, 
                                Minnesota
                             and 
                                Iowa
                             gained from 
                                Illinois
                            , Indiana, and 
                                Ohio
                            . See Fred A. Shannon, The Farmer's Last Frontier (
                                New York
                            , 1945), 36-39.
               
                     influx had fallen off and that army enlistments had created a
                    shortage of industrial and agricultural labor, officials, such as Secretary of State William H.
                    Seward and President Abraham Lincoln, urged Congress to pass laws to encourage immigration.11 The result was the Contract Labor Law of 1864, which empowered a commissioner
                    to establish regulations for contracts between American employers and immigrants whose passage money
                    was advanced in return for a promise to work for a specified time. A superintendent of immigration
                    was assigned the duty of guarding the arriving alien from unfair transportation rates in his journey
                    into the interior.12
            
            Of course, the Contract Labor Law was especially designed to aid the eastern manufacturer in filling
                    up the ranks of his labor force, now depleted by military requirements and demanding expansion due
                    to stepped-up industrial production. Nevertheless, there were aspects of the policy which, it was
                    hoped, would induce immigrants to take up lands in the western states. Federal Land Commissioner J.
                    M. Edmunds had urged the passage of the law because he believed that "millions of active,
                    able-bodied men" would be drawn into the Mississippi Valley where they
                    could have farms "of the richest soil."13 And, according to
                    the 1864 measure, a contract advancing passage to America could operate as a lien on any land
                    acquired in the future by the immigrant. Private land and transportation companies were later
                    organized to take advantage of this provision.
            After 1864 there were efforts in Congress to amend the Contract Labor Law so as to make it more
                    readily enforceable in cases where immigrants had disregarded their contracts. But every such
                    attempt at technical improvement failed.14 Soon criticism arose as to the
                    conduct of the federal agents appointed to enforce the statute. The commissioner of immigration was
                    suspected of collusion with the American Emigrant Company, a corporation engaged in importing
                    contract 
                  
                     11
                            The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official Records of the Union
                                and. Confederate Armies (70 vols., 1880-1901), Series 3, II (1899), 358-359; House Reports of the Committees, 38 Cong., 1 Sess., no. 56 (serial no.
                            1206), 1.
                  
                     12
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, XIII, 397-398.
                  
                     13
                            House Reports of the Committees, 38 Cong., 1 Sess., no. 56, p. 7.
                  
                     14
                            Congressional Globe, 38 Cong., 2 Sess., 326, 1220; ibid., 39 Cong., 1 Sess., 2314; House Reports of the Committees, 39
                            Cong., 1 Sess., ho. 48 (serial no. 1272), 2.
               
                     labor. There was a revival of the belief that European countries
                    were dumping their undesirable peoples onto the 
                        United States
                    .15 Consequently, in 1868 the Contract Labor Law was repealed.16
            
            Another measure which was supposed to attract immigrants was the Homestead Act of 1862. But this act
                    was not very effective in making one hundred sixty-acre plots of land available practically free of
                    chargé to the individual farmer. Clever speculators were able to engross many square
                    miles of the best part of the public domain so as to leave only the less desirable areas for
                    homesteading. Taking up entries under each of several laws (such as the Desert Land Act, The Timber
                    Culture Act, and the Timber and Stone Act), making use of dummy-entry men and false swearing, and
                    sometimes conniving with officers of government land offices, the speculators skimmed the cream off
                    the top.17 Furthermore, the prospective homesteader, in this case the immigrant,
                    had to have some capital in order to buy the requisite equipment and supplies for the first year.18 Obviously, many immigrants were not financially able to do this. It would
                    seem, then, that the Homestead Law may have attracted immigrants from Europe, but it furnished only
                    qualified opportunity for them when they arrived in the Middle West.
            Much work in encouraging immigration was done by private agencies. One of the most active
                    enterprisers after 1863 was the American Emigrant Company, which secured a commission for directing
                    alien passengers to steamship companies and railroads. Other clients of the company were American
                    employers who wanted contract laborers either in manufacturing or in agriculture. By an extensive
                    campaign this corporation recruited groups of immigrant laborers for farmers and western railroads.
                    In one instance, an agent of the American Emigrant Company was also a state commissioner of
                    immigration. Thomas E. Souper of 
                        Missouri
                    
                    
                  
                     15
                            Congressional Globe, 39 Cong., 1 Sess., 4040-4042; 
                                United States
                             Immigration Commission, Reports, XXXIX, 22.
                  
                     16
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, XV, 58.
                  
                     17 Paul W. Gates, "The Homestead Law in an Incongruous Land
                            System," American Historical Review (
                                New York
                            , 1895-), XLI (1935-1936), 656-681.
                  
                     18 This viewpoint has been advanced in Fred A. Shannon, "The
                            Homestead Act and the Labor Surplus," American Historical Review,
                            XLI, 637-651.
               
                     assumed both duties in 1865. There were complaints that there
                    was some connection between the company and the federal commissioner of immigration during the days
                    of the Contract Labor Law. At any rate, the company probably had helpful and influential friends,
                    for it used Chief Justice Salmon P. Chase, Secretary of the Navy Gideon Welles, and Senator Charles
                    Sumner as references of recommendation.19
            
            The railroad companies were frequently engaged in inducing European farmers to come to the Middle
                    West and settle along their lines. The federal government had generously aided railroad construction
                    by large land grants from the public domain. In order to turn these areas into paying assets, the
                    companies offered to sell plots to immigrants on long-term credit. The buyer often had seven years
                    to retire the principal at six per cent interest.20
            
            The 
                        Illinois
                     Central Railroad conducted an ambitious colonization project. After 1857 its runners in 
                        New York City
                     were distributing handbills to arriving immigrants at 
                        Castle Garden
                    , and an office was maintained nearby. The pamphlets that were put in the hands of the
                    alien were enthusiastic about the merits of the railroad lands. One "guide"
                    announced: "The climate of 
                        Illinois
                     is salubrious. Upon the prairies there is always a refreshing breeze, and those
                    stifling, enervating heats, characteristic of the valleys and wooded regions are
                        unknown."21 Agents were dispatched to 
                        Canada
                    , 
                        Sweden
                    , 
                        Germany
                    , and 
                        England
                     to spread the gospel. From 1862 to 1866, Francis A. Hoffman, lieutenant-governor of 
                        Illinois
                    , worked for the company on a commission basis in selling lands to Germans. His sales
                    amounted to at least eighty thousand acres.22 A Lutheran pastor, T. N.
                    Hasselquist, organized a Swedish settlement at Paxton, one hundred miles south of 
                        Chicago
                     and succeeded in selling over thirty-six thousand acres.23
            
            
               
                  19 John R. Commons and John B. Andrews (eds.), A Documentary
                            History of American Industrial Society (10 vols., 
                            Cleveland
                        , 1910), IX, 74-78; Private Acts of 
                                Connecticut
                            
                   (1863), 39.
               
                  20
                        Atlantic Monthly (
                            Boston
                        , 1857-), VII (April, 1861), advertisement on back cover.
               
                  21
                        
                            Illinois
                         Central Railroad Company, A Guide to the 
                                Illinois
                             Central Lands (
                            Chicago
                        , 1859), 28.
               
                  22 Paul W. Gates, The 
                                Illinois
                             Central Railroad and Its Colonization Work (
                     Cambridge, Massachusetts
                  , 1931), 202-205.
               
                  23 Gates, "The Campaign of the 
                            Illinois
                         Central Railroad for Norwegian and Swedish Immigrants," Norwegian American
                        Historical Association, Studies and Records (
                     Minneapolis, Minnesota
                  , 1926-), VI (1936), 78-86. For further information about
                        Hasselquist see O. Fritiof Ander, T. N. Hasselquist, the Career and Influence of a
                            Swedish-American Clerygman, Journalist and Educator (
                     Rock Island, Illinois
                  ,
                        1931).
            
            
            The midwestern state governments also encouraged immigration so as to increase their population and
                    wealth. During the Civil War era one of the most active states was 
                        Minnesota
                    . The secretary of state was commissioner of immigration and distributed literature
                    describing the state's natural advantages.24 A state-wide contest in
                    which prizes were offered for essays setting forth useful information about 
                        Minnesota
                     was begun. These were then printed in the advertisements that were sent to 
                        Germany
                    , 
                        Sweden
                    , and 
                        Norway
                    . Even counties and congressional districts had boards of immigration which were
                    responsible for making lists of friends and relatives in foreign countries. These names were then
                    combined into a mailing list, and pamphlets were sent to them in huge quantities.
            Hans Mattson, the commissioner of immigration, executed his duties zealously. He visited Sweden and
                    arranged transportation for several groups. Although he met opposition from the upper class, who
                    feared the depletion of the country's population, Mattson reported impressive achievements.
                    As a result of the work from 1867 to 1869, he said that there was one continuous settlement along a
                    railroad line from Wright to 
                        Stevens County
                    .25
            
            
               
                        Wisconsin
                     established an office of commissioner of emigration in 185226 and a
                    board of immigration in 1867.27 Here, too, an elaborate network, reaching down
                    to local units, was built up. A special appeal was directed to Germans and Scandinavians, many of
                    whom were, of course, coming to 
                        Wisconsin
                     in the fifties and sixties. Keen competition with 
                        Minnesota
                     quickly developed.
            For a time, 
                        Iowa
                     lagged behind her neighbors. One cause for this was a strong strain of nativism that
                    stood in the way. In 1860, however, a commissioner of immigration was appointed and instructed to
                    reside in 
                        New York City
                    . He informed arriving passengers about the soil, climate, and 
                  
                     24
                            Laws of 
                                    Minnesota
                                
                      (1863-1864), 64-67.
                  
                     25 Hans Mattson, Reminiscences: The Story of an
                            Emigrant (
                        St. Paul, Minnesota
                     , 1892), 98-102.
                  
                     26
                            Acts and Resolves Passed by the Legislature of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                
                      (1852), ch. 432.
                  
                     27
                            General Laws of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                
                      (1867), ch. 126.
               
                     industry of 
                        Iowa
                     and advised them as to the cheapest and most expeditious route to get there. Soon
                    enthusiasm concerning official encouragement flagged and the commissioner's activities
                    ceased in 1862.28 The 
                        Burlington
                     and 
                        Missouri
                     Railroad complained in 1869 that the state used "poor and slight, if indeed
                    any means, to call attention to her vast resources, and thus attract people to her …
                    fertile plains."29 In the next two decades 
                        Iowa
                     directed a more alert policy.
            The story of an attempted official campaign by Indiana is an interesting one. Although, in the
                    fifties, a large number of Irish and Germans settled here, Indiana received less foreign immigrants
                    than any other state in the Ohio Valley. Many communities were heavily
                    populated by Irish canal and railroad workers or by German farmers, but at the close of the Civil
                    War some observers believed that the state was losing out in competition with adjacent regions.30 Governor Oliver P. Morton expressed this view in his message to the
                    legislature in January, 1865. He pointed out that too many immigrants were passing through Indiana
                    and settling elsewhere despite the fact that large areas were still undeveloped and offered
                    excellent agricultural opportunities.
            As a remedy, Morton urgently recommended the establishment of a bureau of immigration that would
                    distribute information about Indiana's natural resources and institutions throughout
                    Europe. Anticipating what was needed, the Governor announced that he had already directed the
                    preparation of a circular containing such material, and he then submitted it for the
                    representatives' approval.31 Neither this appeal nor one made to the
                    special session of November, 1865, were heeded by the general assembly. In his legislative message
                    of January, 1867, Morton reiterated his proposals, but his efforts were again fruitless.32
            
            
               
                  28 Marcus L. Hansen, "Official Encouragement of Immigration to 
                            Iowa
                        ," 
                     
                                Iowa
                             Journal of History and Politics (
                            Iowa City
                        , 1903-), XIX (1921), 159-195.
               
                  29 Quoted in Richard C. Overton, 
                     
                                Burlington
                             West (
                     Cambridge, Massachusetts
                  , 1934), 251. The 
                            Burlington
                         Railroad was active in promoting colonization in 
                            Iowa
                         during these years.
               
                  30 Logan Esarey, History of Indiana (2 vols.,
                                
                     Dayton, Ohio
                  , 1924), II, 629-631.
               
                  31
                        Journal of the House of Representatives of the State of Indiana, 1865, pp.
                        28-29.
               
                  32
                        Ibid., 1867, I, 39-40, and II, 836, 905; Journal of the Senate of
                            the State of Indiana, 1867, I, 55, 71, 426, 485-486, and II, 675.
            
            
            Solely by executive authority, on January 18, 1866, Acting Governor Conrad Baker appointed John A.
                    Wilstach "Commissioner for the encouragement of emigration to the State of
                    Indiana." Wilstach, resident of 
                        Lafayette
                     and author of studies of Vergil and Dante, supervised an exhibition of Indiana products
                    and minerals at the World's Fair in 
                        Paris
                     in 1867.33 A bill to reimburse Wilstach for his expenses was then
                    introduced in the senate by John A. Stein of 
                        Tippecanoe County
                    . The senators thought that an appropriation of five thousand dollars was unwarranted,
                    and the measure failed. Nevertheless, they were kind enough to confirm the commissioner's
                    appointment—without pay.34
            
            Governor Baker had not conceded defeat, for in his message to the assembly in 1869 he referred to the
                    desirability of a "small annual expenditure, for the purpose of attracting immigration to
                    the State." He argued that this outlay, "if judiciously disbursed, would soon be
                    repaid by the increase of taxable persons and property which would result therefrom."35 A bill making these provisions was coolly received in the house of
                    representatives. It was amended so that a board of immigration would consist of the governor
                    together with the president and the secretary of the state board of agriculture, but they were not
                    to be compensated for these services. Even this lukewarm provision failed passage.36
            
            At 
                  Glasgow, Scotland
               , the 
                        United States
                     Consul, Isaac Jenkinson, observed the indifference of Indiana in the inducement of
                    immigration. He wrote Governor Baker in March, 1870, that Indiana was little known in that important
                    port of embarkation although the advantages of 
                        Wisconsin
                     were 
                  
                     33 Unfortunately little information about Wilstach's work as
                            commissioner of immigration has been discovered. Biographical data can been found in Appleton's Cyclopaedia of American Biography (6 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1888-1889), VI, 558.
                  
                     34
                            Journal of the Senate of the State of Indiana, 1867, II, 786-788, 904-905,
                            975-976. The House approved a concurrent resolution confirming the appointment. Journal of the House of Representatives of the State of Indiana, 1867, II,
                            1223-1224.
                  
                     35
                            Journal of the House of Representatives of the State of Indiana, 1869, p.
                            62.
                  
                     36
                            Ibid., 597-655. The General Assembly in its special session in May, 1869,
                            adopted another measure to encourage immigration to Indiana. The franchise was liberalized
                            for persons of foreign birth by requiring only six-months residence in the state and a
                            declaration of intention of becoming a citizen. Laws of the State of Indiana,
                                Special, 1869, p. 60.
               
                     widely advertised. Jenkinson offered to distribute information
                    about the state if it were forwarded to him.37
            
            Late in 1870 most of the midwestern states and some from other sections sent delegates to a
                    convention at 
                        Indianapolis
                     to discuss problems relative to immigration. The meeting was suggested by a joint
                    letter signed by the governors of 
                  Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska,
                            Missouri, Kansas, Michigan
               , and 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and addressed to Governor Conrad Baker on October 18. The objective was a discussion
                    of reforms needed to protect immigrants during ocean passage and after arrival in the 
                        United States
                    . In the course of the meeting a sectional cleavage in views regarding immigration was
                    manifest.
            On November 25, representatives of twenty-two states and two territories convened in the chamber of
                    the house of representatives at the Indiana capital city. Governor Baker was chosen as the permanent
                    presiding officer. Edward Young, chief of the 
                        United States
                     Bureau of Statistics, summarized the history of immigration and emphasized the value to
                    the country of each arriving alien. Governor John M. Palmer of 
                        Illinois
                     was present and gave a lengthy address in which he called for better enforcement of
                    laws to protect immigrants from fraud and other forms of injustice. Palmer hinted that greater
                    diligence on the part of the national government might be needed.
            This was a source of a bitter controversy. The inland states thought that 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Massachusetts
                     were permitting inexcusable mistreatment of people who arrived at their ports. They
                    held that there were many instances of profiteering in the sale of railroad tickets and that state
                    authorities co-operated with unprincipled private agents by permitting these deplorable conditions.
                    Another complaint referred to a 
                        New York
                     head tax of two dollars and a half, levied on each immigrant arriving at 
                        Castle Garden
                    . It was maintained that this was a violation of constitutional law since, in 1849, in
                    the Passenger Cases the Supreme Court had invalidated such taxes. 
                        New York
                     replied that the tax was a rightful exercise of the state's police power. The
                    income, 
                  
                     37 Jenkinson to Baker, March 17, 1870. "Correspondence of
                            Governor Conrad Baker," Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana. This part of Baker's correspondence is in a folder marked
                            "Immigration" and is in the Archives Division.
               
                     collected in this manner, was needed to care for paupers and
                    physically handicapped, many of whom were foreign-born.38
            
            On the second day of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     convention the committee on resolutions reported what became the official statement of
                    the states' ideas. These resolutions called for additional federal laws to protect the
                    foreigner during ocean passage and after arrival at an eastern port. Existing laws, it was thought,
                    ought to be enforced more vigorously. The president of the 
                        United States
                     should be requested to negotiate with foreign countries to secure joint jurisdiction
                    over conditions on emigrant ships. All monopolies and combinations which deprived the alien of cheap
                    and safe transportation to the interior were condemned. State capitation taxes on immigrants were
                    called "odious and unjust." In order to fulfill federal responsibilities in these
                    matters a bureau of immigration ought to be established.
            Only one member of the resolutions committee, E. R. Mead of 
                        New York
                    , dissented from these proposals and presented a minority report in which he advanced
                    the eastern viewpoint. The correct principle of public policy, he contended, must be an assurance
                    that the immigrant could take care of himself. What was to be feared was the creation of a
                    burdensome pauper class composed of foreign-born peoples. Mead rang the changes of stock arguments
                    against federal action encroaching on state rights. He was worried about the swarm of government
                    officials and the vast expenditures necessary to carry out the plan recommended by the majority.
            
               
                        New York
                    's delegates were so upset by the turn of events that they walked out of the
                    convention just before roll call for voting on the resolutions. The 
                        Massachusetts
                     delegates, also angered, were present but refused to vote. Both states conceded that
                    the immigrant needed protection, yet they believed that the states, not the federal government,
                    should assume responsibility. They were decisively outnumbered, however, and the resolutions were
                    passed by a heavy majority.39
            
            
               
                  38
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, Daily Journal, November 24, 1870. The decision of the
                        Supreme Court in the Passenger Cases may be found in 7 Howard 283. This was a very controversial
                        issue, and the court divided 5-4 with Chief Justice Taney dissenting vigorously.
               
                  39
                        Ibid., November 26, 1870. The 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal published several articles revealing the need for federal action
                        affecting immigration and commending the work of the convention. See 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal numbers for late November, 1870.
            
            
            A permanent committee was appointed to present the recommendations of the convention to Congress. In
                    the next few months a concerted effort was made to effect federal legislation, but the outcome was
                        disappointing.40 Congress did not pass a general law affecting immigration
                    until 1882, and then the intent was to limit the ingress of paupers and mentally deficient
                        persons.41
            
            The significance of the 1870 convention was not in what it accomplished immediately. Instead, it
                    would seem to be in the revelation of midwestern attitudes about immigration. It was, furthermore,
                    an excellent example of the way in which a social and economic issue was closely connected with
                    political action. This was, as a matter of fact, the situation during the whole period of the Civil
                    War years.
            
               
                  40 Immigration folder in "Correspondence of Governor Conrad
                        Baker." On March 7, 1871, the 
                            Minnesota
                         legislature sent Congress a memorial urging federal protection of immigrants. Senate Miscellaneous Documents, 42 Cong., 1 Sess., no. 2 (serial no. 1467),
                        1-2.
               
                  41 Stephenson, History of American Immigration,
                    142-143.
            
         
         
         
            The Red Man's Retreat From Northern Indiana
            
               Leon M. Gordon II*
            Early Indian settlements in the northern part of Indiana were centered along the Wabash
                        River, in the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     area, and east of 
                        Chicago
                    . Potawatomi and Miami predominated and acted as buffers between the Fox, Sauk, and
                    Wine-bago in 
                  Illinois, Wisconsin
               , and 
                        Minnesota
                    , and the Shawnee in 
                        Ohio
                    . Following the defeat of the Prophet and Tecumseh's forces at the mouth of the
                        Tippecanoe River on November 7, 1811, scattered bands from the 
                        Wabash
                     area fled to northern Indiana in large numbers. By 1830 white settlers thus found
                    groups of Potawatomi and Miami scattered over the area in villages of varying size. The necessity of
                    effecting a modus vivendi with the natives, which was never fully solved, but
                    rather eliminated by their ultimate removal, immediately presented itself.
            Even before the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , the Calumet River in 
                        Lake County
                     had been a favorite haunt of Indians, both because of its abundance of fish and
                    navigability for canoes. Available records indicate that as late as the 1830's and
                    1840's the stream was still attractive to them. On August 2, 1833, Charles Butler, heading
                    for 
                        Chicago
                    , ferried the river and recorded in his diary the presence of a Potawatomi encampment
                    along the shore. The Indians had hammocks slung between the trees on the river's west
                        bank.1 An Indian post run by a Frenchman and his Indian squaw stood nearby
                    and consisted of six or eight primitively constructed log cabins which were gray with age.2
            
            As late as 1850, Indians were still at the fork of the Grand Calumet; the squaws worked for white
                    women and received payment in food supplies. Chief Shaubenee, the short thick-set owner of
                    Shaubenee's Grove in 
                        Lake County
                    , resisted the settlers' influence, and unlike his two daughters continued to
                    dress in moccasins, leggings, and a blanket. 
                  * Leon M. Gordon II is a graduate assistant on the staff of the Indiana Magazine of History, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana. This article is a revised chapter of a master's thesis at
                            Indiana University, 1949, written under the direction of John D. Barnhart.
                  
                     1 Charles Butler, "Letter of August 4, 1833," Bessie
                            L. Pierce, As Others See 
                                    Chicago
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1933), 41n.
                  
                     2 Charles F. Hoffman, A Winter in the West (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1835), I, 229.
               
                     Most of the natives in that area left by 1862 when Tolleston was
                        developing.3
            
            There were also other settlements near the Calumet River, as well as on Cedar Creek, north of Cedar
                    Lake, and on Red Oak and Big White Oak islands in the Kankakee River, south of the Calumet. Some
                    three hundred and fifty Indians camped on those islands during the winter of 1837-1838. The
                    following year hunting attractions at Deep River, a tributary of the Calumet,
                    drew Indians from 
                        Michigan City
                    . Hunting parties of fifteen to twenty were seen at Pleasant Grove, on the shore of the
                    former river, in 1840.4
            
            About six hundred natives camped in the woods near West Creek, another tributary of the Calumet, over
                    the winter of 1837-1838, and there was another small settlement south of 
                        Lowell
                    . In 1840, the Indians camped at the site of the latter town appeared rough and
                    disheveled but not hostile to Mrs. John M. Dwyer, an early settler of 
                        Lowell
                    . The Indians left the area prior to the Mexican War. Around present Gary and vicinity,
                    Indians were especially common in the early thirties, but only a few remained scattered about the
                    neighborhood as late as 1869.5
            
            A center of Indian settlement in the middle thirties was also located two miles southwest of present
                    Merrillville, then called Wiggin's Point, which at the time was a division point of the
                    Potawatomi trail. One branch went southwest to 
                        Will County
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , and the other passed through 
                        Benton County
                     to the 
                        Wabash
                    .6
            
            Although the red men were neighbors of the whites for many years, reactions to their presence were
                    generally not hostile. There was an undercurrent of hope, however, that the tribes would soon be
                    removed. Until that day arrived, comments on the Indians' peculiar way of life were common.
                        
                  
                     3 James W. Lester, "Pioneer Stories of the Calumet,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1905-), XVIII (1922), 167-168.
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., 172; T[imothy] H. Ball, 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                , Indiana, 1834-1872 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1873), 67, 70, 73, 77-78.
                  
                     5 Ball, 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                , Indiana, 1834-1872, p. 72; [James W. Lester], Historical
                                Records of the 
                                    Lake County
                                 Old Settlers Association (n.p., 1924), 9; History of 
                                    Lake County
                                
                     , 
                                Lake County
                             Historical Association Publication (Gary, Indiana, 1929), X,
                            82-83.
                  
                     6 Lester, "Pioneer Stories of the Calumet," Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII, 347, 349-350; Elmore Barce and Robert
                            A. Swan, History of 
                                    Benton County
                                , Indiana (3 vols., Fowler, Indiana, 1930), I, 58-59.
               
                     On Robinson's 
                        Prairie
                     near present 
                        Crown Point
                     in 1834, sticks covered with long grass and flag matting composed the natives'
                    tepees, which had small smoke holes at their apex. The fragile nature of their homes on
                        Lake Michigan was due partly to the temporary nature of their camps since
                    they moved as often as a dozen times a year. Lakeside locations were favored in winter and high
                    grassy knolls in summer.7
            
            Indians of the Calumet made a rather uniform impression on the early settlers. Moccasins, broadcloth
                    or buckskin leggings, a kind of kilt, and often a blanket thrown over their shoulders constituted
                    the natives usual apparel. White men considered them lazy and incurable beggars, who exchanged
                    venison, leggings, bead work, cranberries, and skins for bread, flour, tobacco, corn, pork, salt,
                    iron kettles, potatoes, meal, and other products. The squaws wove cloth, made bead work, chopped
                    wood, built the fires, and waited on the braves, while the latter fished and hunted. Indian men
                    evidently excelled in these occupations, for in the thirties some thirty thousand muskrat and
                    several hundred mink skins were taken annually from the Kankakee area, the latter worth about ten
                    dollars apiece. Settlers took an annual toll of about three thousand duck and used several, camps
                    along the shore of the Kankakee River as bases from which hunting forays were
                        made.8
            
            Two other quite diverse practices which provoked comment were the Indians' burial methods
                    and their operation of excellent sugar camps on Door Prairie in 
                        La Porte County
                    . Bodies, often surrounded with food and hunting equipment, were usually interred in a
                    sitting position, but were sometimes laid horizontally in tree branches. The sugar camps were a
                    lesser-known pursuit of the braves, but they were well supplied with the necessary copper and brass
                    kettles. 
                  
                     7 Herbert A. Kellar (ed.), Solon Robinson, Pioneer and
                                Agriculturist (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1936), I, 55. These volumes are XXI-XXII of the Indiana Historical Collections (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916-). T[imo-thy] Ball, 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                , Indiana, 1884 (
                                Crown Point
                            , Indiana, 1884), 179. For a good description of the Indians' winter
                            camps, see Hoffman, A Winter in the West, II, 323, note I.
                  
                     8 Kellar, Solon Robinson, 55; Lester,
                            "Pioneer Stories of the Calumet," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XVIII, 168, 348; Ball, 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                , Indiana, 1884, p. 180-184; Amasa C. Washburn, "Canoeing: on
                            the Kankakee in 1831," Society of Indiana Pioneers Yearbook
                            (n.p., 1921-), (1944), 6, 9,11.
               
                     Every spring the camps were the site of feverish activity but
                    were mostly deserted in winter.9
            
            Solon Robinson, the founder of 
                        Crown Point
                    , was one of many to comment on the Indians' civility except when drunk, and he
                    blamed white men for the unhappy consequences, which included the beating of a boy with the ramrod
                    of a native's gun; fights among themselves in drunken brawls, usually with fatal
                    consequences; terrorization of the inhabitants of an isolated cabin by Indians on their way to a
                    liquor dispensary; and a gradual disintegration of their character.10
            
            In 
                        La Porte County
                    , Indians in the mid-thirties were concentrated on Terre Coupee Prairie and in the
                    vicinity of 
                        La Porte
                    . As in other camps, the women worked while the men followed field and
                    stream. Natives' wigwams there were often lined with furs and fancy blankets, but the
                    deleterious effects of alcohol upset the normal tenor of camp life. Remains of deserted settlements
                    were scattered throughout the county.11
            
            Indians roamed over the face of 
                        Noble County
                     until 1838 and made their usual impression of friendly beggary except when drunk. As in
                    other areas, the natives dressed in gaudy, multi-patched clothes, and squaws carried their babies
                    strapped to boards that hung from their backs.12
            
            Other centers of Indian settlement in northeastern Indiana where life went on much as noted above
                    were around 
                        Columbia City
                     in 
                        Whitley County
                    , and Jamestown and Brockville in 
                        Steuben County
                    . In the Wabash Valley, natives congregated in the vicinity of 
                        Decatur
                    , 
                        Adams County
                    , and Big Creek in 
                        White County
                    . Trading with white settlers and raiding their homes for food were common. Indian and
                        
                  
                     9 Ball, 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                , Indiana, 1831-1872, p. 68; Kellar, Solon Robinson,
                            I, 63. For a good description of the process involved in the Indians' sugar
                            manufacture, see Hoffman, A Winter in the West, II, 227, note J.
                  
                     10 Kellar, Solon Robinson, I, 55; Charles C. Chapman
                            and Company (pub.), History of 
                                    Elkhart County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1881), 662; Inter-State Publishing Company (pub.), History of 
                                    Steuben County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1885), 294; Inter-State Publishing Company (pub.), History of 
                                    DeKalb County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1885), 273-274, 295.
                  
                     11 Timothy E. Howard, History of St, 
                                    Joseph County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1907), I, 299; Thomas H. Cannon, History of 
                                    Lake County
                                 and the Calumet Region (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1927), I, 170.
                  
                     12 Samuel E. Alvord, History of 
                                    Noble County
                                , Indiana (
                                Logansport
                            , Indiana, 1902), 132.
               
                     Crooked creeks in 
                        Cass County
                     were major centers of Indian settlement there.13
            
            Thus, Indians and whites lived together throughout northern Indiana, each making use of what the
                    other had to offer, yet basically wary of the other's activities. During the entire period
                    from 1830 to 1860, expanding settlement, often in advance of legally cleared titles, created
                    increasing friction which did not end till the natives' removal. The redskins'
                    fight to keep their land aroused the sympathy of Harriet Martineau, an English writer and
                    journalist, who wrote in June, 1836, that she pitied the "poor, helpless, squalid
                    Potawatomi," beset by squatters. The traveler approved of one band's refusal to
                    part with their land and expressed the hope that an unpleasant family with whom she breakfasted
                    would be forced to leave and to abandon their improvements.14
            
            Division of interest between the two races was brought most sharply into focus over questions of
                    trade. By an 1819 federal law, the Wea in Indiana were granted an annuity of $3,000; the
                    Potawatomi, $2,500; the 
                        Delaware
                    , $4,000; and the Miami, $15,000, plus specific gifts; this law
                    laid the foundation for a lucrative exchange of goods to the benefit of white traders.15 Frequently, however, the greater trading volume made the Indians worse off than before.
                    Senator Daniel Pratt visited a camp near 
                        Logansport
                     in 1836 after one of the payments, where he saw drunken Indians sprawled in grotesque
                    positions, and a young girl lying dead from a tomahawk gash. James Chute, an eyewitness of the
                    annual payment to the Miami in 1831 on the 
                        Wabash
                     about fifty miles from 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , reported that four hundred were drunk by the next day.16
            
            
               
                  13 Weston A. Goodspeed and Charles Blanchard (eds.), Counties
                            of 
                                Whitley
                             and 
                                Noble
                            , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1882), 191; [Martha C. M. Lynch], Reminiscences of 
                                Adams
                            , 
                                Jay
                            , and 
                                Randolph Counties
                            
                   (n.p., n.d.), 94; P. A. Battey and Company (pub.), Counties
                            of 
                                White
                             and 
                                Pulaski
                            
                   (
                            Chicago
                        , 1883), 197; Jehu Z. Powell, History of 
                                Cass County
                            , Indiana (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1913), I, 591, 314.
               
                  14 Harriet Martineau, Society in America (2 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1837), I, 244.
               
                  15
                        
                     
                                United States
                             Statutes at Large, IV, Ch. 87.
               
                  16 Powell, History of 
                                Cass County
                            
                  , I, 312; James Chute to Absalom Peters, 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , December 12, 1831, American Home Missionary Society Manuscript photostats
                        (hereinafter referred to as A.H.M.S. MSS photostats), Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana.
            
            
            At 
                        Logansport
                     annual payments to the Miami and Potawatomi occupied from two to four weeks each. In
                    1833, a session about two months long took place over negotiations for the rest of the Indian lands.
                    Sellers, collectors, and hopeful contractors for Indian supplies flocked to the place, already
                    crowded by a motley group of idlers, jockeys, gamblers, debauchees, and liquor dispensers, who
                    exhibited "total depravity" and wreaked havoc on the community's
                        morals.17
            
            Traders' income from such payments obviously presented a golden opportunity to men like
                    George W. and William G. Ewing,18 Lathrop M. Taylor,19 and
                    many others. John Tipton, who was appointed as agent for the Potawatomi and Miami in 1823, effected
                    removal of the agency from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to the site of 
                        Logansport
                     in 1828, although both places remained important.20
            
            After the removal, Charles Furman, the first Presbyterian missionary at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in 1830, observed that the town had formerly been a place of Indian trade with a
                    garrison of soldiers stationed there. Although the detachment under Major Josiah H. Vose21 was withdrawn on 
                  
                     17 Martin M. Post to Absalom Peters, 
                                Logansport
                            , December 31, 1833, A.H.M.S. MSS photostats.
                  
                     18 The Ewings came from 
                                Ohio
                             to 
                                Port Wayne
                             in 1822. Although they were best known for their real estate and fur trading
                            operations, they presented large claims against the Indians' annuity payments every
                            year. George lived until 1866; William died in 1854. Wallace A. Brice, History
                                of 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                
                      (
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana, 1868), part 2, pp. 23-28.
                  
                     19 Lathrop M. Taylor, who was born at 
                                Clinton
                            , 
                                New York
                            , in 1805, lived in 
                                Fort Wayne
                             from 1820 to 1826. Active in the fur trade, he participated in the founding of 
                                South Bend
                             with Alexis Coquillard in November, 1830. Taylor served as postmaster of
                                    
                        South Bend, St. Joseph County
                      court clerk and recorder, and colonel of the
                            Seventy-ninth Regiment of the Indiana Militia. A Biographical History of
                                Eminent and Self-Made Men of the State of Indiana (2 vols., 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1880), II, District 13, p. 62. For a study of Taylor, see Bert
                            Anson's articles in the Indiana Magazine of History, XLIV (1948),
                            367-383; XLV (1949), 147-170, 249-264, 369-382.
                  
                     20 John Tipton (1786-1839) moved to Indiana from 
                                Sevier County
                            , 
                                Tennessee
                            , and became a major general in the Indiana Militia after service in the War of
                            1812. He acted as Indian agent at 
                                Fort Wayne
                             and 
                                Logansport
                             from 1823 to 1831 and was a member of the 
                                United States
                             Senate from 1831 to 1839. In 1838, Governor David Wallace appointed him to
                            effect the Potawatomi removal. Nellie A. Robertson and Dorothy Riker (eds.), The John Tipton Papers (3 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1942), passim. These volumes are XXIV-XXVI of the Indiana
                            Historical Collections. Logan Esarey, History of Indiana
                            (2d ed., 2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1918), I, 367-368.
                  
                     21 Vose had been a citizen of 
                        Manchester, New
                            Hampshire
                     , and was promoted to the rank of major in the Twenty-first
                            Infantry Regiment during the War of 1812. From May 31,1817, to April 19,1819, he served as
                            the last commandant at 
                                Port Wayne
                            . Three years after rising to the rank of colonel, he died at 
                                New Orleans
                             on July 15, 1845. Bert J. Griswold, 
                        
                                    Fort Wayne
                                , Gateway to the West (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1927), 77-78. This is volume XV of the Indiana Historical Collections.
               
                     April 19, 1819, 
                        Fort Wayne
                     remained an important trade center.22 Feeling ran high against
                    "villainous" traders who liberally dispensed whisky to confuse the natives and
                    then gave them shoddy articles at high cost. Although the licensed trader did not deal in perfect
                    fairness, there was more cheating outside the agencies. Hugh McCulloch in a fit of bitterness
                    charged that "the vices, cupidity, injustice, and inhumanity of professing
                    Christians" were hastening the extinction of the Indians as a race.23
            
            James Chute, the resident Presbyterian missionary at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , strongly condemned the dispensing of liquor, but even a fatal stabbing failed to halt
                    its flow. Within six months he expressed approval of an act passed at the last session of the
                    legislature which prohibited the supplying of alcohol to Indians under penalty. Although Chute
                    particularly regretted the effect of the Indians' intemperance on the town's
                    inhabitants, his belief that some of the most notorious offenders had renounced the practice was too
                        optimistic.24
            
            At 
                        Logansport
                     where the Potawatomi usually camped on the west side of Eel River
                    or at the site of East 
                        Logansport
                    , the same pattern was repeated while Miami came in smaller numbers to the south side of
                    the 
                        Wabash
                    . Some believed the former went on wilder sprees at the conclusion of their trading. In
                    1830, Martin Post, a resident Presbyterian missionary, properly called the town the headquarters of
                    the federal agency and of the state's Indian trade. Large reservations in the immediate
                    vicinity facilitated trading 
                  
                     22 Charles E. Furman to Peters, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , February 19, 1830, A.H.M.S. MSS photostats; 
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, Centinel, July 19, 1819, quoted in Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 323.
                  
                     23 Hugh McCulloch, Men and Measures of Half a
                            Century (
                                New York
                            , 1888), 101-103. For an even stronger condemnation of the robbing, thieving,
                            murdering rumsellers, see J. B. Finley, Life Among the Indiana
                                    (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1860), 518.
                  
                     24 Chute to Peters, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , December 12, 1831, and June 13, 1832, A.H.M.S. MSS photostats. The law in
                            question was passed on February 3, 1832, and imposed a maximum penalty of ten days in jail
                            and a fifty dollar fine for anyone who "shall sell, give, barter, or exchange, or
                            dispose in any way either directly or indirectly, any spiritous or intoxicating
                            liquors" to Indians. Laws of the State of Indiana, 1831-1832, pp.
                            268-269.
               
                     activity and fostered the accompanying vices. On one occasion
                    Post attributed a missing horse to Indian thievery.25
            
            By June, 1833, Post blamed the high cost of living on the Indians' heavy consumption of
                    flour and bacon, which raised their market price. A year later he wrote that property in 
                        Logansport
                     had been acquired chiefly because of the Indian trade but regretted that its owners
                    were not of a type to encourage preaching of the Gospel. The "deplorable
                    profanation" of Sunday, more or less true in all the 
                        Wabash
                     towns, was partly blamed on Indian traders and adventurers.26
            
            That the total bills would be greater than the annuities was the traders' principal fear.
                    From their point of view such a calamity occurred at the October, 1836, disbursement. Payments were
                    made on a pro rata plan that deprived the Indians of most of their money.27 Similarly, the settling of accounts at the forks of the 
                        Wabash
                     near present 
                        Huntington
                     in September, 1841, presented manifold difficulties. Othniel Clark, one of the
                    commissioners, called the mass of accounts "a terrible job"; the Indians,
                    "a drunken, broken-down, profligate race"; and urged them to get as far from the
                    whites as possible. Individual accounts ran as high as three thousand dollars with charges of eight
                    to twenty-five dollars for dirks and bowie knives and twenty-five dollars for a cloth blanket one
                    and three quarters yards long. Surprisingly, Clark claimed that most of the articles used in the
                    Indian trade were "very fine."28 Two weeks later he again
                    discredited the Indians' character and vowed he wanted 
                  
                     25 Thomas B. Helm (ed.), History of 
                                    Cass County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1886), 259-260; Post to Peters, 
                                Logansport
                            , May 24, 1830, A.H.M.S. MSS photostats.
                  
                     26 Post to Peters, 
                                Logansport
                            , June 26, 1833; January 12, 1835; and July 7,1835, A.H.M.S. MSS photostats.
                  
                     27 Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 325.
                  
                     28 Othniel Looker Clark was born in 1835 at 
                                Clarksville
                            , West 
                                Virginia
                            , and died at 
                                Lafayette
                             in 1866. He came there in 1826 as the town's first physician and later
                            served as a senator and representative. In 1841 he was appointed by Governor Samuel Bigger
                            to settle the accounts of the Wabash Valley Indians at their last
                            meeting before being sent west. Notes of William M. Reser, former vice-president of the 
                                Tippecanoe County
                             Historical Association. Clark to William Reynolds, Forks of the 
                                Wabash
                            , September 11, 1841, MS in English Collection, Indiana Historical Society
                            Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana. Contrast Clark's opinion of the trade articles with
                            McCulloch's view that their inferior quality justified suspicion of something worse
                            than neglect or incompetence by government agencies. McCulloch, Men and
                                Measures, 102.
               
                     nothing more to do with them in any way. At the final settlement
                    the Ewings' claim ran close to two hundred thousand dollars; Cyrus Taber and Allen
                        Hamilton's29 approached one hundred thousand dollars; and others
                    ranged from twenty-five thousand dollars to very small sums.30
            
            A fourth major center of the Indian trade was the treaty grounds near the mouth of the
                        Tippecanoe River, particularly during the distribution of goods at the
                    treaties of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     from October 20 to 27, 1832. Observations of the area at the height of its importance
                    were relatively few. One of the best descriptions was made in the early fifties by David Turpie, who
                    went from the edge of Pretty Prairie along the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     to the 
                        Wabash
                     and overlooked the depressed site from a high bank. Second-growth timber almost covered
                    it, the Indians having cut the original wood for defense purposes. He noted the fertility of the
                    adjacent land and facilities for canoe travel. A system of trails completed the Indians'
                    communications network from the west bank of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     to points along the 
                        Wabash
                    .31
            
            With two such diverse civilizations existing side by side in contiguous settlements, their relations
                    further strained by problems raised in trading activities, not much was needed to upset the delicate
                    balance. The disruptive factor proved to be Black Hawk's War from 1831 to 1832. Indians
                    around the mouth of Rock River in northwestern 
                        Illinois
                     were supposedly secure in their land holdings as a result of treaty provisions which
                    removed them from eastern areas. 
                  
                     29 Cyrus Taber was born in 
                                Tiverton
                            , 
                                Rhode Island
                            , in 1800, and settled in present 
                                Allen County
                             in 1822. Going into the mercantile business with Allen Hamilton and Samuel
                            Hanna, his firm became 
                                Hamilton
                             and Taber in 1838. Through successive partnerships, Taber was able to retire in
                            1848, and devoted himself to the development of 
                                Logansport
                            . A Biographical History of Eminent and Self-Made Men of the State
                                of Indiana, II, District 10, p. 39. Allen Hamilton, who was born in 1798 in 
                                County Tyrone
                            , 
                                Ireland
                            , came to Quebec in 1817. After working in a 
                                Philadelphia
                             iron store, he became deputy registrar of the 
                                Fort Wayne
                             land office. The Indian trade, however, quickly claimed his interest. He served
                            as 
                                Allen County
                             clerk from 1830 to 1837, and in 1840 was named one of the commissioners for the
                            extinguishment of the Miami title in Indiana. From 1841-1844 he was their agent and also
                            served as a member of the 1850 constitutional convention, a member of the state legislature,
                            and president of the 
                                Fort Wayne
                             branch bank. Jacob P. BuvuY, Memorial omd Genealogical Record of Representative
                                Citizens of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1914), 628-631.
                  
                     30 Clark to Reynolds, Forks of the 
                                Wabash
                            , September 25, 1841, MS in English Collection.
                  
                     31 Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 324-325; David
                            Turpie, Sketches of My Own Times (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1903), 169-173.
               
                     The steady advance of squatter settlement, however, had
                    increased tension between the two races since 1829. The Sauk Indians finally withdrew to the west
                    side of the 
                        Mississippi
                     but retained cornfields on the east side. Cultivation of these fields led to minor
                    destruction of both white and Indian property, and finally early in April, 1832, Black Hawk crossed
                    the river with nearly two thousand Sauk and Fox, which included six to eight hundred warriors.32
            
            Previously the chief's threatening actions had caused about five hundred Kickapoo to leave
                    their homes in 
                        Illinois
                     and spend nearly a year hunting, fishing, and trapping on the Iroquois
                    River where it flowed through 
                        Jasper
                     and 
                        Newton counties
                    . Defeat of the 
                        Illinois
                     militia at the skirmish of Stillman's Run on May 14, 1832, spurred the
                    dispatch of regular army troops under General Winfield Scott. Plagued by Asiatic cholera, his troops
                    did not get into action before the end of the war on August 2 at the battle of Bad Axe, southwest of
                    present 
                  Madison, Wisconsin
               , near the 
                        Mississippi
                    .33
            
            Long before the war's successful termination, however, rumors of terrible destruction
                    supposedly following in its wake were spreading terror among northern Indiana citizens. Exaggerated
                    stories were encouraged in part by the false belief that Indiana Potawatomi were included as enemies
                    in the proclamation of hostilities issued by 
                        Illinois
                    ' Governor John Reynolds. 
                        Lafayette
                     was one of the focal points of alarm, and in May, 1832, a Captain Newell of the 
                        Warren County
                     militia led troops over the surrounding area to reassure the people until word was
                    received from 
                        Logansport
                     that all the northern Indiana tribes were quiet.34
            
            Talk of danger quickly spread from 
                        Lafayette
                     to Delphi, facilitated by lack of accurate information partly due to very sparse
                    settlement west of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . Constant reports, including the usual tales of blood, arrived there that Black
                    Hawk's Indians were rapidly advancing toward the frontier west of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     in a retreat from 
                        Illinois
                     soldiers. Settlers in the area deserted their homes and took refuge on the east side of
                    that river and the 
                        Wabash
                    . A horse company 
                  
                     32 Frank H. Stevens, The Black Hawk War (
                                Chicago
                            , 1903), 79-111.
                  
                     33 Louis H. Hamilton and William Darroch, A Standard
                                History of 
                                    Jasper
                                 and 
                                    Benton Counties
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1916), I, 169; Milo M. Quaife, 
                        
                                    Chicago
                                 and the Old Northwest (
                                Chicago
                            , 1913), 323-337.
                  
                     34 Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 327-328.
               
                     under Captain Andrew Wood, organized at 
                        Delphi
                    , rode to the mouth of the Monon River but returned without seeing
                    any Indians.35
            
            Apparently the threat was proved groundless by June, and in July, James Crawford, the Presbyterian
                    missionary, commented that a considerable number had been alarmed. His parishioners on the border of
                    the Grand Prairie returned to their homes when the fright subsided, although the war was not
                        over.36
            
            Near the state's northern border rumors were equally rampant, but the Potawatomi at 
                        Lima
                    , 
                        Lagrange County
                    , for example, appeared more excited against the Sauk and Fox for fear that they would
                    become involved in the war than against the whites. Settlers in northeastern 
                        La Porte County
                     were warned of the danger in May by John Coleman, a courier sent by the Indian agent at 
                        Fort Dearborn
                    . Some headed for Carey Mission just over the 
                        Michigan
                     border by way of Terre Coupee, and others fled east toward 
                        Fort Wayne
                    ; the more resolute built a good blockhouse in which many refugees lived from a few days
                    to several weeks until the excitement subsided.37
            
            Refugees from the west spread the infectious fear to 
                        South Bend
                    ; by then the stories had grown to include killings, driving off of stock, and burning
                    of property. On May 23, 1832, an express rider from 
                        Chicago
                     brought news of killings on Rock River. A rumor that the Indians were going to head for 
                        Canada
                     spread terror because 
                        South Bend
                     would be on their direct route. Plans for a fort were drawn so that all lines of
                    approach could be controlled by the defenders. The walls were to be formed of small logs, sharpened
                    to a point and extended ten feet above the ground with a ditch surrounding the stockade. Actually,
                    the panic subsided before much work was done.38
            
            The wave of alarm continued to spread east and resulted 
                  
                     35 John C. Odell, History of 
                                    Carroll County
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 230; Inter-State Publishing Company, History of 
                                    DeKalb County
                                
                     , 126-130.
                  
                     36 James Crawford to Peters, Delphi, July 10, 1832, A.H.M.S. MSS
                            photostats.
                  
                     37 Ella Lonn, "Ripples of the Black Hawk War in Northern
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XX (1924), 294-296.
                  
                     38 Ibid., 298; Charles C. Chapman and Company (pub.), History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1880), 521; Howard, History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                
                     , 1,146.
               
                     in the dispatch of scouting parties over 
                        Elkhart County
                     and vicinity, while settlers congregated at 
                        Niles
                    , 
                  Michigan, South Bend
               , and 
                        Goshen
                    . In July, 1832, Colonel John Jackson rode over the 
                        Elkhart
                     prairies bearing the wild tale that the Indians were at 
                        Niles
                    , and he urged all able-bodied men to assemble at 
                        Goshen
                    . The motley gathering, carrying a variety of weapons, began to build a fort in 
                        Goshen
                    , and another one named for Captain Henry Beane, on 
                        Elkhart
                        Prairie
                    . Soon after Jackson's solicitation for aid at 
                        Indianapolis
                     late in June, it was ascertained that the closest hostile Indians were at least sixty
                    miles northwest of 
                        Chicago
                    .39
            
            Shortly after the building of Fort Beane and Colonel Jackson's trip, two companions traveled
                    over an Indian trail through practically uninhabited country to Waubee's village, six miles
                    northwest of 
                        Goshen
                    , and to Squabach's village at the site of present Oswego, on the pretext of
                    obtaining seed corn but actually to check on the Indians' activities. After careful
                    scrutiny, the natives cordially welcomed them, and their report allayed the excitement at 
                        Goshen
                    . Disputes over the name of the fort there caused its abandonment.40
            
            Meanwhile, the Indiana militia under Colonel A. W. Russell marched north through 
                        Illinois
                    , around the southern end of Lake Michigan, and through the 
                        St. Joseph
                    's country to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in early June; and a border patrol quartered at Attica remained active until August 10.
                    In addition two companies of regulars were raised from the 
                        Vincennes
                     and 
                        Charlestown
                     regions. When clear thinking prevailed once more, the near cessation of emigration and
                    a corresponding interruption in the region's development were found to be the most serious
                    effects of the war in northern Indiana.41
            
            Such an irreconcilable cleavage of interest between the two races caused most of the settlers to look
                    forward to the ultimate extinguishment of the Indian title in the northern part of the state and to
                    their eventual removal. Fears aroused by Black Hawk increased the settlers' determination
                    that the Indians must be removed. The great potentiality of the whole 
                        Wabash
                     country was apparent to all, and in 1830 some felt that its full possibilities would be
                    revealed 
                  
                     39 Lonn, "Ripples of the Black Hawk War in Northern
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XX, 301-303.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., 304-305.
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., 306-307; Esarey, History of Indiana, I,
                        330-332.
               
                     within the next two or three years when white settlers would
                    obtain those lands still held by Indians.42
            
            The background of the government's policy looking toward the creation of an Indian territory
                    west of the Mississippi River is too complex to be told here,43 but in 1830 the President was given power to set aside districts in government land west of
                    the river for those Indians who might "choose to exchange the lands where they now reside
                    and to remove there." Government assistance for such removal was also promised.44
            
            Provision for extinguishment of the Potawatomi title in Indiana was the next step.45 In pursuance of these two acts measures were taken for the negotiation of three treaties
                    with the Potawatomi in October, 1832, by which they obtained western land for their cessions, but
                    retained nearly one hundred and ten designated reserves in the state. Payment for horses stolen,
                    annuities totaling forty-five thousand dollars, and gifts worth over one hundred seventy thousand
                    dollars were also provided.46 Actually, more than three hundred sixty-five
                    thousand dollars worth of goods were distributed, and at least fifty traders on the treaty grounds
                    scrambled for the Indians' favor.47
            
            Almost simultaneously with the Potawatomi negotiations, overtures were being made to the Miami near 
                        Logansport
                    , which attracted "speculators, gamblers, horse racers, and loungers"
                    from the town. First arrangements with the Miami were not consummated, however, until October 23,
                    1834, by William Marshall at the forks of the 
                        Wabash
                     in a treaty that provided for the usual exchange of land, a 
                  
                     42 Post to Peters, 
                                Logansport
                            , May 24, 1830., A.H.M.S. MSS photostats.
                  
                     43 The most complete treatment of the subject up to the passage of the
                            removal act is found in Annie H. Abel, "The History of Events Resulting in Indian
                            Consolidation West of the 
                                Mississippi
                            ," Annual Report of the American Historical Association
                                for the Year 1906 (2 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1908), I, 233-450. For a brief resume, see Dwight L. Smith (ed.),
                            "The Attempted Potawatomi Emigration of 1839," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, XLV, 51-53.
                  
                     44
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, IV, 411-413.
                  
                     45
                            Ibid., 564.
                  
                     46 Treaties of October 20, 26, and 27, 1832, Charles J. Kappler (ed.),
                                Indian Affairs, Layjs, and Treaties, in Senate
                            Documents, 58 Cong., 2 Sess., no. 139 (2d ed., 2 vols., serial nos. 4623 and 4624), II,
                            353-356, 367-370, 372-375.
                  
                     47 Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 324.
               
                     money payment, compensation for stolen horses, and the setting
                    aside of about twenty reserves.48
            
            Settlers were quick to note the extinguishment of the Potawatomi title, and the observant Solon
                    Robinson expressed hope that the remainder of the Miami reservation might soon come into white
                    possession since it lay in a fertile and central part of the state contiguous to the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal. He was not optimistic about its immediate accomplishment, however,
                    because of their intelligent French half-breed chief, John B. Richardville.49
                    Robinson was likewise anxious to correct the "erroneous impression" held by most
                    people regarding the 1832 Potawatomi purchase. He pictured ten thousand acres of fine prairie within
                    its bounds for every one of swamp, luxuriant grass growing along the Kankakee River, pure spring
                    water, and an absence of decaying timber, which was burned off annually by the Indians.50
            
            Natives from northern Indiana as in other regions were quick to take advantage of the annuities
                    provided in the treaties and were frequently seen going to collect the payments at 
                        Winamac
                     and 
                        Detroit
                    . 
                        Monticello
                     was an important point on the road to the former and Terre Coupee to the latter.51
            
            Although not directly concerned with land in Indiana, a conclave at 
                        Chicago
                     in 1833 authorized the same type of payments and land exchanges as noted in the above
                    treaties. An estimated five thousand people gathered around the "upstart village,"
                    and one native band camped five miles southeast. To some individuals the treaty negotiations meant
                    an opportunity to press spurious claims against the helpless natives for damage actually caused by
                    disease, wild animals, and dishonest white men.52
            
            
               
                  48 "Journal of Ebenezer Mattoon Chamberlain 1832-5," Indiana Magazine of History, XV (1919), 248; Treaty of October 23, 1834,
                        Kappler, Indian Affairs, II, 425-428.
               
                  49 Kellar, Solon Robinson, I, 64. He was correct in
                        believing that there would be a delay. See Treaty of November 6,1838, with the Miami, Kappler,
                            Indian Affairs, II, 519-524.
               
                  50 Kellar, Solon Robinson, I, 54. He was probably too
                        laudatory in his praise.
               
                  51 W. H. Hammelle, A Standard History of 
                                White County
                            , Indiana (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1915), I, 401; Howard, History of 
                                St. Joseph County
                            
                  , I, 148. Hugh V. Compton, an early settler of 
                            St. Joseph County
                        , called them a "queer looking lot," who boiled the remnants of
                        hog butchering for soup.
               
                  52 Charles Latrobe, The Rambler in North America (2
                        vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1835), I, 140; Patrick Shireff, A Tour Through North America
                        (Edinburgh, 1835), 220. The treaty in question was consummated with tile United Nation of 
                            Ottawa
                        , 
                            Chippewa
                        , and 
                            Potawatomi
                         from September 26 to October 1, 1833, by which they ceded five million acres in 
                            Illinois
                         and 
                            Michigan
                        . Kappler, Indian Affairs, II, 402-415.
            
            
            Despite the succession of Indian treaties in the early and mid-thirties, concern over the
                    natives' activity was not completely removed, and memories of Black Hawk's War
                    were freshened after the rising of the Creek in 
                        Georgia
                     early in 1836. In June, Harriet Martineau, noticing an encampment of federal troops
                    near 
                        Chicago
                    , echoed the current fears of many settlers. Supposedly, after general consultations,
                    the Comanches had decided to help the Mexicans in 
                        Texas
                    , and the war belt was being passed among the Winnebago on the west shore of
                        Lake Michigan. The alarm, however, was unfounded and soon subsided.53
            
            Meanwhile, once the Potawatomi cessions of October, 1832, had been obtained, settlers grew
                    increasingly anxious for abolition of the reserves which the treaties had granted. Those in 
                        Marshall County
                    , for example, covered most of its total area. Aubenaubee's village of
                    forty-six sections in the southern part of the county was the largest. Menominee's,
                    southwest of 
                        Plymouth
                    , contained twenty-two sections; Benack had eight; Quashqua, three; and there were
                    numerous smaller ones.54 As a result of increasing pressure, William Marshall
                    was appointed commissioner in 1834 and purchased about half the land involved for fifty cents an
                    acre. To finish the job, Colonel Abel C. Pepper55 negotiated nine treaties with
                    the Potawatomi between March 26 and September 23, 1836, which effected the purchase of one hundred
                    thirty-five sections for $95,360 and provided for removal within two years.56 Impatient settlers moved steadily onto the disputed 
                  
                     53 Martineau, Society in America, I, 258-259.
                  
                     54 Kappler, Indian Affairs, II, 353, 368, 373-374.
                  
                     55 Abel C. Pepper was born in 
                                Kentucky
                             and settled in 
                                Dearborn County
                            , Indiana, in 1815. After service in the War of 1812, he held various county
                            offices, served in the state legislature, and lost the lieutenant-governor's race
                            in 1828. Pepper then rose through the ranks to become superintendent of Indian removal for
                            Indiana, 
                        Illinois, Michigan
                     , and 
                                Wisconsin
                            . He was a federal marshal from 1845 to 1849 and served in the 1850
                            constitutional convention. Pepper died in 1860. William W. Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches of Early Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1883), 407-411.
                  
                     56 Treaties of March 26, 29, April 11, 22, August 5, September 20, 22,
                            and 23, 1836, Kapple, Indian Affairs, II, 450, 457-459, 462-463, 470-472.
                            The treaty of March 26 ceded four sections northeast of 
                                Warsaw
                            , and that of March 29 ceded four sections between the one above and 
                                Warsaw
                            . Thirty-six sections of Aubenaubee's reserve between Lake
                                Maxinkuckee and 
                                Rochester
                             were ceded April 11, and the two treaties of April 22 ceded thirteen sections
                            along the shore of the lake. The treaty of August 5 ceded Menominee's village of
                            twenty-two sections, which caused disputes and bitterness when the two-year time limit
                            expired. The three treaties of September 20, 22, and 23, 1836, ceded ten sections about five
                            miles northeast of 
                                Rochester
                            , four sections immediately south of the above, and thirty-eight sections on
                                Eel River due north of Peru. See Charles C. Royce (comp.), Indian Land Cessions in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (2 parts, 
                                Washington
                            , 1899), part 2, pp. 756-763.
               
                     reserves, and within two years Congress took cognizance of their
                    uncertain status by granting pre-emption rights for a quarter section at one dollar and twenty-five
                    cents an acre for every head of a family or male over twenty-one with four months'
                    residence at the time of the act's passage.57
            
            Representatives of religious orders active among the Indians worked to smooth the natives'
                    relations with white men in addition to teaching them the fundamental tenets of Christianity. Ever
                    since the days of the 
                        St. Joseph
                     Mission at the site of present 
                        Niles
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    , which was conducted by the Jesuits from 1690 to 1761,58 the
                    Potawatomi had embraced Catholicism, simply but faithfully. The story of Isaac McCoy at Carey
                    Mission near 
                        Niles
                    ,59 Abraham Burnett at Menominee's village in the
                        1820's,60 and Fathers Reze and Badin who were active around 
                        Niles
                     and at Notre Dame from 1830 to 1835,61
                    represented an extension of religious activity by other sects as well as a solidifying of
                    Catholicism at Menominee's village by the Jesuits.62
            
            In the spring of 1835, Louis Deseille, a Flemish priest, and Simon Bruté de Remur, first
                    bishop of 
                        Vincennes
                    , visited the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     settlements where the bishop quickly grasped the growing conflict between the
                    government's increasing agitation for removal and the missionaries' activity. That
                    friction prompted an abortive removal attempt by Pepper, for 
                  
                     57
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, V, 251-252; Daniel McDonald, History
                                of 
                                    Marshall County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1908), I, 19.
                  
                     58 George Paré, "The 
                                St. Joseph
                             Mission," 
                        Mississippi Valley
                                Historical Review (
                                Cedar Rapids
                            , 
                                Iowa
                            , 1914-), XVII (1930), 24-54.
                  
                     59 Isaac McCoy, History of Baptist Indian Missions (
                                Washington
                            , 1840), 95-96.
                  
                     60 "Abram B. Burnett, Potawatomi Chief," 
                                Kansas
                             State Historical Society Collections (
                        Topeka, Kansas
                     , 1881-), (1913-1914), 371-373.
                  
                     61
                            The Catholic Encyclopedia (16 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1907-1914), IV (1908), 759; XII (1911), 320; Dictionary of
                                American Biography (21 vols., New'York, 1943), I, 488-489.
                  
                     62 Irving McKee, "The Trail of Death," Indiana
                            Historical Society Publications (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1895-), XIV (1944), 11-14.
               
                     example, in 1833 from 
                        Logansport
                    , but only about seventy natives reached the 
                        Mississippi
                    .63
            
            A working agreement was made between Deseille and Pepper relative to the 
                        Marshall County
                     reserves, but Commissary General George Gibson, whose department would have
                    responsibility for an emigration, was too encouraging in his reassurances to the priest. Although
                    the latter's continuing activity at the Yellow River reserve irritated
                    Pepper, signing of the nine treaties referred to above was a definite victory for the removal
                        policy.64
            
            Despite valiant efforts to serve the red man and pacify the whites, Deseille, who had stayed among
                    the 
                        Marshall County
                     Indians, was ordered on May 16, 1837, to depart as an alien or to prove himself a
                    citizen. Although he remained in the neighborhood, the priest had to be replaced. Thus, Benjamin
                    Marie Petit came to Menominee's reserve for a three-week visit in October and November,
                    1837, but did not secure a permanent residence there till the spring of 1838.65
            
            At the time of Petit's first visit, the village on the north bank of Twin Lakes contained
                    seventy-five to one hundred log huts and wigwams of poles covered with bark and matting, which were
                    grouped irregularly around their hewn-log chapel. The church, surmounted by a white flag in the
                    rear, was about twenty by forty feet in size and filled with crude benches. A ladder furnished
                    access to the missionary's room over the chapel which contained a rope hammock, chair, and
                    table. The nearby graveyard was filled with some bodies buried underground, some sitting upright
                    protected by pole fences, and others placed in covered hollowed logs.66 Petit
                    approvingly observed the following routine. After a sunrise bell, the Indians assembled, heard a
                    digest of the previous day's sermon and mass, and sang hymns after morning 
                  
                     63
                            Ibid., 15-18.
                  
                     64
                            Ibid., 18-23.
                  
                     65 Petit was born at 
                                Rennes
                            , 
                                France
                            , in 1811, and graduated from the University of 
                                Rennes
                             in 1829. Three years later he concluded his legal studies, but after three
                            years of practice, Petit entered the Seminary of St. Sulpice in 
                                Paris
                            . After his arrival in America on July 21, 1836, Petit worked through the orders
                            to the priesthood soon after September 23, 1837. After winning his battle to accompany the
                            Potawatomi to their new home in 
                                Kansas
                             on the Osage River, the priest died in 
                                St. Louis
                             on February 10, 1839. Ibid., 26-28, 114-116, 24-26.
                  
                     66 McDonald, History of 
                                    Marshall County
                                
                     , I, 30, 32, 19; Howard, History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                
                     , I, 52.
               
                     prayers. The sermons were translated by a
                    seventy-two–year-old French lady. Petit then heard the Indians' confessions till
                    sunset and evening prayers, an exhortation, catechism, and benediction followed.67
            
            Such religious activity, however, could not still the Indians' clamor against
                    Pepper's treaty of August 5, 1836. Claims were vehemently put forth that it was invalid
                    because of the means employed in the negotiations and because the list of the signers lacked
                    Menominee's name. The priest considered it "as illegal as possible" and
                    recorded the Indians' preparations to protest personally at 
                        Washington
                    .68 Having promised Menominee a memorial explaining his
                    tribe's grievance to the President, Petit celebrated Christmas, 1837, with nothing further
                    accomplished and expressed doubt that the Indians would obtain the necessary money for the 
                        Washington
                     mission.69
            
            After lending two hundred dollars to the chiefs en route to the capital, Petit continued his round of
                    religious activity until April 4, 1838, when he obtained a permanent residence at the Twin Lakes
                    settlement, with an unfastened plank floor, a huge fireplace, and a mat for a bed. His pleasure was
                    dimmed, however, by the doubtful chance for success of the 
                        Washington
                     appeal.70 Petit's last hope was that the courts would
                    negate the removal plans. Meanwhile, by the end of June, William Polke71 had
                    assembled four hundred to five hundred Potawatomi near 
                        Plymouth
                     preparatory for emigration, and he and the priest held an extended conversation
                    relative to Petit's objections to the removal. By July 26, 1838, it was apparent that the
                    Indians' 
                        Washington
                     mission had collapsed; the possibility of federal action was eliminated; and the priest
                    held serious doubts as to his own future with the tribe. Succeeding letters to Tipton and 
                  
                     67 McDonald, History of 
                                    Marshall County
                                
                     , I, 19, 32; McKee, "The Trail of Death," Indiana
                            Historical Society Publications, XIV, 83.
                  
                     68 McKee, "The Trail of Death," Indiana Historical
                            Society Publications, XIV, 51-52.
                  
                     69
                            Ibid., 43.
                  
                     70
                            Ibid., 55, 65-66.
                  
                     71 William Polke of 
                                Knox County
                             was Isaac McCoy's brother-in–law. After serving as a member
                            of the 1816 constitutional convention and as a state senator, he worked for Carey Mission.
                            Polke later became commissioner for the Michigan Road and registrar of the 
                                Fort Wayne
                             land office. He died in 1843. Robertson and Riker, The John Tipton
                                Papers, I, 468n.
               
                     Pepper were optimistic for better relations which never
                        materialized.72
            
            The last service in the chapel was held on August 4; the church ornaments were removed; and at the
                    last assembly, prayers were offered for success in the new hunting grounds. Sincere emotion
                    threatened to halt the ritual. Amid increasing tension, the whites demanded possession on August 5,
                    the deadline under the treaty terms. The Indians refused, however, and between the fifteenth and
                    twentieth chopped in a settler's cabin door. In retaliation white raiders destroyed ten or
                    twelve Indian homes. When he heard the news of these disturbances, Governor David Wallace authorized
                    Tipton to enroll a hundred volunteers.73
            
            Having sent militia squads to northern Indiana to gather scattered natives there, Tipton assembled
                    them in the chapel and explained the treaty provision requiring removal within two years. It was
                    useless for the natives to argue that irregularities in negotiation voided the requirement, and
                    Menominee and two or three other chiefs who refused to go peaceably were confined in the chapel
                    under guard.74
            
            Petit sorrowfully heard the news at 
                        Bertrand
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    , where he was recuperating from illness, but his fear that he could not accompany the
                    Indians was dispelled by September 8. On September 1, seven hundred and fourteen natives were
                    enrolled for the journey, and the following day was spent in loading half of the twenty-six wagons
                    with baggage. Forty-seven more Indians were added to the total before the exiles started their
                        journey.75
            
            After Tipton assured himself that the village's improvements would be "protected
                    from waste and destruction," the caravan began to move at 9:30 A.M., September 4, leaving
                    some behind because of illness. Eyewitnesses in the main felt 
                  
                     72 McKee, ‘The Trail of Death,"
                            Indiana Historical Society Publications, XIV, 76-77.
                  
                     73
                            Ibid., 128, 90; Howard, History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                
                     , I, 52, 54; Robertson and Riker, The John Tipton
                            Papers, III, 675. After an exchange of letters with Wallace, Tipton wrote on August 28
                            that his arrangements were made, and he was depending on the counties of 
                                La Porte
                             for fifteen men, 
                                St. Joseph
                             for five, Miami for fifteen, Pulton for five, Marshall for ten, Cass for
                            thirty-five, and on Colonel James R. M. Bryant for fifteen. Ibid., 680.
                  
                     74 Robertson and Riker, The John Tipton Papers, III,
                            682, 660-662; Daniel McDonald, Removal of the Potawatomi Indians from Northern
                                Indiana (
                                Plymouth
                            , Indiana, 1899), 44-46.
                  
                     75 McKee, "The Trail of Death.," Indiana. Historical
                            Society Publications, XIV, 128, 90; "Journal of an Emigrating Party of
                            Pottawattomie Indians," Indiana Magazine of History, XXI (1925),
                            316-317; Robertson and Riker, The John Tipton Papers, III, 686-690.
               
                     sympathetic toward those who formed the "sad
                    sight." The Indians were disarmed, and a soldier placed over every group of thirty or
                    forty. Available government wagons apparently frightened the natives, and most of them preferred to
                        walk.76
            
            With an insufficient water supply the procession, which included two hundred and eighty-six horses
                    and twenty-six wagons, traveled to Chippewa Port, twenty-one miles from the Twin Lakes encampment,
                    on September 7. Two days later, Petit arrived at 
                        South Bend
                     with Brute, and on the same day physicians discovered three hundred cases of illness
                    among the immigrants. As the main party proceeded along the north bank of the 
                        Wabash
                     past Winamac's old village and Delphi, it made an imposing sight to James H.
                    Stewart, an old settler of Delphi; the Indians were strung out for three miles beside the river.
                    Polke's optimism, however, in looking forward to the "pleasantest and happiest of
                    the emigrations west" seemed hardly justified.77
            
            On September 12 the wandering band forded the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     to the battleground encampment, where cloth, blankets, and shirts worth
                    $5,469.81 were distributed to the Indians. The heat and excessive dust became worse, and
                    a Dr. Ritchie found one hundred and six natives ill on the thirteenth, which meant the wagons were
                    crowded with sufferers. Oppressive drouth was drying up streams in the vicinity of Williams-port,
                    but by irregular advances the caravan reached 
                  Danville, Illinois
               , on
                    September 17, where in fulfillment of previous arrangements, Polke assumed leadership of the
                    remainder of the emigration.78
            
            
               
                  76 Robertson and Riker, The John Tipton Papers, III,
                        689, 693; "Journal of an Emigrating Party of Pottawattomie Indians," Indiana Magazine of History, XXI, 317; McDonald, Removal of the
                            Potawatomi Indians from Northern Indiana, 44, 46.
               
                  77 "Journal of an Emigrating Party of Pottawattomie
                        Indians," Indiana Magazine of History, XXI, 317. Tipton said
                        fifty-three were left at Chippewa. Robertson and Riker, The John Tipton
                        Papers, III, 692-693, 699, 702; McKee, "The Trail of Death," Indiana
                        Historical Society Publications, XIV, 92-93. Since leaving the Chippewa camp,
                        Tipton had taken chargé of the front of the procession, while Polke oversaw affairs
                        in the rear. See also James H. Stewart, Recollections of the Early Settlement of 
                                Carroll County
                            , Indiana (
                     Cincinnati,
                                Ohio
                  , 1872), 97-98.
               
                  78 "Journal of an Emigrating Party of Pottawattomie
                        Indians," Indiana Magazine of History, XXI, 319-320; Robertson and
                        Riker, The John Tipton Papers, III, 702-703, 704, 709. The muster roll at this
                        stage of the emigration numbered 859. For further information on the journey to Independence, 
                            Missouri
                        , see Dwight L. Smith (ed.), "A Continuation of the Journal of an
                        Emigrating Party of Potawatomie Indians, 1838, and Ten William Polke Manuscripts," Indiana Magazine of History, XLIV, 393-408.
            
            
            Before concluding the story of the major Indian removal from northern Indiana, attention should be
                    called to the almost directly opposite pictures of the emigration one gets from Petit's
                    letters and from accounts of other white men connected with the party. A flood of sympathy pervaded
                    the former, full of references to "my poor Christians, under the burning noon-day
                    sun," crammed into baggage wagons with "sick and dying people on all
                        sides."79 On the other hand, one of the teamsters remembering the
                    trek after a mellowing interval of thirty years, considered the Indians well treated, not suffering
                    from lack of food or water. The journal attributed to Polke, while mentioning the heat, dust, and
                    not too adequate provisions, merely mentions ten deaths, mostly those of children, which occurred
                    before the 
                        Illinois
                     line was reached. The truth probably lies in the middle ground, closer to
                    Petit's view than Polke's. At any rate, the priest's version has gained
                    ascendancy in the popular mind and resulted in characterization of the trek as "the trail
                    of death."80
            
            While it is not the purpose of this article to tell the story of subsequent removals in detail,
                    cognizance should be taken of the projected Potawatomi emigration of 1839, the pertinent documents
                    for which have only recently been unearthed.81
            
            Reference has been made above to the treaty with the Miami of October 23, 1834, which was not
                    ratified until November 10, 1837. Another treaty was negotiated on November 6, 1838, which involved
                    cession of one hundred seventy-seven thousand acres south of the 
                        Wabash
                     for $325,680; payments to chiefs Richardville and Godfroy; forty-seven
                    specific grants of land; and provision for removal west of the 
                        Mississippi
                     "when the said tribe may be disposed to emigrate from their present
                        country."82 The tribe's uncertain status was clarified by
                    cession of the so-called "residue of the big reserve," which amounted to five
                    hundred eleven thousand acres, for five hundred fifty thousand dollars 
                  
                     79 McKee, "The Trail of Death," Indiana Historical
                            Society Publications, XIV, 98-99, passim.
                  
                  
                     80 McDonald, Removal of the Potawatomi Indians from
                                Northern Indiana, 47; "Journal of an Emigrating Party of Pottawattomie
                            Indians," Indiana Magazine of History, XXI, 315-336, passim.
                  
                     81 Smith, "The Attempted Potawatomi Emigration of
                            1839," Indiana Magazine of History, XLV, 51-80.
                  
                     82 Kappler, Indian Affairs, II, 519-524.
               
                     on November 28, 1840. The treaty stipulated that the Indians
                    "shall remove to the country assigned to them west of the 
                        Mississippi
                     within five years from this date." Despite increasingly depraved living
                    conditions, the Miami secured a time extension on their removal from November, 1845, to August,
                    1846. An infantry company from 
                        Newport
                     barracks near 
                        Cincinnati
                     under Captain William R. Juett finally succeeded in getting over three hundred Indians
                    loaded on five canalboats at 
                        Peru
                     near the end of August.83
            
            Taken to 
                        Cincinnati
                     by way of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal, the natives were put on the "
                        Colorado
                    " bound for 
                        St. Louis
                    . From there they were taken to the mouth of the Kansas River,
                    where their personal belongings and ponies had been brought overland. The tribe's
                    subsequent history in 
                        Kansas
                     was one of unrestrained whisky consumption and decimation of numbers until by 1854
                    their agent claimed that only two hundred and seventy-five remained.84
            
            In 1847 another group, mostly stragglers and deserters from the emigration of the previous year, were
                    gathered from around 
                        Columbia City
                    , 
                  Huntington, South Bend, Manchester
               , 
                        Peru
                    , and 
                        Winamac
                    . Starting eleven miles north of Peru, the caravan passed through 
                        Winamac
                     and 
                  Ottawa, Illinois
               , on its way to join the other 
                        Kansas
                     exiles.85 Such was the course of the principal Indian removals from
                    northern Indiana. Their execution was not a credit to the settlers, but the conclusion was
                    inevitable. Whenever white men came into contact with Indian settlements, exploitation of the
                    natives followed; a process which continued until the Indians' presence became a hindrance
                    and danger to extension of white settlement. At that point pressure for removal treaties became the
                    strongest. Only when the Indians had withdrawn could the full exploitation of areas previously
                    controlled by them be effected. This pattern of relations between the two races is clear in northern
                    Indiana, and there was never serious doubt which of the two groups would emerge victorious.
            
               
                  83
                        Ibid., 531-534; Grant Foreman, The Last Trek of the Indians (
                            Chicago
                        , 1946), 127-128; McDonald, Removal of the Potawatomi Indians from
                            Northern Indiana, 48.
               
                  84 Foreman, The Last Trek of the Indians, 129-131. For a
                        good treatment of the Miami in the Northwest to the Battle of 
                            Tippecanoe
                        , see Elmore Barce, The Land of the Miamis (Fowler, Indiana,
                        1922).
               
                  85 McDonald, Removal of the Potawatomi Indians from Northern
                            Indiana, 48.
            
         
         
         
            Conscientious Objectors in Indiana During World War II
            
               Charles B. Hirsch*
            The approach of World War II towards American shores found the 
                        United States
                     suddenly turning its plowshares into swords and its scythes into spears. This
                    transformation of peace implements into war implements found the latter progressing from swords and
                    spears to rifles, cannon, tanks, and planes. Everyone was expected to do his part in the war effort
                    or be considered a slacker. Yet, the government of the 
                        United States
                     recognized the fact that there would be some, who, because of conscientious
                    convictions, would not be able to take part in this war effort. It sought ways and means of best
                    utilizing the work of these persons for the nation.
            The problem of the conscientious objector was not a new one to the government. The right of the
                    individual to follow the dictates of his conscience had been an established tradition in the 
                        United States
                     and as such was treated with respect for its historic past. Since the Revolutionary
                    War, the conscientious objector had become a recognized factor in this nation. This recognition of
                    the individual's conscience, which may be an inherent right, is really made possible by an
                    act of Congress. The Constitution contains no provision, either expressed or implied, which grants
                    to an individual because of his personal convictions the right to exemption from military service.
                    Such provisions may be found in some state constitutions but not in the constitution of the national
                        government.1 The ideas of alternate service and a distinct noncombatant
                    status in the armed forces were two 
                  * Charles B. Hirsch, a veteran of World War II, is a graduate student in
                            history at Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana. This article is a revised chapter of a master's thesis at
                            Indiana Universit.y 1949, written under the direction of Lynn W. Turner.
                  
                     1 Edward A. Fitzpatrick, Universal Military Training (
                                New York
                            , 1945), 293. Article 12, Section 6 of the Indiana constitution states,
                            "no person, conscientiously opposed to bearing arms, shall be compelled to do
                            militia duty; but such person shall pay an equivalent for exemption; the amount to be
                            prescribed by law." Charles Kettleborough, Constitution MaMng in
                                Indiana (3 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916, 1930), I, 360. These volumes are I, II, and XVII of the Indiana
                            Historical Collections (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916-).
               
                     of this nation's outstanding improvements in the last
                        war.2
            
            Only two nations, Great Britain and the 
                        United States
                    , had recognized the right of the individual in his attitude toward participation in
                    war. They had affirmed the rights of conscientious objectors by specifically granting them certain
                    privileges in regard to conscription.3 The absolute objector, who because of his
                    convictions felt that he could in no way co-operate with his government, was recognized in 
                        England
                     by the granting of complete exemption from military service. The 
                        United States
                    , however, while not being as liberal towards absolute objectors as 
                        England
                    , did show a more liberal treatment of its conscientious objectors than it had in World
                    War I. Yet, in spite of this great liberality, there were still more than five thousand
                    conscientious objectors in prison during the last war. Some were imprisoned because of their
                    opposition to registering under the Selective Service Act, others because they objected on religious
                    grounds and the failure of local selective service boards to recognize their claims, a third group
                    because they had entered into some form of military or civilian service, but later discovered that
                    they could not conscientiously continue in that type of service, a fourth group because of their
                    opposition to certain types of wars which included the one in progress, and finally there were those
                    who claimed objection because of socialistic or communistic ideas.4 The larger
                    number of conscientious objectors in World War II in comparison to the smaller number in the
                    previous war was due to peacetime conscription, the longer duration of the war, and the increase in
                    population.
            About three-fourths of the objectors were sent to federal prisons and the remaining fourth to county
                    jails. Those imprisoned 
                  
                     2 William H. Chamberlin, "American C.O.'s,"
                                Survey Graphic (
                                New York
                            , 1921-), XXXII (1943), 436. It should be noted that despite the large American
                            population, the number of conscientious objectors in the 
                                United States
                             was smaller than in Great Britain. This difference was due to the fact that not
                            all conscientious objectors in the 
                                United States
                             were listed as IV-E's. Many draft boards, in an attempt to keep their
                            number of conscientious objectors down to a minimum, had followed a policy of exempting
                            these men for any other possible reason. Leo P. Crespi, "Attitudes Toward
                            Conscientious Objectors and Some of Their Psychological Correlates," The Journal of Psychology (
                                Provincetown
                            , 
                                Massachusetts
                            , 1935-), XVIII (1944), 81.
                  
                     3 Peace Commission of Friends World Committee for Consultation, Peace Study Outline, Problems of Applied Pacifism (
                                Philadelphia
                            , n.d.), 23.
                  
                     4 Mulford Sibley and Ada Wardlaw, Conscientious Objectors
                                in Prison, 1940-1945 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1945), preface, 3, 4.
               
                     in county jails probably endured more hardships than those in
                    federal prisons, although the jails were to have been approved for the housing of federal prisoners.
                    A conscientious objector who was held in custody in Bum's Row of the 
                        Marion County
                     Jail in 
                        Indianapolis
                     wrote a description of the conditions which met the new inmate. He stated that no
                    toilet paper, sheet, towel, toothbrush, or pillow could be found. The straw tick and blanket were
                    very filthy. There was a scarcity of good food and very few fresh vegetables or fruits were
                        served.5 In some cases, those opposed to war were segregated and given
                    preferential treatment, but generally they were treated in the same manner as the other prisoners.
                    Their prison sentences ranged from one to five years, with the average around three years.
            The Jehovah's Witnesses, the group which had the largest number of conscientious objectors
                    in prison during World War II, claimed it was impossible for them because of their religious beliefs
                    to render any service which would interfere with their supreme task of preaching the message of the
                    coming Armageddon.6 Regardless of whether they were farmers, mechanics, or
                    factory workers, they considered themselves as ministers. When they appeared before their local
                    selective service boards, they requested to be classified as Class IV-D,7 which
                    would have exempted them from any type of military service. Many local boards, however, did not
                    regard their claims for exemption worthy of consideration. It was with respect to the demands of the
                    Jehovah's Witnesses that the selective service officials in Indiana stated that the most
                    troublesome phase of the whole drafting program was not the conscientious objector, but rather those
                    who claimed exemption or deferment on a ministerial basis, without being able to produce
                    satisfactory evidence to support 
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., 29. For an interesting narrative dealing with the treatment of a
                            conscientious objector in federal prisons during World War I, read Philip Grosser, Uncle Sam's Devil's Island (
                                Boston
                            , n.d.).
                  
                     6 Sibley and Wardlaw, Conscientious Objectors in
                            Prison, 13,14. See also National Service Board of Religious Objectors, The
                                Reporter (
                                Washington
                            , 1942-?), May 15, 1944.
                  
                     7 The following selective service classifications were used in this
                            article: I-A, persons available for military service and training; I-A–O, persons
                            available for noncombatant service; IV-D, ministers and divinity students; IV-E,
                            conscientious objectors opposed to both combatant and noncombatant service; IV-F,
                            physically, mentally, or morally unfit. For a complete definition of these classifications,
                            see Selective Service Regulations, February 1, 1912 to February 1, 1943
                            (2d ed., 
                                Washington
                            , 1944), 267.
               
                     their ministerial claims.8 The end result
                    was that if a Jehovah's Witness would accept nothing but a IV-D classification, the only
                    alternative was prison.
            The case of the Jehovah's Witness is a good example of a conscientious objector whose
                    religious claims for exemption did not necessarily classify him as a pacifist. His excuse for
                    violating the law was not opposition to war but rather resistance to any restriction or interference
                    with his witnessing or preaching. As far as he was concerned, there was but one objective and that
                    was to continue his witnessing. In his opinion not even a war should be permitted to interfere with
                    his religious work.9
            
            The Friends and the Methodists had the next largest number of church constituents in prison. Among
                    the Methodists and Friends, there were many who listened to their individual consciences. This
                    resulted in a refusal on their part to accept alternate service in the civilian public service camps
                    which had been approved by their denominations. Prison terms for these men, therefore, were usually
                    inevitable. Generally, the conscientious objectors of the Mennonite and Brethren churches accepted
                    the idea of alternate service. Hence, there were fewer members of these peace churches in prison.10
            
            Another type of conscientious objector belonged to religious bodies whose formal tenets included
                    opposition to the bearing of arms.11 Members of this group were willing to enter
                    the armed services, wear the uniform, and do their part in a military organization up to the point
                    of training in arms. They preferred to be classified as noncombatants rather than conscientious
                    objectors, for they considered war as something which they could not prevent, and while believing it
                    was wrong to kill and take part in combat, they could as noncombatant soldiers help to alleviate
                    human suffering. 
                  
                     8 F. Lyle Summers, Selective Service in Indiana, 1940-1947 (A
                            typewritten report, Fort Harrison, Indiana, 1947), 117. The selective service system in
                            trying to aid the local boards in this matter issued an opinion as to just how the
                            ministerial status of the Jehovah's Witnesses was to be determined. Selective Service System, National Headquarters Opinions, II, No. 14.
                  
                     9 Sibley and Wardlaw, Conscientious Objectors in
                            Prison, 24, 25.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., 13, 14. The term "historic peace churches"
                            referred to the Mennonites, the Church of the Brethren, and the Friends.
                  
                     11 William A. Brown, Church and State in Contemporary
                                America (
                                New York
                            , 1936), 275n.
               
                     The Seventh-day Adventists are typical of this group.
            Still another type or group not only objected to bearing arms but refused any kind of service that
                    was connected with the war effort. They were represented by the historic peace churches whose
                    members for the most part followed the dictates of their conscience and accepted alternate service,
                    which was to be found in the civilian public service camps. Others actually joined the armed forces
                    or took an absolute stand in their conviction. This group included men whose religions justified the
                    stand of the conscientious objector, but whose church tents did not make such a stand obligatory for
                    their members. The majority of the religious bodies fell in this category. Still another subdivision
                    of this type included those individuals who professed conscientious objection regardless of the fact
                    that their own churches were indifferent toward individual convictions. Some religious organizations
                    which took this attitude of indifference were the Protestant Episcopal church and the Church of
                    Christ, Scientist.
            A final type of conscientious objector, although quite in the minority, included those who based
                    their claims for exemption on political grounds or on humanitarian factors. In this group were
                    communists, socialists, and those opposed to certain types of wars based on a defensive or offensive
                    nature.
            There was no definite type of conscientious objector. They were like any other American group. Some
                    were from the social register and others from factories and farms. They came in all sizes, shapes,
                    colors, and convictions. As a group they were generally under one classification, yet individually
                    their ideas and beliefs not only caused them– to form many smaller factions but often put
                    them in opposition to each other. This diversity among conscientious objectors is not unlike the
                    multiformity of ways used by many in their attempts to reach the Divine Being.12
                    Consequently, the government through the selective service system did not recognize all these
                    various types of conscientious objectors as separate groups. It recognized only those who could base
                        
                  
                     12 Daniel A. Poling in A Preacher Looks at War (
                                New York
                            , 1943), 5, 6, discusses how the various classifications might have been
                            eliminated. D. Elton Trueblood, "The 
                                Quaker
                             Way," Atlantic Monthly (
                                Boston
                            , 1857-), CLXVI (1940), 740.
               
                     their claims on religious grounds, thus setting a standard for
                    government recognition of conscientious objectors.
            A few denominations due to the varied interpretations and connotations of the words
                    "pacifist" and "conscientious objector" tried to avoid the use
                    of them in connection with their own beliefs. Some Friends were unwilling to use the label
                    "pacifist" because it lacked a definite meaning. They were much more satisfied
                    with the simple term "Friend," which at least had a fairly definite connotation,
                    as well as a long history to back it up.13 Among the Mennonites,
                    "non-resistance" was a popular term. They viewed pacifism as a modern philosophy
                    of social and political action. The doctrine of "non-resistance," however, had
                    been followed since the sixteenth century. While both terms are derived from the Bible, the
                    difference or distinction lies in the fact that not everything in the modern pacifist movement is
                    based on Biblical non-resistance.14 Thus, it can be seen that no one terminology
                    applies to all objectors to war.15
            
            Postwar periods in general tend to curtail or decrease church growth, but the effect of World War I
                    on pacifist sentiment was just the opposite.16 This growth of pacifist sentiment
                    can easily be visualized when one compares the number of church groups represented among the
                    conscientious objectors of World War I with those church groups represented in the civilian public
                    service camps in World War II. There were approximately twenty sects and churches represented in
                    1918, in spite of the fact that the period before the first World War had been full of peace
                    movements and pacifist demonstrations. During World War II, however, there were over one hundred and
                    twenty sects or religious groups reported by men in the civilian public service program.
            
               
                  13 Trueblood, "The 
                            Quaker
                         Way," The Atlantic Monthly, CLXVI, 744.
               
                  14 Matthew 5:9, 39. The English word pacifist is derived from the Latin
                        Bible in which the word for peacemaker is jtacifici. Guy F. Hershberger,
                        "Biblical Non-resistance and Modern Pacifism," The Men-nonite
                            Quarterly Review (
                            Goshen
                        , Indiana, 1927-), XVII (1943), 115-116.
               
                  15 The term "conscientious objector" henceforth will
                        refer to all those who were conscientiously opposed to war because of their religious
                        convictions. Any other meanings or connotations will be specifically mentioned.
               
                  16 For a graphic picture of this, see "What War does to Church
                        Growth," Time (
                            Chicago
                        , 1923-), XXXIX (January 26, 1942), 38.
            
            
            This might indicate an increase in sectarianism rather than pacifism, yet the fact must not be
                    overlooked that among the denominations which had more than one hundred men in the civilian public
                    service camps were Methodists, Presbyterians, Northern Baptists, Lutherans, and Roman Catholics, who
                    were hardly represented in World War I. The significant thing about this comparison is the increase
                    in the number of conscientious objectors not only in church bodies that practiced the same beliefs
                    toward war in the first World War but also in denominations, especially the larger ones, who had few
                    or hardly any objectors in 1917.17
            
            When the breath of Mars was beginning to be felt in the 
                        United States
                    , preparations were made for the inevitable clash. Despite the orations of leading
                    isolationists a majority in Congress passed the first peacetime conscription act in September, 1940.
                    The new conscription act provided a clause for those who were conscientiously opposed to combatant
                    training. Section 5 (g) of the Selective Service Act stated that any person, who "by reason
                    of religious training and belief" was conscientiously opposed to participation in war,
                    could claim exemption from combatant training and service. If the claimant should refuse to take
                    part in "non-combatant service as defined by the President," he was to be
                    "assigned to work of national importance under civilian direction."18 The two alternatives offered to the conscientious objector were known as Class
                    I-A–0 which recognized those who were willing to render noncombatant service, and Class
                    IV-E, which applied to those who were opposed to both combatant and noncombatant service. These two
                    classes, however, included only those who were supposed to be mentally and physically fit for
                    service. Others, who might have claimed either Class I-A–0 or Class IV-E, but who were
                    not mentally or physically up to par, were placed in Class IV-E, where their identity as
                    conscientious objectors was lost.19
            
            The local selective service boards were often in a quandry in their attempts to determine a general
                    basis for exemption on the above grounds. The selective service system in its early history had many
                    regulations in reference to the conscientious 
                  
                     17
                            An Introduction to Friends Civilian Public Service (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1945), 6, and appendix 3.
                  
                     18
                            Selective Service Regulations, September 23, 1940 to February 1, 1942 (
                                Washington
                            , 1944), 23.
                  
                     19 See footnote 7.
               
                     objector but nothing concrete enough to be of help to the lower
                    units. Many local boards set up their own standards for religious training and belief which varied.
                    A few discounted all claims of religious objection to war, while others accepted church membership.
                    The result of these conflicting ideas and views was an increase in the number of cases that had to
                    be appealed.20 F. Lyle Summers, Director of Selective Service in Indiana, stated
                    that in many instances these cases were troublesome to the local boards. Some board members found it
                    difficult to maintain a tolerant attitude toward granting exemption on religious grounds. While the
                    selective service system in Indiana insisted that there was no indication that each and every
                    conscientious objector did not receive his every right, the opinions of some of the latter from
                    Indiana were in conflict with this statement.21
            
            The men who were placed in Class IV-E were treated by the selective service system in the same way as
                    were those in Class I-A.22 In peacetime when the liability for servicemen in
                    Class I-A who were twenty-eight years of age or older was suspended, it also applied to those who
                    were in the same category in Class IV-E. The ruling which permitted the discharge of men from the
                    army who were forty-five years old or over in like manner affected those who were classified as
                    IV-E. When the limited service classification was withdrawn in 1942, the order included all classes
                    which had limited service groups. Class IV-E was one of these.23
            
            Conflicting interpretations of the Selective Service Act by leading officials did little to help
                    local boards in forming a basis for conscientious objections. Clarence A. Dykstra, the national
                    director of selective service, pointed out in December, 1940, that the Act provided exemption for
                    those who were conscientiously opposed to war. Membership in a religious sect or organization was
                    not necessary as evidence 
                  
                     20 Sibley and Wardlaw, Conscientious Objectors in
                            Prison, 3.
                  
                     21 Summers, Selective Service in Indiana, 117. E. Lefferson, a
                            conscientious objector from 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, mentioned a case to the writer in which a ministerial student from
                            Anderson, Indiana, was not only refused classification as a conscientious objector by his
                            local board but was refused the necessary forms which were provided by the government for
                            conscientious objectors.
                  
                     22 See footnote 7.
                  
                     23
                            Selective Service in Wartime, Second Report of the Director of Selective
                                Service, 1941-1942 (
                                Washington
                            , 1943), 261.
               
                     of the sincerity of their convictions. This definition gave way
                    to another when in 1942, General Lewis B. Hershey, the new national director of selective service,
                    stated that he would be satisfied only with objections that were based on religious training and
                    belief. Thus, as far as the law was concerned, a conscientious objector had to recognize the
                    existence of a Divine Being.24 Any other objections that might be based on the
                    futility or stupidity of war, on social or economic grounds, or on any other similar reasoning did
                    not entitle the registrant to exemption. The sincerity of such convictions in itself could not be
                    grounds for exemption, although it was recognized that a person wishing to be exempt on religious
                    grounds must be sincere in his beliefs. If the registrant persisted in his beliefs, which were not
                    recognized by those in authority, the end result was usually imprisonment.
            Throughout the 
                        United States
                     in 1945, there were 11,430 registrants in Class IV-E and more than fifteen thousand men
                    had been inducted into Class I-A–O, one of whom received the Congressional Medal of
                        Honor.25 Indiana, in June, 1944, had 263 persons registered as
                    I-A–O's, and 863 registered as IV-E's in April, 1945, which figures
                    were the highest during the war for these classes in that state. In the percentage relationship of
                    IV-E's to all living registrants, Indiana ranked second in the nation with .15 per cent,
                    whereas 
                        Kansas
                     ranked first with .34 per cent of the total number registered.26
            
            The civilian public service program, which was the alternate provided for those in Class IV-E, was
                    the result of a compromise reached by officials of the selective service system 
                  
                     24 Sibley and Wardlaw, Conscientious Objectors in
                            Prison, preface.
                  
                     25 Corporal Desmond T. Doss, a Seventh-day Adventist noncom-batant
                            medical soldier, was the first conscientious objector (this term was used by the 
                                United States
                             Army in reference to its noncombatants) to receive the Congressional Medal of
                            Honor. He was credited with saving the lives of seventy-five wounded Yanks. Selective Service and Victory, The Fourth Report of the Director of Selective
                            Service (
                                Washington
                            , 1948), 176-179. For the official press release and the War Department
                            citation, see "Conscientious Objector, Medical Aid Man, Awarded Medal of
                            Honor," The Advent Review arid Sabbath Herald (
                                Washington
                            , 1850-), CXXII, No. 44 (1945), 2.
                  
                     26 A letter from the Director of Selective Service to Charles B.
                            Hirsch, April 5, 1949, gives the figure of 863 Hoosiers in Class IV-E. Selective Service and Victory, 503, states there were 857. Three states had a
                            higher number of registrants—
                                Pennsylvania
                            , 1,548; 
                                Ohio
                            , 1,439; and 
                                Kansas
                            , 907.
               
                     and members of the peace churches in 1940. President Franklin D.
                    Roosevelt, in an executive order dated December 6, 1940, defined noncombatant training and service
                    as duty in a unit which was unarmed at all times; work in the various echelons of the medical
                    department; and service in any unit or installation which did ont require the use of arms in combat
                    or training in their use.27
            
            Aside from the medical department this order provided for the use of noncombatants in the
                    Quartermaster Corps, where they could be used in the bakery, warehouses, and repair shops; in the
                    chemical warfare service where they were restricted to the decontamination units; and also in the
                    Signal and Engineer Corps. In 1943, however, an order was issued which restricted noncombatant
                    service to the Medical Corps.28
            
            While the national government was gradually forming a policy toward the treatment of conscientious
                    objectors, a sampling of public opinion indicated that in general the American people were not
                    hostile to the special classifications for these persons. Over three-fourths of the individuals
                    questioned said that the government should provide wages and allotments not only for the man in
                    Class IV-E but also for his family. Many people favored the principle of alternate service but when
                    it came to allowing the conscientious objectors to proselyte during the war, eighty-seven per cent
                    of the people showed opposition.29 The right to hold a particular belief and the
                    privilege of trying to persuade another to accept it are not the same, especially when proselytizing
                    would weaken the fighting morale of the majority who had been dedicated to winning the war. Activism
                    of this type, if successful on a large scale would greatly interfere with the armed forces of the
                    nation at war. It could even be classified as a direct aid to the enemy. Thus while the
                    conscientious objector was protected by his government, he also had an obligation to it.30
            
            
               
                  27
                        Selective Service in Peacetime, 190.
               
                  28
                        Memoranda to All State Directors, September 30, 1940 to October 15, 1943 (
                            Washington
                        , 1945), Memorandum (1-278), dated October 28, 1941; and Local Board
                            Memoranda Nos. 1-195, January 85, 1941 to January 1, 1945 (
                            Washington
                        , 1945), No. 51, which states that "Trainees whose status as conscientious
                        objectors has been established and who are received for processing and assignment will be
                        assigned to medical replacement centers and medical units only."
               
                  29 Leo P. Crespi, "Public Opinion Toward Conscientious
                        Objectors," The Journal of Psychology, XIX (1945), 806-307.
               
                  30 Poling, A Preacher Looks at War, 7.
            
            
            A poll taken in the Middle West over a period of four years showed a change of sentiment among the
                    people. This can be explained largely by the fact that prior to the war, the Middle West was the
                    stronghold of isolationsim. The keep-out–of-war attitude predominated and tended to show
                    a sympathetic feeling toward the conscientious objector who, too, was naturally opposed to the war
                    but for different reasons. Four years later, in 1944, when the country was an active participant in
                    the war and all were urged to do their share toward the war effort, another poll indicated that the
                    middle westerners had changed from the most favorable attitude to conscientious objectors to the
                    least favorable.81
            
            General Hershey said that the civilian public service camps were an experiment which was something
                    new not previously undertaken. He added, "I don't know whether the experiment will
                    work or not. But I hope and pray that it will."82 Just how much the
                    general prayed about the matter is open to question, but the experiment was not only started but
                    actually lasted throughout the period of the war. As to whether it was a success is still a
                    debatable question. The great test was to see if American democracy was big enough to preserve the
                    rights of minorities during a time of crisis, and to an extent this was achieved.
            Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt in answering the question "How do you think our boys who have gone to
                    war and risked their lives should treat conscientious objectors after the war?" replied:
                    "I should think that the boys who go through the war, and who believe in what they are
                    doing, would have a respect for a conscientious objector who had an equally strong belief that he
                    should not kill other people. We have put these conscientious objectors to work in this war. They
                    are clamoring for more dangerous work. Some of them are already doing work which requires great
                    courage, but not the taking of another man's life. It would certainly seem a curious thing
                    to me if a boy were not able to understand, having had deep convictions himself, that other people
                    have 
                  
                     31 Crespi, "Public Opinion Toward Conscientious
                            Objectors," The Journal of Psychology, XIX, 243.
                  
                     32 Robert E. S. Thompson, "Onward Christian
                            Soldiers," The Saturday Evening Post (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1821-), CCXIV (August 16, 1941), 27.
               
                     a right to equally deep convictions and that they should be
                        respected."33
            
            The national government in spite of all the problems that confronted it during the war years gave
                    some consideration to the conscientious objector. While it did not grant full recognition of
                    conscience, it did provide for a noncom-batant status and an alternate civilian work program which
                    marked a definite advance as compared to the provisions made during World War I. The fact that the 
                        United States
                     gave more consideration to the conscientious objector may be sufficient evidence that
                    it was attempting to protect the American heritage of religious freedom. According to polls taken,
                    Indiana and the Middle West did not give their full support to the maintenance of freedom of
                    conscience during World War II.
            
               
                  33 Eleanor Roosevelt, "If You Ask Me," Ladies Home Journal (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1883-), LIX (August, 1942), 26.
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            Journal of James Darwin Maxwell
            
               Edited by Doris M. Reed*
            On October 17, 1843, James Darwin Maxwell left his home in 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, to go to 
                        Philadelphia
                     to complete his medical education. He traveled to 
                        Lafayette
                     to board a canalboat on the newly completed 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal to carry him to 
                  Toledo,
                            Ohio
               . From there his journey took him
                    alternately by boat and train across Lake Erie to Buffalo, across 
                        New York
                     State to 
                        Albany
                    , down the Hudson River to 
                        New York City
                    , across the harbor to 
                        Amboy
                    , 
                        New Jersey
                    , and on to 
                        Philadelphia
                     by train. His "Journal" describing his trip, setting forth some of
                    the impressions which the Eastern States made upon one accustomed to Indiana, and giving some
                    account of his medical studies in 
                        Philadelphia
                     is reproduced from the original manuscript in the Indiana University Library.
            The writer of the "Journal" was born on May 19, 1815, near 
                        Hanover
                    , Indiana, to which his parents, Dr. David H. and Mary (Dunn) Maxwell, had moved in 1807
                    from their native 
                        Kentucky
                    . When the boy was four years old, a second move was made, this time to 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, which was chosen as a place of residence by his father partly because he
                    considered the situation, on high ground between the forks of White River, healthful, and partly
                    because a township had been donated at that point by Congress for a state university. By this move
                    David H. Maxwell became 
                        Bloomington
                    's first physician.
            The son, James Darwin Maxwell, was educated in the local schools and at Indiana College from which he
                    graduated in 1833. Soon after graduation he became a tutor of Latin in the Preparatory Department of
                    the College, a position which he held for two years. In 1836, Ebenezer Newton Elliott, Professor of
                    Mathematics and Physics in the College was chosen President of 
                        Mississippi
                     State College at 
                        Clinton
                    , 
                        Mississippi
                    ,1 and took young Maxwell with him as Professor of 
                  * Doris M. Reed is assistant curator of special collections at the Indiana
                            University Library, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana. Miss Reed is in chargé of all manuscripts in the library.
                  
                     1 Theophilus A. Wylie, Indiana University, its History
                                from 1820, when Founded, to 1890 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1890), 105.
               
                     Latin. At the end of a year Maxwell was back in 
                        Bloomington
                    . The 
                        Mississippi
                     college had closed its doors for lack of funds, and he had in his pocket a watch as his
                    only pay for his year's work.
            At that time he put teaching behind him and chose to follow his father's profession. Until
                    he went East in 1843 to take his medical degree at Jefferson Medical College, he studied and
                    practiced with his father, except for the winter of 1840-1841 when he attended Transylvania Medical
                    College at 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               . On his return from 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1844 he entered upon a medical career in 
                        Bloomington
                     which was to last for almost fifty years, his retirement coming a year before his death
                    on September 30, 1892. As a physician Maxwell was widely known throughout southern Indiana, and his
                    skill, especially as a diagnostician, was highly regarded.
            In addition to his practice Maxwell continued through the years his father's keen interest
                    in and loyal championship of Indiana University. Both served for many years on the Board of Trustees
                    of the University, David H. Maxwell being its first president and continuing as a member until his
                    death in 1854, a period of more than thirty years. James Darwin Maxwell was to have an even longer
                    connection, extending for almost fifty years, as Secretary of the Board from 1838 until 1855, and as
                    a Trustee from 1860 until his death.2
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Journal
                        [Oct. 1843] 
                        Left Home on the morning of the 17th with feelings of a nature
                                    not to be describe" Why? I can't descend into the minutiae further
                                    Was Wheeled to Putnamville with many a jar & jolt by 3 ‘O.
                                    Breakfasted with a Potawatomie looking family near Gosport (Abel) at a bit a meal.
                                    Lost or left as I thought my Trunk key. Hunted all over Putnamville for one like it.
                                    Finally got a blacksmith to undertake to make one. 
                              
                                 2 Biographical material on James Darwin Maxwell
                                            appears in Florence W. Houston, Maxwell History and
                                            Genealogy (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , c 1916), 107, 165-167; George I. Reed (ed.), Encyclopedia of Biography of Indiana (2 vols., 
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1895-1899), II, 218-220; 
                                                Bloomington
                                            , Indiana, The. Republican Progress, October 5,
                                                1892; R. French Stone, Biography of Eminent American Physicians and
                                                Surgeons (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1894), 656-658: James A. Woodburn, History of
                                                Indiana University (‘Blooming-ton, Indiana, 1940), I,
                                            23, 410; Wylie, Indiana University, 173; L. G. Zerfas,
                                            "Medical Education in Indiana as influenced by Early Indiana
                                            Graduates in Medicine from Transylvania University," in the Indiana Magazine of History (
                                                Bloomington
                                            , Indiana, 1905-), XXX (1934), 147-148.
                           
                                     Found it in my pocket with my money on going to
                                    bed at night — Pd Blak'h
                                    next morning 25cts for trouble with thanks into the bargain A
                                    passing word ‘Let me recomend Mrs Eaglesfield to all Conniseurs of good
                                    Living on pan cakes particularly 18th Oct.
                        Left Putnamville at 12 Ock Arrives at Kissers Sun down 14 miles
                                    — Started at 8 in a mud wagon — reached 
                                        Crawfordsville
                                     12. Met Frank. Arrived at 
                                        Lafayette
                                     2 Oclock. Met friend Will who had been waiting for me since the
                                    previous evening — Spent the evening with Will Dunn &c. Went to
                                    see Phaville — Was very kindly rcd. Left Laf* on 201/2 h. 9 Oclock in canal
                                        Boat.3 Beautiful day with pleasant company on Board
                                    — An elderly Lady & her Daughter. The Daughter looking very much
                                    like Mrs Livingston except in her form (Low & heavy)
                                    — Very conversible. her name Miss Sarah Goodwin
                                    — Passed Logansport in night.
                        21st. Saturday
                        A drizly morning, but pleasant day. Several Lady passengers on Board at America
                                    — Met 4 Indian squaws — & a boy — Dressed
                                    in dashing red & blue — riding a la mode King George on Indian ponies — One so very modest
                                    that she used her hand as a screen to shield her charms from observation
                                    — Sunderland & [I] got off at a Lock to walk to the next lock 3
                                    miles — overtaken by two Indians on their ponies (race horses (Bill
                                    & John brothers) Both no. one of them tolerably drunk wanted to bet on the
                                    speed of Johns horse — I proposed to try my own speed on foot against
                                    Bill's pony. No sooner said than off we started — Bill beating
                                    me. Stopped at a Doggery (Bill & his B.) & invited us to go in
                                    & drink with him —Came to the end of our three miles at F
                                        Lafontaine's4 possessions — Lafontaine
                                    the chief of the remaining part of Miami Indians — Sunderland & I
                                    went into his store to see him & get a pair of Mocasins — none on
                                    hand — F has large possessions & is reported to be worth a
                                    million of dollars. Has a store & a white man for a clerk — Is
                                    very large weighing averdupois 3.25. A face like a full moon, with broad humor
                                    shining through it — The country since leaving Lafaye
                                    of a very poor quality — Low — wet — timbered with
                                    oak & black Jack Reached 
                                        Fort Wayne
                                     at 8 at night — S. & I spent an hour in rambling
                                    over town & seeing as much as could be seen after night — Quite a
                                    business aspect — Some very fine buildings being put up —
                                    Could not judge of the country arround At the Sumit level of the canal here
                                    & from this commence going down to Lake Erie. Passed
                                    several small towns of no note
                        Sunday
                        
                           
                              3 The 
                                            Wabash
                                         and Erie Canal was opened to 
                                            Lafayette
                                        , Indiana, from 
                                 Toledo, Ohio
                              , on July 4, 1843, in the very year in which Maxwell
                                        made his journey. Logan Esarey, History of Indiana (3d. ed., 2
                                        vols., 
                                            Fort Wayne
                                        , Indiana, 1924), I, 408.
                           
                              4 At the confluence of the Wabash
                                        River and Little River, some three miles below the present 
                                            Huntington
                                        , Indiana, Francis LaFontaine, nominal chief of the Miami Indians,
                                        erected a frame house in 1841. Bert J. Griswold (ed.), 
                                 
                                                Fort Wayne
                                            , Gateway of the West, 1802-1813 (
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1927), 293 note. This volume is XV of the Indiana Historical Collections (
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1916-).
                        
                        
                        Reached Fort Defiance at 10 O to day — Here the canal opens into the
                                    Maumee River. Some very fine country on the Banks of the Maumee — Expect
                                    to reach 
                                        Toledo
                                     to night 11 Oclk has been snowing this evening
                        Monday Morning
                        Reached Toledo in the night — got off Boat this morning —
                                    Stopped Indiana House — The poorest of poor accomodations — 
                                        Toledo
                                     or some other point on Maumee Bay destind to be a
                                    considerable place, as there is already the W & Erie canal completed to this
                                    place — Also a railroad from Adrian Mich' some 40 miles
                                    terminating at this place & when the extension of the Miami Canal is
                                    completed to its place of junction with the 
                                        Wabash
                                     & Erie canal, all or most of the shipments from Cincin1 for the north & viceversa will probably take this
                                    rout, requiring only one re-shipment between Buffalo & Cincin1 & that at 
                                        Toledo
                                    . Monday 1 Oclock embarked on Steam B "Robt Fulton".
                                    In passing out of Maumee Bay into Lake, saw the Battle Ground
                                    where Perry achieved his victory — Boat went up to 
                                        Monroe
                                     on the River Raisin the town is the site of the
                                    Battle ground.5
                        
                        Tuesday morning.
                        A most beautiful day. Reached Cleaveland at Sunrise Left an hour after —
                                    Went up into the rigging — a most splendid view — Saw 4 steam
                                    boats & six sail all dotting the lake. Such a scene on such a morning was
                                    well calculated to impress one with the magnificent wonders of nature &
                                    expand the heart with solemn & humble adoration The day continued pleasant
                                    & upon awakening in the morning we found ourselves at 
                                        Buffalo
                                     Remained to breakfast at 
                                        Buffalo
                                    . Previous to this at 
                                        Toledo
                                    , we had to keep eyes open to prevent our baggage from being carried off
                                        Nolens volens — Here it was worse ten fold. The
                                    Language of the Professional carriers & their manners are
                                    realy amusing — "Want a hack Sir "Want a cab Sir "
                                        United States
                                     Hotel best house in town — "Shall I take your trunk
                                    Sir "carried free of expense if you go to United S. H. Another feellow
                                    cries "Get out Jim you know you lie "If you want to put up at a
                                    fashionable house Sir (addressing the passenger) go to the "Love Joy
                                    house" No better in the city; charges moderate — This is the
                                    Love Joy Omnibus This fellow or some other one out twenty that are deafening you
                                    with the same kind of cries, all praising up the Hotels of which they are the
                                    porters — all for carrying your baggage free of expense as they say (Some
                                    one I say at last will seize your trunk, & you are bound to go with them or
                                    take it away — If you should be going to one house & the porter
                                    of another house have your baggage, the porter of the house to which you are going
                                    will have it or have a fight for it Such customs releive you of imposition in one
                                    way by making up for it in another — You pay th portage in your bill. It
                                    seems very strange to a western man to see the Shifts to which these N Yorkers
                                    resort to make a living. 
                              
                                 5 Here the naval victory of Oliver Hazard Perry at
                                            Put-in–Bay, September 10, 1813, seems to be confused with the
                                            victory of the Americans under Colonel Lewis at Frenchtown on the
                                                River Raisin, January 18, 1813. Benson J. Lossing,
                                                The Pictorial Field-Book of the War of 1812 (
                                                New York
                                            , 1869), 351-353, 518-530.
                           
                                     A stranger would be inclined to think at first
                                    they were all the obsequious Servants of some lordly master into whose interest they
                                    were completely drilled. A want of self respect — of dignity &
                                    independence are certainly more characteristic of them than any people I have ever
                                    seen.
                        The Proprietors of Rail R & Canal Packets or their agents will prate and lie
                                    lie again in order to make a bit — a set of Swindlers in my humble
                                    opinion from beginning to end inducing you to by their hand bills to take their
                                    different modes of conveyance, but never coming up to promises in making their time
                                    From Buffalo on Wednesday we went to the Falls of Niagara over the most miserable of
                                    all Rail Roads — Stopped at " Niagara House after a travel of a
                                    few hours — PS. The scene of the Falls I shall not attempt to describe.
                                    Only say that visited different points which are resorted to on both sides &
                                    that my anticipations in some respects was not realized & in some much more
                                    than realized.
                        The grandeur of the view from Table Rock (Canada Side) is terrifically sublime.
                        Left Niagara at 4 Oclock P M. Arrived at Lockport at 6. & took passage in
                                    Packet canal Boat for Rochester. Oh! Such a night. Some 70 crowded men &
                                    women into a canal boat!! Preserve me from ever getting on one again. Arrived at
                                    Rochester just in time to see the Smoke of the cars as they were leaving for Utica
                                    — How provoking — The captain of the Packet kept us back no
                                    doubt purposely (for they do such things,) to get the passengers on the packet which
                                    was to start in a few moment for the same place, being all of the same line. I would
                                    sooner have delayed a week than patronised such fellows — Did delay at
                                    Rochester until the evening train started at 8 oclock & in the mean time
                                    spent my time most pleasantly in looking over the city — the Genessee
                                    falls — the water power — the different kinds of Machinery
                                    & Manifacs the Arcade &c. Travelled all night
                                    & next morning after passing Syracuse (where all the Salt in the world is
                                    manufactured) about 15 miles in the midst of a Snow Storm, we had a collision of the
                                    Eastern & Western train of cars. If you want the particulars of this just
                                    ask me about it. I have not time to describe it or the beautiful scenery of the
                                    country through which we passed. On account of the collision we were again too late
                                    for the train of cars leaving Utica for Albany — had to wait until 9
                                    oclock at night. In the mean time Sunderland & a friend living in
                                    Massachusetts whom we met at the Falls & myself took a stroll around the
                                    city over shoe mouth deep in the Snow — Went up to the Lunatic Assylum
                                    (By the bye had a Lunatic on the cars going to Utica. Some rare sport with him. This
                                    is one of the best Asylums of the kind probably in the U.S. After introducing
                                    ourselves to the Physician in attendance we registered our names — looked
                                    at a fine Medical Library, containing upwards of 1500 books, when we were shown with
                                    a great deal of Urbanity the common Hall — the seperate apartments
                                    — the nature of warming the different rooms with hot air —
                                    different bathing establishments — pleasure grounds for exercise
                                    &c &c. From the top of the Building we had a fine view of the city
                                    laying off at the distance of a mile.  The
                                    building is 500 feet in length & constructed with granite (grey) front. It
                                    will long remain a Monument of the philanthrophy & taste of the citizens of
                                    N.Y.
                        Friday Night
                        Another night out — on the way from Utica to 
                                        Albany
                                     — To 
                                        Troy
                                    . This 
                                        Troy
                                     will learn me a lesson about travelling. How? I cant explain here.
                                    Arrived at 
                                        Albany
                                     at day break. Harrassed as Usual with Porters. How one N.Y.
                                    hypocritical sanctified looking landlord came it over his brother
                                    land lord in relation to one backage "Temperance House" Yes! What
                                    there is in a name I would not resort to the low degrading means to secure custom,
                                    which I find is customary on this line of travel, for all the
                                    wealth of 
                                        India
                                    
                        
                        Left 
                                        Albany
                                     7 Oclock A.M. in fine Steamer Empire. She is well named Never before
                                    have I seen such a Steamer. Such length (300 ft) Such sharpness of prow —
                                    Such machinery & such elegant finish. The engine is upon a new principle
                                    & every thing strikes a westerman as some thing beyond what he is accustomed
                                    to — You pay 50ct" for every meal &
                                    have the best of accommodations. The day was most beautiful but far less beautiful
                                    than the Scenery around. I had been led from previous representations to expect
                                    much, but of the beauty of the Catskill Mountains in the distance with the mellowed
                                    appearance of Shade & light imparted by the green and yellow leafs &
                                    the flimsy white clouds which hung upon their summits & sides; must be seen
                                    to be appreciated. The view as you emerge from the broad expanse of water into the
                                    narrows between the Highland struck me as being peculiarly beautifull, &
                                    down to the site of West Point. Here we took Marshall Bertrand6
                                    on Board who was up at the point upon a visit. His embarkation was honored by the
                                    presence of Many if not all the Officer in Uniform & by the Military Band.
                                    Arrived in N.Y. late in the evening (6 oclock) Stopped at Misses Constantines Broad
                                    Way No 10. Baggage at N Y. Yes never do such a trick again — Sunderland
                                    had left in the chargé of one of the dock hands of the Boat who was to
                                    send by some drayman. We waited & waited. I got uneasy and after night as it
                                    was in such a city as N.Y. Started to the place of landing up one street &
                                    down another & across another & so on untill I reached the place.
                                    The trunks had gone but where? I thought it doubtful whether we would ever see them
                                    again — Got lost going back, but found my self after awhile &
                                    what was better the trunks at our boarding house.
                        Remained from Saturday night untill Wednesday morning in N Y. Visited Parks with
                                    their fountains of Croton water — Visited University 
                              
                                 6 Henri Gratien Bertrand, 1773-1884, was one of the
                                            generals of Napoleon I. He followed Napoleon into exile on the islands of
                                            Elba and St. Helena. On his visit to the 
                                                United States
                                             in 1843 he was feted in 
                                                New York
                                            , from whence he made a one-day visit to West Point. Nouvelle Biographie Générale depuis les
                                                Temps les Plus Reculés jusqu'à nos
                                            Jours … sous la direction de M. le Dr. Hoefer (46 vols., 
                                                Paris
                                            , 1853-1866), V (1855), col. 763-765; 
                                                New York
                                            
                                            Daily Tribune, October 27, 1843, and October
                                        28,1843.
                           
                                     Medical School — Introduced to Some
                                    of Profs. Prof Mott7 Prof Pateson8 Prof Bedford9 &c. Much pleased
                                    with their pleasant manners and the apparent interest they took in our comfort
                                    &c. Traversed the city — Heard Introductory Lectures of Mott
                                    & Raviere.10 Attended on one evening the American Museum
                                    & some pantomine action. Visited Brooklin — Navy Yard
                                    — Naval Lyceum &c. A rare collection of curiosities from every
                                    part of the world and of every date Started for 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     on Wednesday morning 5 Oclock by way of Steamboat to 
                                        Amboy
                                     & thence to 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     by Rail Road. For once in my life, saw the briny foam dashed aside by
                                    the prow of our boat & had a view of the Atlantic Ocean
                                    in the distance. Saw from 40 to 80 boats engaged in grappling up Oysters Arrived in 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     on 2nd Oct.11 at a place on
                                    Market St called "Western Hotel" kept by some Yankee Gouger. The
                                    name "Western" at least was disgraced.
                        Commenced boarding on 3d of Oct.11 at
                                    M' Brewster's with friend Allison & Sunderland
                                    — This being the week of Introductory lectures I attended them in both
                                        schools,12 preparatory to making up my decision as at which
                                    I should matriculate — In the mean time Sunderland & I ran all
                                    over the city — visiting such places as were curious, & thinking
                                        ad interim some thing about returning to 
                                        New York
                                    . At the end of the week however we concluded that we could learn as
                                    much, if not more at the Jefferson School, than any other and therefore matriculated
                                    regularly —
                        The want and absence of any thing very interesting during a winter, spent monotously
                                    in sitting upon hard benches and listening attentively 
                              
                                 7 Valentine Mott, 1785-1865, M.D. 
                                                Columbia
                                             College, 1806, was the principal founder, in 1841, of the 
                                                New York
                                             University Medical College, in which he became Professor of
                                            Surgery and Relative Anatomy. He had previously served on the medical
                                            faculties of 
                                                Columbia
                                             College, the College of Physicians and Surgeons, and the
                                            Rutgers College Medical School. He was widely known for his surgical skill.
                                            Stone, Biography of Eminent American Physicians and
                                            Surgeons, 346-347.
                              
                                 8
                                            
                                                Granville
                                             Sharpe Pattison, Scotch physician who emigrated to America in
                                            1818. He taught anatomy at the University of 
                                                Maryland
                                             and at Jefferson Medical College in 
                                                Philadelphia
                                            , before joining the faculty of the 
                                                New York
                                             University Medical College in 1841. William F. Norwood, Medical Education in the 
                                                    United States
                                                 before the Civil War (
                                                Philadelphia
                                            , 1944), 89,135 note.
                              
                                 9 Gunning S. Bedford, Professor of Midwifery and
                                            Diseases of Women and Children, in the 
                                                New York
                                             University Medical College, and one of its founders. Ibid., 121, 135 note.
                              
                                 10 John Revere, son of Paul Revere of Revolutionary
                                            fame, a graduate in medicine from the University of Edinburgh, who was known
                                            for his contributions in the field of applied chemistry. He became Professor
                                            of the Theory and Practice of Medicine in the 
                                                New York
                                             University Medical College at its founding in 1841, having
                                            taught previously at Jefferson Medical College in 
                                                Philadelphia
                                            . Ibid., 89-90, 135 note.
                              
                                 11 In both of these cases the month should be
                                            November.
                              
                                 12 The two medical schools in 
                                                Philadelphia
                                             at this date were the University of 
                                                Pennsylvania
                                             School of Medicine, founded 1765, and the Jefferson Medical
                                            College. The latter was established in 
                                                Philadelphia
                                             in 1825 as the Medical Department of Jefferson College of 
                                                Canonsburg
                                            , 
                                                Pennsylvania
                                            . It became an independent institution in 1838 upon action by
                                            the state legislature. Ibid., 63, 87, 90.
                           
                                     to many most excellent lectures; prevent me from
                                    particularizing the events of the winter — I might ring
                                    the bell and enter with you, the dissecting room but there, your
                                    eyes would behold scenes too repugnant to your finer sensibilities. Let us pass on
                                    therefore to the day of examination for the degree of M.D. Theses had been handed in
                                    some weeks previously, each accompanied with its $30.00 —
                                    Notes from the Dean of the faculty had notified the candidates
                                    whose theses were acceptable, that they would be admitted to examinations, on
                                    certain days which they had drawn by lot. — I was favored by Fortune
                                    & the goodness of a friend who exchanged with me, with the first day I
                                    girded up my loins, and as Friend Allison expressed it, "prepared myself
                                    for the slaughter"
                        At 7 Oclock P. M. I called at Dr Mitchall's13 and was shown into his Studio — a kind of
                                    anti-chamber to the Green Box, where you might calmly Solely and silently contemplate your fate I walked the
                                    room for many minutes, waiting to be ushered into the D" private office he
                                    in the mean time being at supper, as I supposed from his delay, at least, it seemed
                                        delay to me — I thought in the mean time of Dr Physics14 advice to his Surgical pupils
                                    — "Before you undertake an operation of any importance, for many
                                    days before hand, make your self perfectly familiar with the pails by handling them
                                    from day to day — knowing all the land marks — So I cast about
                                    me to see what was to be seen & learned, hoping that as familiarity as in
                                    the above case of the Surgeon would give confidence and composure, so it might in
                                    mine Finally I was ushered into the Prof" presence by himself opening the
                                    door of my room and asking me into his — After a few general &
                                    preliminary remarks, he asks! Well, what did you write upon? A. Rubeola with certain
                                    complications. How is it characterized? I told him — What is the
                                    Diagnosis? — I gave that which exists between it & Scarlatina (In
                                    what follows, I will only give the questions without my answers, underscoring such
                                    as from any circumstances were incorrectly or not fully answered) — What
                                    Membrane is affected in Scarlatina? What is Measles? What do persons
                                        generally die with when Measles prove fatal? How would you diagnosticate
                                    between Measles & Variola in the early stage? How could you
                                        prognosticate beforehand an attack of Varioloid? What is Pneumonia? How
                                    would you treat it? Where your blood letting & Tart Emetic failed what would
                                    you do? "I am satisfied & hope to see you at Commencement"
                                    was his remark as he walked with me to the door.
                        Prof Mütter15
                        
                        Ushered into an Anti Room where were waiting 5 or 6 students for their examination
                                    —
                        
                           
                              13 John Kearsley Mitchell, 1798-1858, eminent in 
                                            Philadelphia
                                         both for his treatment of nervous diseases and as a general
                                        practitioner. In 1841 he was called to the chair of the Theory and Practice of
                                        Medicine at Jefferson Medical College, a position which he held until his death.
                                        Stone, Biography of Eminent American Physicians and Surgeons,
                                        325.
                           
                              14 Philip Syng Physick, 
                                            Philadelphia
                                         surgeon, 1768-1837, to whom many advances in surgery are credited.
                                            Ibid., 382-407.
                           
                              15 Thomas Dent Mutter, 1811-1859, 
                                            Philadelphia
                                         surgeon and Professor of Surgery at Jefferson Medical College,
                                        1841-1856. Ibid., 351.
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
               Expenses on Trip to 
                            Philadelphia
                        
               
               
                  1843
                  
                  
               
               
                  Oct 17th
                  
                  For Breakfast at Abels
                  12 1/2
               
               
                  " 18th
                  
                  Expenses at Eaglesfield
                  50
               
               
                  
                  Stage fare from Put.e to Laf.e
                  
                  3 25
               
               
                  
                  Pd to Blacksmith (Key)
                  25
               
               
                  
                  Pd for Supper –
                  12 1/2
               
               
                  
                  Pd at 
                                Lafayette
                             –
                  75
               
               
                  
                  Pd for Crystal & gard –
                  85
               
               
                  
                  Pd $8 50 to 
                                Toledo
                             –
                  8.50
               
               
                  
                  At 
                                Toledo
                             –
                  75
               
               
                  
                  Passage to Buffalo
                  7.00
               
               
                  
                  Expenses at 
                                Buffalo
                            
                  
                  50
               
               
                  
                  Passage to Niagara
                  75
               
               
                  
                  Expenses at Niagara
                  81
               
               
                  
                  Passage to Lockport
                  75
               
               
                  
                  " " 
                                Rochester
                            
                  
                  1.62
               
               
                  
                  
                  $26 53
               
               
                  
                  Expenses at 
                                Rochester
                            
                  
                  75
               
               
                  
                  Fare to 
                                Albany
                            
                  
                  8 50
               
               
                  
                  Breakfast at 
                                Albany
                            
                  
                  37 1/2
               
               
                  
                  Fare from 
                                Albany
                             to N.Y.
                  1.50
               
               
                  
                  Paid Dray man –
                  25
               
               
                  
                  Paid to See U S. Museum
                  25
               
               
                  
                  " " " the Batery Garden
                  12 1/2
               
               
                  
                  " for Comb & Tooth Brush
                  37 1/2
               
               
                  
                  Shaving & Cutting hair
                  18 3/4
               
               
                  
                  
                  12.31 1/4
               
               
                  
                  
                  26.53
               
               
                  
                  
                  38.84 1/4
               
               
                  
                  Expenses to Philadel
                  3.25
               
               
                  
                  
                  $42.09
               
               
                  
                  Board at N.Y.
                  4 00
               
               
                  
                  
                  $46.09
               
            
         
         
         
            The Editor's Page
            Governor Henry F. Schricker on November 7, 1949, appointed an Indiana Territorial Sesquicentennial
                    Commission to direct the observance of the one hundred fiftieth anniversary of the creation of
                    Indiana Territory. He has also proclaimed the year 1950 as Indiana Territory Sesquicentennial Year.
                    The Commission is actively engaged in its work, planning suitable celebrations, publications, and
                    observances. A commemorative stamp has been approved. It is anticipated that much interest will be
                    shown in Indiana's early history as a result of these activities.
            The spring meeting of the Indiana Historical Society will be held at the 
                        Evansville
                     Public Museum on May 11, 1950. One of the highlights of the program will be a visit to
                    Angel Mounds. All Hoosiers especially in southern Indiana who are interested in history should make
                    an effort to attend this meeting.
            The Forty-third Annual Meeting of the Mississippi Valley Historical Association
                    will be held at the Biltmore Hotel, 
                        Oklahoma City
                    , 
                        Oklahoma
                    , April 20, 21, and 22, 1950. Father Charles S. Metzger, S.J., of West Baden College
                    will be the chairman of the opening session on the American Revolution and Dr. John D. Barnhart of
                    Indiana University will read a paper at that time on "A New Evaluation of Henry Hamilton
                    and George Rogers Clark."
            On Saturday morning, April 22, Mr. Howard H. Peck-ham of the Indiana Historical Society will be
                    chairman of the session on the American Indians at which time Dr. Dwight L. Smith formerly of
                    Indiana University but now of 
                        Ohio
                     State University will read a paper entitled "The Peace of Mad Anthony
                    Wayne."
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Lincoln Finds a General. A Military Study of the Civil War. By Kenneth P.
                    Williams. (2 vols. 
                        New York
                    : The Macmillan Company, 1949, pp. xx, 1-443; xxi, 445-802. Maps by Clark Ray. End maps,
                    maps, illustrations, index, and bibliography. $12.50.)
            Here are the first two volumes of what will be a four-volume work on the Civil War. These two volumes
                    bring the narrative down to 1864. Although Lincoln found in the West the general he was looking for,
                    Professor Williams has detailed the war only in the East, with the slightest references to the
                    struggle elsewhere. It is not clear from announcements whether the next two volumes will pick up the
                    story from the beginning of the war in the West, and bring it down to tie in with Grant's
                    appointment to command all the Federal armies and his arrival in the East to take charge in 
                        Virginia
                    , or whether the "Preview of a General," which opens the first volume
                    will be made to suffice. It is rather to be expected that the general-in–the-making will
                    be presented in his Western activities before there is a proper understanding of Grant, and why
                    Lincoln could feel that "Thou art the man." It is certainly to be hoped that the
                    whole war will emerge in the completed work and that for the first time the war in the West will
                    have been presented through modern scholarship.
            This work is provocative in many respects but in some it will come very near being the final
                    reckoning. Its total effect on the reader will leave him with the feeling that Professor Williams
                    has done a lot of leveling off peaks of fame and popularity and leveling up valleys of infamy and
                    disapproval. McClellan comes in for long and laborous deflation—not laborous without a
                    zest and eager pushing forward to the final kill. After pursuing "Little Mac"
                    through two campaigns and through the first volume and part of the second, with an ever-sharpening
                    and sarcastic pen, Professor Williams disposes of him in this judgment: "McClellan was not
                    a real general. McClellan was not even a disciplined, truthful soldier. McClellan was merely an
                    attractive but vain and unstable man, with considerable military knowledge, who sat a horse well and
                    wanted to be President" (p. 479). Sometimes the prosecutor may wax  eloquent beyond his needs and by implication discredit those whom he
                    defends. If McClellan was utterly bad, not even being given credit for a victory he won (p. 226),
                    the reader is made to wonder why Lincoln, whom Professor Williams considers no mean strategist, kept
                    him so long; and especially after McClellan had made such an utter failure of the Peninsular
                    Campaign, why the President put him in charge of the 
                        Antietam
                     campaign. Certainly Professor Williams would never have stultified himself by having
                    done so. Next to McClellan, the author puts Meade, and disposes of him as being too much like
                    "Little Mac." He has scant respect for the generalship of Hooker, but considers
                    Burnside not nearly so bad as painted, and he is not as hard on Pope as some writers have been. Also
                    he gives that ancient general, Winfield Scott, a bit of praise in the small part he was to play in
                    the Civil War—praise as somewhat of a set-off against McClellan. Secretary of War Stanton
                    comes out with flying colors. In fact, Professor Williams is at some pains to build up the
                    reputation of Stanton. Also he shows Halleck to have been a much more sound and effective military
                    adviser to Lincoln than he has generally been given credit for being.
            Logically this work deals with the war from the standpoint of the North, and so it is not to be
                    expected that the Southern side of the struggle should be in the focus very much. In fact, it is in
                    this respect that this work makes its great contribution; for Douglas Freeman has dealt with the
                    other side of the picture. But Professor Williams does not forego his opportunities to pass judgment
                    on the Southern leaders. He finds that much of what Jackson did in his military career was no more
                    miraculous than what some of the Union generals did, fast marching, daring, etc., and that
                    Jackson's Valley Campaign was not the amazing performance which G. F. R. Henderson and
                    others in his footsteps have made it out to be. Even Lee falls under the heavy hand of Professor
                    Williams, when he charges "Marse Robert" with "disingenious
                    fabrication" (p. 601) in part of his report of the Battle of Chancellorsville, which did
                    not correspond with something he had written when the battle was being concluded. Professor Williams
                    does not seem to think it possible for a commander in a later report, when he had fuller
                    information, to change a statement without being  guilty of
                    dishonesty. The author now and then makes light of the Confederate generals, especially Jackson and
                    Lee, for appealing to God so much and giving Him so much credit, which one imagines Professor
                    Williams thinks might go to the general himself.
            It must be evident that this reviewer believes that Professor Williams' narrative is
                    forthright and most positive. The author does not stop with passing judgment on the actors in the
                    great drama; he lines up for execution in his notes and appendices various writers of the present
                    day and generation. Douglas Freeman rates treatment in the main narrative, not always unfavorable,
                    but at least once where it seems to have been a little less than generous. He charges Freeman with
                    writing about a certain matter "as if he had been present and made notes" (p.
                    615). This reviewer holds that a historian who can write in such a manner, assuming that he has his
                    facts, has about reached in historical narrative the ultima Thule.
            Perhaps this style of writing by the author comes from the fact that he is a scientist, a
                    mathematician, who deals in exactitudes. If formulas work in mathematics, they should be devised and
                    made to work in historical narrative. When once the true formula has been found, then all deviators,
                    of course, must be wrong. Also Professor Williams is a veteran of the two world wars, and certainly
                    this fact should be of great value in his dealing with the military campaigns of the Civil War; but
                    nevertheless this fact might have a tendency to make a veteran underrate the work of historians
                        of1 military affairs, who have had no military experience.
            Professor Williams writes clearly (supplementing his narrative with 47 extremely well-done maps) and
                    he marshals a vast amount of detailed information of the organization of armies as they fight from
                    day to day in some great battle. He leaves nothing to be desired in this respect, but at times one
                    has the distinct feeling that after all this expert information, one should like to know more about
                    the great sweep of the fighting and a summing up of it all. The build-up sometimes seems to fall
                    flat when the battle is over. Undoubtedly Professor Williams was under great restraint to keep from
                    bringing in some battle incidents to enliven the narrative and entertain the reader. But this work
                    is more for the expert than for the general reader, and it must long remain  monumental on the movements of the Federal armies and their separate
                    units in their campaigns and battles. There can be no question about Professor Williams writing from
                    the standpoint of an expert. Probably no one, unless Freeman, has ever combed through the 128
                    volumes of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies as thoroughly
                    as Professor Williams did. But when he comes to write of civil and political affairs, as he seldom
                    does but principally in Chapter II, he is on more unsafe ground. Had he read the pronouncements of
                    the Southerners as faithfully as he did the Official Records he would not have
                    been guilty of saying that they had found the old 
                        United States
                     Constitution unsatisfactory. They had no quarrel with this document (
                        Madison
                     of 
                        Virginia
                     had been the so-called father of it); they mistrusted the Republican party, which was
                    about to enforce its interpretation of it. He might, also, have had a little better opinion of some
                    of the Southern statesmen.
            The reviewer found few printer's errors or errors of small fact, and the few that were found
                    are noted only that a new edition of this work may eliminate them: Andrew B. Roman is the usual
                    spelling instead of André (p. 36); Frank E. Vandiver, instead of Frank A. (pp. 861, 864);
                    and in the title of Shannon's work with the dates 1851-1865, it should be
                        1861-1865 (p. 796).
            The reviewer hopes that this review may be considered plus, not minus, in rating Professor
                    Williams' work, and he looks forward to reading the next two volumes.
            
               The University of 
                            Georgia
                        . E. Merton Coulter
         
         
            
               The 
                            Ohio
                        . By R. E. Banta. Rivers of America. Edited by Hervey Allen
                    and Carl Cramer. (
                        New York
                    , Rinehart & Company, 1949, pp. 592. Illustrations by Edward Shenton. Maps,
                    bibliography, and index. $5.00.)
            
               The 
                            Ohio
                        
               , thirty-ninth in the Rivers of America Books, is a worthy
                    addition to that series. Well written, interestingly narrated, and historically authentic, Mr. Banta
                    has painted a bold and sweeping canvas of the Ohio Valley and its inhabitants
                    from earliest times to about 1865. Written largely from careful notes taken over twenty years, he
                    speaks with authority and affection of a valley he knows intimately as home.
            
            This book is much more than a history of the river: it is a moving account of the regions drained by
                    it and its tributaries since the days of the mastedon; of its anthropology through the Knoll, Adena
                    and Hopewell cultures, and of the Indian tribes which succeeded them.
            The white man spied out the area drained by this great tree of water by traveling its stem and
                    branches, natural highways for his transportation and shortly his commerce. Great stands of timber,
                    fertile soil, water power, mineral deposits, furs, commerce with the natives, all awaited
                    exploitation. The French first investigated its possibilities from the North, but soon the seaboard
                    English pierced the gaps in the Appalachians and set up counter claims. Occupation proved the
                    touchstone to permanent possession and in this area from forts Le Beouf and Ligonier on the east to
                    Massac and Kaskaskia on the west, and from forts 
                        Dearborn
                     and 
                        Detroit
                     on the north to the headwaters of the Kanawha and Muscle Shoals on the
                    south—an area of 203,900 square miles—these pioneers of a new empire set up a
                    rivalry for its possession which ended only after a hundred years of conflict here eloquently and
                    succinctly portrayed. Losing the "Beautiful 
                        Ohio
                    ," the French lost a continent.
            Then came a rebellion against the old empire and a new nation was born, territorially at least,
                    chiefly embraced by the tributaries of this great water highway. Indians, caught in every case
                    between the contending forces, were exploited, expropriated and degraded despite every contrary
                    effort, collective or individual, of which they were capable; Pontiac, Cornstalk, Logan and Tecumseh
                    were overcome by Boone, Henderson, Wayne, and Harrison.
            Wilkinson, Burr, Putnam, Cutler, Clark, and Filson play their parts in this epic, supported by
                    hundreds of other notable characters. Towns are established, culture rooted in the wilderness,
                    states erected, nature harnessed, commerce developed. A new dominion takes its rise within the
                    confines of the 
                        Ohio
                     and its tributaries.
            But the author is not content to tell the story of empire alone. Here also is the saga of the canoe,
                    keelboat, flatboat and steamboat; the travelers—foreign and domestic—who rode
                    them, the men who worked them, the business interests they served. Here is the culture of the New
                    West: the food the settlers ate, the songs they sang, the educational institutions  they established, the Utopias they attempted, the diaries and travel
                    accounts, and poetry, and history and novels they wrote.
            Ultimately Banta's 
                        Ohio
                     highway, for a time, becomes an ocean between slavery and freedom; a broad highway for
                    pressing the War with Mexico it is by 1861 a water barrier with 
                        Kentucky
                     an unneutral neutral island between two mighty combatants. But peace made it again a
                    path between two neighbors.
            This book is a long series of brilliant vignettes skillfully woven together into a unified whole. The
                    author has the splendid ability of compressing history into compact but comprehensive strands which
                    skillfully he weaves into narrative. He is a thorough master of his subject and is equally at home
                    with Gist, Girty, George Rogers Clark, Rafinesque, George Rapp, John Brown, and Matthew Harris
                    Jouett. His sprightly account is interspersed with significant data: this reader was surprised to
                    find that 
                        Ohio
                    –river tonnage in 1947 exceeded anything in its previous history (41,396,798
                    tons) and is still increasing (p. 516); that mine layers, mine sweepers, LSTs and drydocks, built at 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and other ports high on the 
                        Ohio
                    , were exported via 
                        New Orleans
                     for war on the seven seas (p. 520).
            Errors noticed are minor: Zebulon Montgomery Pike, not his father Captain Zebulon (NMI) Pike named
                    the Peak (p. 97); in 1768, 
                        Kentucky
                    , except for veterans, was closed to settlement by the Proclamation of
                    1763 (p. 114); a Dr. Watson* appears to have built an ocean-going vessel at 
                        Pittsburgh
                     as early as 1793, or five years earlier than Preble's 120 ton brig (p. 283);
                    Charles Hammond should be associated for the sake of clarity with the St. Clairsville Federalist rather than with the Scioto Gazette (
                        Chillicothe
                    ) (p. 425).
            The last three chapters of this delightful narrative are a postlude: Eighteen evaluates the enormous
                    mineral resources of the Valley and their development; Nineteen recounts the canalizing and damming
                    of the river after World War I which made it again an exceedingly important commercial highway east
                    and west; and Twenty is a sketch of the historic towns from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to Cairo as they were and as they are. This is a book for Everyman's library.
            
               University of 
                            Oklahoma
                        
                Alfred B. Sears
         
         
         
            
               Indiana Politics During the Civil War. By Kenneth M. Stampp. Volume XXXI.
                    Indiana Historical Collections (
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana Historical Bureau, 1949, pp. xiii, 300. Bibliography and index.
                    $3.00.)
            "This study is focused upon the political aspects of Indiana's [Civil] war
                    experience, but it is hoped that politics has been interpreted in its broadest sense." This
                    quote from the preface, which also offers two basic interpretations concerning the war, indicates
                    the general content and fundamental themes of this volume. One interpretation is that
                    "there has been a tendency to exaggerate immensely the number of Hoosiers who were openly
                    pro-southern or who favored ‘peace at any price.’ Indiana's people
                    overwhelmingly favored the prosecution of the war until the Union was restored." The second
                    basic interpretation is that "Nowhere else did the people debate more violently the merits
                    of the revolutionary social changes which the war brought about." Moreover, it is claimed
                    that "there was a deep and bitter division between those who wanted ‘the Union
                    as it was’ and those who wanted to break with the past and build a new nation functioning
                    upon new economic principles. It was this issue that arrayed the old Jacksonians against the
                    Republican-dominated Union party. It was this that kept Indiana hanging on the edge of domestic
                    violence, that made her party battles so fierce, and …. finally led to the collapse of
                    her representative government and to the establishment of Governor Oliver P. Morton's
                    personal dictatorship."
            Both the book and historical evidence substantially agree with the first interpretation, however,
                    neither this book nor historical evidence gives appropriate validity to the second. Dr. Stampp
                    pictures the Civil War Hoosiers as being deeply involved in partisan politics but as being
                    essentially conservative when faced with either political or economic radicalism. It was apparently
                    only the intervention of President Lincoln which prevented Morton and the Republican-dominated Union
                    party from making a vigorous attempt to defeat George W. Julian, of the Radical
                    Republican faction, in the election of 1864 (pp. 226-227) when the outcome of both state and federal
                    elections hung in the balance. The Union party position in Indiana in the elections of 1862 and 1864
                    was more conservative than the position of the same at the 
                    federal level. At the end of the war both Morton and Indiana Republicans were inclined toward
                    conservatism, but Morton later joined the Radical Republicans when he thought such a move opportune.
                    These are Dr. Stampp's own interpretations. (See especially chapters 7 and 10.)
                    Partisanship and conservatism have usually been rather "thick per square inch" in
                    Hoosier politics and the Civil War experience apparently was in keeping with Indiana traditions.
            Considerable evidence is mustered to show that Indiana Democrats were overwhelmingly loyal and
                    vigorous in support of the Union, although much more inclined to moderation and compromise than were
                    the Republicans. The discussion of the "treason trials" of 1864 portrays Governor
                    Morton and his followers during an election campaign deliberately timing the trials and distorting
                    the evidence in partisan efforts to pin the label of treason on the Democratic party. Southern
                    Indiana is revealed in a favorable light and although the author does not stress the same it is
                    overdue that it be generally recognized that southern Indiana, especially the democracy of the
                    southern half of the state, has been too long libeled by many who have written Indiana history and
                    biography. The volume is replete with innumerable quotes and citations from and to John B.
                    Norman's 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Weekly Ledger, a Democratic paper whose devotion to the Union was perhaps as
                    consistent and loyal as that of any paper in the state. Democratic victory in the state and
                    congressional elections of 1862 is considered as a repudiation of Republicanism but not of the Union
                    (p. 157), however, the blending of partisan politics by both Democrats and Republicans is
                    inadequately deplored by Dr. Stampp.
            Morton's ability and devotion to the Union are recognized but the priority which he gave to
                    personal ambition and his reckless disregard of constitutional principles and civil liberties are
                    properly presented in an unfavorable light. Perhaps in giving a revisionist view of Civil War
                    politics the author has allowed the pendulum to swing too far from Morton and too close to the
                    Democrats. The number of Democrats who belonged to secret societies or otherwise hampered the war
                    effort may have been proportionally less than the damage which they both directly and indirectly
                    caused. Even when within their constitutional limits the Democracy frequently lacked qualities of
                    political constitutional  statesmanship appropriate to the
                    gravest crisis the Union had faced since the days of the Founding Fathers.
            The second basic thesis that there were violent cleavages, even "hanging on the edge of
                    domestic violence," concerning desired or impending social and economic changes arising
                    from the war is difficult to understand when contrasted with so much evidence in the book to the
                    contrary. It is not consistent with the stress on the conservative trend of Indiana Republicanism
                    during the war as indicated above, nor with the role which the Democrats are given in support of the
                    Union and in avoiding civil strife. On page 2 of Chapter I the author gets farther out on a limb
                    with the following astonishing statement about Indiana and the Old Northwest at mid-century:
                    "Most of the perplexing problems which grew out of rural versus urban interests, of large
                    property holders versus small property holders, had already appeared, and their ramifications were
                    coloring every aspect of that section's political life. Social solidarity, if such ever
                    existed, had given way to social discord—to the tug of divergent economic
                    forces." In 1850, 
                        Madison
                    , 
                        New Albany
                    , and 
                        Indianapolis
                     were the largest towns in the state but each had a population under ten thousand. The
                    1840's and 1850's represented the heyday of rural and agricultural supremacy in
                    Indiana and although complete social solidarity did not exist it was probably greater than in any
                    generation of Hoosier history. Even a quick glance at the data in the 1850 census returns will give
                    abundant evidence of the rural and agrarian dominance of Indiana life at mid-century and give
                    infinitely less evidence of "social discord" and the "tug of divergent
                    economic forces" than suggested by the above and other available quotations from Dr.
                    Stampp. Confirmation of this objection is found on page 11 where it is stated that "in the
                    1850's Indiana was still chiefly a community of agriculturalists. Grazing and the
                    harvesting of her bountiful crops were the major occupations of her citizens."
            This volume is a useful and needed account of the Civil War years in Indiana. It has much
                    documentation regardmg political affairs, but it slips into both major and minor errors, especially
                    in Chapter I which offers mainly background information for the years of strife. In the early
                    1850's the Jacksonian Democrats, "having dominated the state for a
                    generation" (p. 4), are made to rejoice over the collapse of  the Whigs. The simple fact, however, is that the Democratic party never
                    fully controlled the state until they routed the Whigs, following about a decade of Whig dominance,
                    in the state landslide to the Democrats in 1843. The statement that railroads had already tapped and
                    "diverted" most of the Indiana export trade from the Ohio and
                        Mississippi rivers to the East (p. 12) is not consistent with the abundant
                    evidence to the contrary mustered in Dr. Kohlmeier's The Old Northwest
                    …. quoted in the bibliography, nor with the plight of the Indiana river towns during the
                    war as described on pages 78-80. Indiana's second constitution became effective in 1851,
                    not 1850 (p. 9); the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Indiana Journal was not consistently for conservative Whig principles during the
                    1850's (p. 51); and while Indiana was lax and, through force of circumstances got an
                    unsatisfactory settlement agreed to by her creditors, the bald statement that she had repudiated her
                    internal improvements debt (p. 77) is also inaccurate.
            The picture of life at home during the years of fraternal strife has many resemblances to what
                    happened on the home front during World War II. There were extremes of devotion and selfishness, of
                    personal sacrifice and plundering, of generous service and of liberal profiteering, of community
                    programs for relief to the needy along with food and clothing to the soldiers matched by reckless
                    and immoral living. All in all a sordid picture of man's inhumanity to man was mingled with
                    fine qualities of personal devotion and sacrifice. Dr. Stampp writes that "If any elements
                    of ‘a more perfect civilization’ were mixed in the ‘crucible of
                    war,’ they are hard to find in the Hoosier records" (p. 216). This is a
                    worthwhile publication, and it is hoped that the Indiana Historical Bureau will subsequently sponsor
                    similar publications regarding Indiana politics during World War I and World War II, but perhaps the
                    passage of time makes possible more perspective and food for thought if the political life of
                    Indiana during the years 1861-1865 are studied as general background and then compared to
                    Indiana's experience during the two catastrophic wars which have shattered Western
                    Civilization during the first half of the twentieth century.
            
               
                  
                            South Bend
                        –
                            Mishawaka
                         Center Indiana University Donald F. Carmony
         
         
         
            
               Westward Expansion, A History of the American Frontier. By Ray Allen Billington,
                    with the collaboration of James Blaine Hedges. (
                        New York
                    , The Macmillan Company, 1949, pp. xiii, 873. End maps, maps, bibliographical note, and
                    index. $6.25.)
            A history of the American Frontier is the descriptive part of the title here used. The main theme is
                    the expansion of settlements. The work is divided into three sections: the Colonial Frontier, the
                    Trans-Appalachian Frontier, and the Trans–
                        Mississippi
                     Frontier. Each of the first two sections comprises slightly more than a fourth of the
                    text. The organization is geographical and chronological. The story starts with the Spanish activity
                    around the Gulf of Mexico, and it concludes with the Populist Revolt and the Frontier Heritage. The
                    geographical factor is emphasized and clarified by ninety-one maps, each devoted to a special
                    problem.
            Scattered throughout the work, there is extended treatment of the numerous Indian relations. The
                    author condemns the European and 
                        United States
                     treatment of the Indians repeatedly. The complexities of the Indian-White relations
                    could well be more fully elucidated.
            "While making no pretense of original scholarship … [the author] has attempted to
                    present a synthesis of the thousands of pages of writing … inspired by Professor
                    Turner's original essays." In fact the author has tried to give graphic narrative
                    and interpretative explanations for much of the whole course of the history, 1792-1896, weaving it
                    into the Turner Frontier thesis. The undertaking is large, perhaps too large for anything short of
                    many years of systematic effort.
            The author has presented an impressive synthesis. His "highly selective" printed
                    bibliography fills seventy-seven closely printed two column pages. The text and maps carry no
                    footnotes, but presumably a much more extended literature was consulted.
            Perhaps it is the extent of revisionary research herein incorporated that placed the reviewer so
                    frequently out of step with this vigorously written and definitive text. The style will be catchy to
                    youth, but many of the author's generalizations will be challenged by the experienced. A
                    few examples will illustrate the objection. On page 93 we learn 
                    "the spirit of speculation was first shown early in the eighteenth century
                    …" and again the frontiersmen "lengthened the stubby barrels [of the
                    rifles] to six feet or more for accuracy …" (p. 98). One is surprised to find no
                    reference to Jefferson's proposed Ordinance in 1784 for the Northwest Territory.
            The presentation of the outbreak of the Mexican War is confusing. The possibility of foreign
                    influence in 
                        Texas
                     and foreign control of 
                        California
                     is not made a part of the picture. After the statement that President Polk saw
                    "no room for peaceful settlement" the author portrays the succession of warlike
                    incidents and then states, "there was no basis for alarm, of course, but every Mexican
                    believed unquestionably the lesson learned from the sequence of events."
            Instead of three hundred 
                        Missouri
                     volunteers Colonel Doniphan is usually credited with approximately three times that
                    number. To say that "The Battle of Buena Vista left the road to Mexico City open"
                    makes the approach sound much too easy and certain. To state that "Santa Anna ran up a
                    white flag on September 17" implies that he was present for the surrender. The assertion
                    that the easy American victories demonstrated that "the Mexicans were a misgoverned,
                    misdirected people entirely unfit to develop the rich country where they lived" would
                    almost imply indefinite license to the victors. Nor can the reviewer concede that "Polk did
                    not dare to repudiate his agent [Trist]." To use his work was merely the quickest way to
                    the President's objective.
            To present 
                        Clay
                     and Douglas as partner promoters of the Compromise of 1850 must do violence to 
                        Clay
                    's idea of his own role; nor are we accustomed to classifying 
                        Illinois
                     as a border state even though it had its "lower 
                        Egypt
                    ." The 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise did not provide for slavery south of 36 30 as is stated in this book, but
                    merely excluded slaves from the territory north of that line. The implication that Douglas expected
                    the Presidency as a reward for sponsoring the 
                        Kansas
                    –
                        Nebraska
                     Act is an old political canard that I supposed had been laid to rest.
            Andrew Reeder was a 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Democrat but a "pro-slavery" Democrat. He was put forward by the 
                        Topeka
                     free state movement for 
                        United States
                     Senator. The name Republican party was used at the 
                        Ripon
                    , 
                        Wisconsin
                    ,  meeting in March some four months before it was
                    adopted by the 
                        Jackson
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    , meeting July 6. Eli Thayer raised a good part of his Emigrant Aid money from churches
                    rather than financiers. That the initiative and referendum, and the recall "were in general
                    use by 1912" is an overstatement. There was provision for initiative and referendum in
                    sixteen states, and four have since been added, but such procedure is now possible in only four
                    states east of the Mississippi River. The recall had been adopted in eight
                    states at that time.
            The work represents a splendid objective, and it will prove useful to students in the field.
            
               University of 
                            Nebraska
                        
                James L. Sellers
         
         
            
               The Southern Country Store, 1800-1860. By Lewis E. Atherton.
                            (
                  Baton Rouge, Louisiana
                State University Press, 1949, pp. ix, 227. Bibliography and
                    index. $3.50.)
            During the past few years scholars have become interested in the yeoman class of the Old South. That
                    there were farmers in the region and that they were prospering is something of a new idea. That they
                    had developed an agency for the securing of credit, the buying of their supplies, and the marketing
                    of their crops is something that neither earlier writers nor more recent ones have even suspected.
            Professor Atherton has now supplied that information and filled one more gap in the record of this
                    neglected, but important, group. He shows that in regions where the small farmer predominated, and
                    even in areas where farmers were scattered about near large plantations, there were country
                    storekeepers who were themselves small businessmen, and who rendered all the services to their
                    customers that the factor in the coastal cities rendered to the large planters. And they prospered.
                    Some of them went on to become factors and some of them were content to grow wealthy in their own
                    neighborhoods.
            The factorage system had developed in the Southern colonies in an early period for the marketing of
                    tobacco and rice. With most of their capital tied up in land and labor and with efforts centered
                    primarily on the raising of a single cash crop sold in distant markets, the planters were glad to
                         turn their marketing over to capable outsiders. These were
                    either the agents of large concerns in 
                        England
                     or independent middlemen who resided at some convenient shipping point. They sold the
                    planter's crops on commission and purchased his supplies. They were both respected and
                    hated according to the degree of prosperity existing at any time.
            This system was passed on to the 
                        Cotton Kingdom
                    , and 
                        Charleston
                    , 
                        Mobile
                    , 
                        New Orleans
                    , and other towns had their factors, their warehouses, and their shipping facilities for
                    cotton just as the old eastern centers had had theirs for tobacco and rice. To these the large
                    planters turned for services. Into their keeping again went a large amount of Southern happiness and
                    well-being.
            The small farmer, however, could raise cotton as well as the planter, but he could not use the
                    factorage system. So to take care of his needs the country store appeared, with its
                    "petticoats, pills and plows" and with a proprietor who soon established credit in 
                        New York
                     or elsewhere and who passed it on the lesser folks he served. He marketed their crops,
                    served as their banker, and developed a business policy that served his customers as well as the
                    factor served the planters. He thus became an essential feature of the yeoman life of the section.
            Professor Atherton has done an excellent job and an important one. His scholarship is sound, his
                    style good, and his grasp of the subject in its larger setting unusually satisfactory.
            
               The University of 
                            Chicago
                        
                Avery Craven
         
         
            
               Plain Folk of the Old South. By Frank L. Owsley. (
                  Baton Rouge, Louisiana
                State University Press, 1949, pp. xxi, 235. Maps and index.
                    $3.50.)
            The first four chapters of this very valuable study are revised lectures that were delivered at 
                        Louisiana
                     State University in 1948 in the series known as the Fleming Lectures in Southern
                    History. In a fifth chapter, accompanied by a number of statistical tables, the author analyzes
                    holdings of land and slaves through the use of typical 
                        Southern counties
                    . This extra chapter, plus an index and footnotes in connection with each chapter, makes
                    the study much more useful to students and teachers of the history of the Old South.
            
            A careful inspection of unpublished census material gathered in 1850 and 1860 which was made by Dr.
                    Owsley has led to outstanding results. By extracting much additional new data from county records
                    and church records and supplementing hitherto unused sources by recombing other better-known
                    sources, the outcome is something unusually good which can never be ignored.
            Dr. Owsley has demonstrated that certain old and generally accepted conceptions concerning the Old
                    South are unsound, and has established the fact that the "care of the social structure was
                    a massive body of plain folk who were neither rich nor very poor" (p. 7). He has also
                    proved that the Old South produced livestock very extensively, and that it was farmers not
                    slaveholders, that is, agriculture not slavery, "that drove the herdmen from frontier to
                    frontier and finally into the pine barrens, hills and mountains" (p. 51).
            It is especially interesting to the reviewer that Dr. Owsley stresses the fact that migrating farmers
                    tended to move straight westward because they liked a topography, soils, winters, and summers such
                    as those to which they had been accustomed. In such areas, they could usually succeed in producing
                    familiar crops, plant at such times as they were accustomed to plant and avoid costly experimenting.
                    In this connection he could have pointed out the reason why the deep South contributed almost no
                    settlers to 
                        Kansas
                     Territory between 1854 and 1860 in spite of the urgings of agitators.
            The fourth chapter, headed "The Role of the Plain Folk," is just as interesting but
                    does not present material as new in farming as that which marks the three preceding chapters. It is
                    also true that much of the matter included in chapter four has been gathered from memoirs, other
                    personal accounts, and local histories. The customs of the plain folk of the Old South were by no
                    means confined to that area as similar customs prevailed in 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, 
                  Illinois, Iowa
               , and even in parts of 
                  Michigan, Wisconsin
               , and 
                        Minnesota
                     in the same period. Such variations as there were between the northern and southern
                    frontier areas relative to social and religious customs and co-operative neighborhood practices were
                    differences in degree rather than in kind.
            There is very little that one may take exception to in this refreshing little volume. Where the
                    author presents  matter from personal accounts instead of from
                    official records relative to flocks and herds, one wonders if the figures would not be more accurate
                    if stated in hundreds rather than in thousands (pp. 37, 43, 44). In regard to facilities for
                    education, it is shown that the frontier states of the Old South were practically on a par with the
                    frontier states of the North. This, the reviewer readily accepts, but he cannot agree with Dr.
                    Owsley when he says that "it can be rather positively asserted that most young men, at
                    least, who desired an education, could obtain one" (p. 149). This
                    statement was of necessity a sort of guess. The reviewer's guess would be that not
                    one-tenth of the young men who really desired an education in 
                        Alabama
                     or Indiana, 
                        Mississippi
                     or 
                        Illinois
                    , before 1860, could obtain one.
            Dr. Owsley has placed every one interested in the history of the Old South under heavy obligations to
                    him. He has broken new ground and obtained results. Furthermore, he and the graduate students, whom
                    he has set to work, will continue to produce from the same virgin soil.
            
               Indiana University William O. Lynch
         
         
            
               Lincoln's Vandalia: A Pioneer Portrait. By William E. Baringer.
                            (
                  New Brunswick, New Jersey
               , Rutgers University Press, 1949, pp. vii, 141. End
                    maps, illustrations, notes, and index. $2.50.)
            About the time that the story of Abraham Lincoln's fascinating public career seems nearly
                    complete, someone writes a new and pertinent chapter for it. Dr. William E. Baringer has done this
                    in his study of Lincoln's service in the 
                        Illinois
                     legislature when the capital was Vandalia, a sleepy little town up the
                        Kaskaskia River. The result is another step toward filling out the record
                    of the Civil War president's life.
            For eighteen years after 1820, Vandalia was the seat of government in the "sucker"
                    state. Situated in the southern part of 
                        Illinois
                     where the first settlements were heaviest, it never fulfilled the dreams of its
                    sponsors in becoming a heavily populated commercial and cultural center. The main reasons for its
                    growth were the location of the capital there and the extension of the National Road to that point
                    from 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana. The author gives an excellent description 
                    of these rugged, hopeful times, during which quick success rewarded talented, resourceful men. He
                    focuses attention, however, on the period from 1834 to 1837 when Lincoln was a member of the House
                    of Representatives. Skillfully he combines a view of an infant Midwestern village with an analysis
                    of Lincoln's political schooling.
            Emphasis is placed on the work of the Long Nine (Lincoln and his colleagues from 
                        Sangamon County
                    ) in logrolling a measure for relocating the capital at 
                        Springfield
                     in return for support of an ambitious, unwise internal improvements program. Thus the
                    hero appears as something less than a statesman, but certainly as an astute politician.
            Dr. Baringer, onetime Executive Secretary of the Abraham Lincoln Association, relies heavily on
                    newspapers, manuscripts, and archival materials in producing a book that has been planned for a long
                    time. His methods and findings are, in the main, praiseworthy. The only adverse criticism which can
                    be advanced is that he sometimes doesn't let the reader know where he got his information.
                    In some instances he should have footnoted more heavily in order to show his sources. But this is a
                    small matter when it is compared to the general reliability of this interesting publication.
            
               Indiana University Maurice G. Baxter
         
         
            
               The Earth Brought Forth: A History of 
                            Minnesota
                         Agriculture to 1885. By Merrill E. Jarchow. (
                  St. Paul, Minnesota
                Historical Society, 1949, pp. xvi, 314. Illustrations and index.
                    $3.00.)
            The title of this volume suggests a novel, named after the modern manner, rather than a history of
                    agriculture in 
                        Minnesota
                     to the year 1885. One may regret that the author did not cover a longer span, scarcely
                    more than forty years, but he justifies the limits of the period on the grounds that by the middle
                    1880's the formative period in the agricultural life of the state was over, that the
                    specialized wheat growing of the frontier was passing and mixed farming and dairying were well
                    established in the older section of the state, that the land distribution pattern had been fixed,
                    and that the agriculture in the state had been placed on a sound footing with its future charted.
                    Other reasons for setting the closing  date at
                    1885—partial curbing of economic malpractices detrimental to the farmer, the beginning of
                    the Red River Valley flood of wheat, the growing network of railroads and
                    country roads, the beginning of dairying and the advances then made in mechanization, seem much less
                    cogent than the others.
            In many respects it is helpful to have what is in essence a summary of the book as the first chapter,
                    "A Bird's-Eye View," followed by more detailed treatment of certain
                    aspects. Roughly, and as closely as may be done, the succession of topics follows the order of their
                    appearance as factors of importance in the state. The geographical factors are stressed as
                    "A Powerful Detriment." The chapters on "Settlers and
                    Speculators" and "Free Lands and Railroads" are traditional and well
                    done. Some of the best writing in the volume is in the chapters on "The Farmer's
                    Home" and "Rural Social Life," which are inevitably much like the similar
                    aspects of other midwestern states. Mechanization with three chapters seems to be a bit overdone to
                    end so early in the development. It must be kept in mind, in the chapters on livestock and dairying,
                    that 
                        Minnesota
                     ranked well below the near-by older states in this phase of agriculture and that the
                    signs of advance are relative. If in this instance the author resorts to a plethora of detail, he
                    may be excused by the fact that only by details can he give the impression desired.
            One must read carefully to reach any conclusion as to whether wheat was "King or
                    Tyrant." It was growing in total volume and holding its place in the nation but giving way
                    relatively in favor of some diversification and freedom from the one crop handicap. Yet what was the
                    balance between wheat and the other products in 1885? The author mentions the middlings purifier but
                    it would have been helpful if he had enlarged upon the "revolution" with the
                    practice of "high milling" and the purifier for the satisfactory removal of the
                    bran from the favored hard spring wheat. To this reviewer the chapter, "Bizarre Experiments
                    and Sound Agriculture," lacks something of the clarity and unity of organization generally
                    found in the remainder of the book and is burdened with a superabundance of statistics and trends in
                    multitudinous minor details.
            This volume is a welcome and worthwhile addition to the  growing
                    list of state and regional agricultural histories. The illustrations reflect those of the
                    agricultural press of that day and the format is pleasing. It is to be hoped that a second volume
                    will bring the story to date.
            
               Western Reserve Historical Society Russell H. Anderson
         
         
            
               American Social Reform Movements, Their Pattern Since 1865. By Thomas H. Greer. (
                        New York
                    , Prentice-Hall Inc., 1949, pp. ix, 313. Bibliography and index. $5.35.)
            Professor Greer's book is a convenient summary of some of the major movements for social
                    reform in the period since the Civil War. Space limitations compelled him to select the basic
                    strands of the story and to omit others. This inevitably exposes an author to the kind of criticism
                    that anthologists encounter from readers who are quicker to detect omissions than to appreciate the
                    inclusions. This reviewer, for example, thinks the title of the work misleading because the volume
                    deals after all almost exclusively with movements for economic reform. And since the work is largely
                    concerned with programs for economic change he is somewhat surprised at the extremely brief
                    treatment of the fateful mutations in the nation's economic life history that called forth
                    the efforts at reform; at the scanty attention given Edward Bellamy, Henry George, Herbert Croly (no
                    mention of the important Promise of American Life); at the absence of any word
                    about the Fourteenth Amendment, about Thorstein Veblen, or about Justice Holmes and the momentous
                    shift in American jurisprudence from an emphasis on legal justice toward (though perhaps not yet to) social justice. One feels too that the author's treatment is
                    descriptive rather than analytical and interpretative, though the last chapter,
                    "Conclusion: the Pattern of Reform," sets down some generalizations that emerge
                    from the data in the preceding chapters and that are worth pondering.
            The book divides the story into two periods: 1865-1917 and 1917-present. There are four chapters in
                    the first section, one on the labor movement, another on radical efforts (anarchists, socialists,
                    syndicalists), a third on agrarian programs, and a fourth on the Progressive Movement. The second
                    section follows the same organization with one chapter  to
                    continue the story of organized labor, one on the radical groups since World War I, another on farm
                    movements (Nonpartisan League, the new National Grange, the American Farm Bureau Federation, the
                    National Farmers' Union), and a fourth on the New Deal. To each of these chapters are
                    appended source excerpts from representative illustrative documents, a feature that adds measurably
                    to the value of the work. The volume closes with the chapter on "The Pattern of
                    Reform," already mentioned.
            The book does not pretend to offer new data or interpretations; its merit lies rather in assembling
                    and discipling into a coherent narrative material whose treatment has usually been rather diffuse.
                    This reviewer expects to find the work a useful addition to the basic library of some two or three
                    hundred books that he keeps on a reserve for an upper-class course in social, cultural, and economic
                    forces in the 
                        United States
                     since 1865.
            The author demonstrates once more the essentially conservative pattern of American social change.
                    Reform movements that deviate far from traditional American concepts win very few adherents, though
                    the bolder corollaries of traditional ends and means that they have adumbrated, have frequently
                    become public policy a generation or so after the fringe groups began to educate a skeptical public.
                    There is a lesson here for the hysterical, now so much given to frenetic heresy hunting. The
                    communist influence in the past has been wholly negligible, and the whole history of American
                    society argues that it will continue to be so. "Only in a time of major economic
                    collapse," writes Greer, "would the communists have a chance of winning support
                    for their program. It is for such a moment that they are waiting. The best safeguard against
                    communism and all other forms of radicalism is a positive development of economic well-being and
                    stability."
            Professor Greer writes without passion—I was about to say without
                    inspiration—and expresses himself like a restrained liberal. The New Deal he properly
                    regards as an essentially conservative program, an extension of the Progressive Movement of the
                    preceding generation, constructed wholly within the framework of the American liberal tradition.
            
               The Woman's College of the University of 
                            North Carolina
                        
                Richard Bardolph
         
         
         
            
               Constructive Government in 
                            Ohio
                        : The Story of the Administration of Governor Myers Y. Cooper, 1929-1930. By
                    Harvey Walker. Volume II of the 
                  
                            Ohio
                         Governors Series. (
                        Columbus
                    , The 
                        Ohio
                     State Archaeological and Historical Society, 1948, pp. 249. Illustrations, index,
                    portrait of Myers Y. Cooper frontispiece. $3.00.)
            This book, as is indicated by the title, is concerned with the government of 
                        Ohio
                     during the incumbency of Governor Myers Y. Cooper, 1929-1930. It has a dual purpose, a
                    re-focusing of attention on the estimable qualities of Governor Cooper as exhibited during his brief
                    term as 
                        Ohio
                    's chief executive and a setting forth of the functions and administrative
                    structure of 
                        Ohio
                    's state government.
            There are eighteen chapters. The first contains a political and administrative history of 
                        Ohio
                     with particular emphasis upon the administrative reorganization which occurred in 1921,
                    "one of the best comprehensive re-organizations ever made in any state" (p. 8),
                    and upon the one which was recommended, but only partially put into effect during the administration
                    of Governor Cooper. The second and third chapters are devoted to Governor Cooper's personal
                    history until his election to the office of chief executive and to the office of governor as managed
                    by Cooper. Beginning with the fourth chapter the emphasis is shifted away from the personal aspects
                    and is directed toward the portrayal of administrative functions and structure. In the seventeenth
                    chapter, again, attention is focused on Cooper and his campaign for re-election and in the last
                    chapter it continues under the title "Life of a Former Governor."
            It is no mean feat to carry on a friendly description of a man whom the author admires and at the
                    same time give a systematic objective description of the administrative functions and structure.
                    This is accomplished in part by the device noted above of devoting some chapters to the one
                    objective and the remaining ones to the others. In the chapters, however, devoted to a systematic
                    description of the government, the connection of Cooper with it during his incumbency was not
                    overlooked. The literary task of weaving these two purposes was accomplished more successfully in
                    some places than in others.
            The dearth of monographic treatments of individual state governments appears to have been noted in
                    recent years and  a number of good ones have been published. For
                    example, there are Crouch and McHenry, 
                  
                            California
                         Government; Sikes, Indiana State and Local Government;
                    Donnelly, The Government of New Mexico; and Patterson, McAlister and Hester, State and Local Government in 
                            Texas
                        
               . Professor Walker has added a description for 
                        Ohio
                    . It is the hope that those states for which there is comparable no study will have
                    friends who will be spurred on by these examples.
            Professor Walker is in a fortunate position to draw attention to his friend Myers Cooper. He himself
                    was an active participant in governmental affairs before and during Cooper's
                    administration. He prepared the report of the joint committee on economy which was submitted to
                    Cooper when he became governor, and he was also the superintendent of the budget during the
                    administration of Cooper. He is a professor of public administration in 
                        Ohio
                     State University, and he is an author of distinction in the field. He, therefore,
                    writes with full information and practical as well as theoretical understanding. His treatment of
                    Cooper throughout the book is friendly and his evaluation is such as to make the former governor
                    available for further public service should the opportunity present itself.
            
               Indiana University John E. Stoner
         
         
            
               The Power in the People. By Felix Morley. (
                        New York
                    , D. Van Nostrand Company, Inc., 1949, pp. xv, 293. Bibliography and index.
                    $3.50.)
            This book is the outgrowth of work done by Mr. Morley as President of Haverford College, as a
                    Lecturer at 
                        Wabash
                     College, and as an editorial writer and publicist. The book is not a history, but it
                    utilizes history to illuminate the subject of the people and political power in our American
                    political system. This system, according to Mr. Morley, is based on the assumption that men can
                    govern themselves, but that while the people possess power to govern they will do a better job of
                    governing if they discipline and limit themselves in the exercise of their power by operating
                    through a representative government, organized on a federal basis, and subject to constitutional
                    limitations. This, in substance, is what Mr. Morley means by the "American Way."
            
            One of the most revealing statements to be found in the book is the following: "But
                    modernization should be in harmony with the original design and must not press too heavily on the
                    foundations that support the whole. We are life tenants; not owners. Others will dwell in the 
                        United States
                     when we are gone" (p. 2). And again: "Political reformers, however,
                    are often curiously unaware of the fact that their efforts in the aggregate, do literally reform the
                    governmental system. So, when constitutional change is not accompanied by public awareness of its
                    implications, the seeming modification of original purpose actually operates to bring an
                    unrecognized change of political form."
            In Chapter I, Mr. Morley urges more serious consideration by everyone of the purposes set forth in
                    the Preamble of the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                    , especially when testing the soundness of proposed change. Chapter II deals with the
                    constitutional reconciliation of authority and liberty and the reliance placed from the beginning by
                    Americans on the spirit of compromise in public affairs. This chapter is one of the most interesting
                    in the book. Democracy unrestrained, in Mr. Morley's view, is not the end that was
                    visualized by the founders of our system. In Chapter III, Mr. Morley bewails the current lack of the
                    knowledge of American history; and as he points out the dangers resulting therefrom for both
                    domestic and foreign problems, he sketches a brief historical account of the early political theory
                    of the colonial settlers and their leaders. Perhaps the emphasis in this chapter on the role of the
                    people as citizens, as distinguished from their former role as subjects, strikes the keynote for the
                    chapters that follow. The Revolution is dealt with as a continuation of English politics, but some
                    might feel, in reading these pages, that the author does not sufficiently take account of the
                    Scotch-Irish in this phase of his account. (See also Chapter VII.)
            Mr. Morley approves, in Chapter IV, De Tocqueville's stress on religion as our primary
                    political institution, and seems to feel that individuality is the second. An important distinction
                    between freedom as a general condition and liberty as an individual aspiration, as well as
                    distinctions between authority and force, and society and the state, are also emphasized by the
                    author. The moral of the French Revolution drawn in this chapter is aptly illustrated by the
                    obliteration of liberty by equality.
            
            Apprehension is expressed by the author when he hears and reads that the individual has no rights
                    that cannot be alienated by the state. As he elaborates the rational basis for this fear in Chapter
                    VII, he repeatedly refers to the Puritans and the soundness of much of their political thought. One
                    gathers that Mr. Morley is doubtful of the political contributions to be made by oriental
                    philosophies to Americans, perhaps parting company here with Northrup's Meeting of East and West The incidental role played by systematic history in this book is
                    well illustrated on pp. 165-166, in the discussion of disestablishment of the church in the 
                        United States
                    , the author failing to note that the movement was not as uniformly effective as he
                    implies. More systematic narrative requires notice that not only did 
                        Massachusetts
                     not disestablish until long after the Revolution, but that even 
                        Virginia
                     did not do so until after, though shortly after, the end of that war. Also, accuracy
                    might dictate a statement that disestablishment seldom meant complete separation of religious from
                    political matters.
            Chapter IX is devoted to the conflict in ideas between the 
                        United States
                     and Russia. Chapter X, entitled "To Maintain the Republic," makes the
                    point repeatedly that the American way provides for sensible government, moderate programs,
                    responsible men of action, minorities with high ideals, and a fundamental spirit of decency and
                    compromise. The retention of this Way depends on the retention of the attributes and attitudes that
                    made the system possible.
            Mr. Morley writes an interesting and intelligent book, and doubtless it will strengthen many a reader
                    in his understanding of Americanism.
            
               Indiana University Oliver P. Field
         
         
            
               
                  
                            United States
                         Army in World War II. The War in the Pacific, Guadalcanal: The First
                    Offensive. By John Miller, Jr. (
                        Washington, D.C.
                    , Historical Division, Department of the Army, 1949, pp. xviii, 413. Maps,
                    illustrations, bibliography, and index. $4.00.)
            This volume is an account of the American occupation of the island of Guadalcanal and the Russell
                    Islands during the period from August, 1942, to April, 1943. It is a part of  the current series, The 
                            United States
                         Army in World War II, which, when completed, will contain ninety-six volumes.
                    Eleven volumes are scheduled to deal with the war in the Pacific. This one tells of the American
                    efforts to stop the Japanese who had conquered such large areas within the few short weeks after
                    Pearl Harbor that the communications between the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Australia
                     were seriously endangered. The first plan of attack, designed by the U. S. High Command
                    to stop the Japanese advance toward 
                        Australia
                    , was the seizure of Guadalcanal and the nearby island of Tulagi. This book presents an
                    excellent summary of the combat operations through accounts of the initial preparation, landings,
                    naval defense, major land actions, final mopping up of the Japanese forces, and the transformation
                    of the islands into an offensive base of operations.
            This work brings out the point that in many respects the Guadalcanal campaign was the proving grounds
                    for various types of American offensive techniques used later in the war. Since the only American
                    troops that had yet experienced a large scale operation against the Japanese were those defenders of
                    the Philippines who were then dying in Japanese POW camps, the troops that began the Guadalcanal
                    offensive had little first-hand combat experience. It was to their credit that they adapted
                    traditional American tactics to the terrain and to the type of enemy action which they had to
                    encounter. Most of the engagements were small unit actions; their success depended upon the
                    initiative and perseverance of the individual soldiers. Flanking movements were preferable to
                    frontal attacks; areas of strong Japanese resistance were by-passed; all-round defenses were
                    established daily; and defensive artillery was registered each day before nightfall. A gradual
                    improvement of combat methods resulted. The techniques in the use of the large and small weapons
                    were advanced. The artillery developed its procedure of TOT or time-on–target fire; the
                    technique of using aircraft in close support of ground troops was improved; and the methods of using
                    tank destroyers in support of Infantry were greatly advanced. Much information was also gathered
                    about Japanese weapons, battle techniques, and qualities as fighting men.
            The material in the volume is supplemented by appendices, containing official communications between
                    high commanders,  field orders, a list of Army units that
                    participated in the campaign, and a translation of a captured Japanese document that analyzed
                    American combat methods. In addition to the appendices, there is a helpful "guide"
                    to military phrases, and a bibliographical essay. The essay is quite informative concerning the
                    records of the Army, Navy, and Marine Corps. Other reference sources are ‘the manuscript
                    histories of some of the participants and various published works.
            Although this volume is an excellent one, it contains certain shortcomings. With respect to sources,
                    it admittedly has its limitations. In a later work of this series, Okinawa: The Last
                        Battle, the Army historians were able to secure on-the–spot materials such as
                    reports, plans of battles, accounts of interviews, and other official records. No such staff of Army
                    historians, however, had been organized at the time the Guadalcanal campaign took place.
                    Consequently, the records, official communications, field orders, maps used in the battles, accounts
                    of interviews, and other types of sources necessarily had to be gathered by an Army historical staff
                    many months after the campaign was over. This meant that many of the records were scattered or lost.
                    Another difficulty came from the fact that at that stage of the war no records were made of many
                    events in the campaign. Orders had been given verbally and reports had been made in the same manner.
                    Another problem of source material was that the memories of the participants who were interviewed
                    had a limited scope. Not only had the memories been dulled by time and subsequent events, but only
                    in extremely rare cases did any one man witness and remember all the events of a battle. In most
                    cases, each man knew about only the small unit scraps in which he had participated. These conditions
                    have resulted in gaps in the narrative of the campaign where the details are meager.
            Although the thirty-six maps in the volume are much better than those used by the combat troops
                    during the campaign, some do not contain the location of certain of the smaller important islands
                    mentioned in the text. In other cases, the reader wonders if the names on the maps are meant to
                    locate the places of similar names mentioned in the text of the book. The one thing that is badly
                    needed to improve the usefulness of many of the maps is a list of conventional  military symbols which designate the units of companies, battalions,
                    and regiments. The reader who is unfamiliar with the designation symbols, which are used on many of
                    the maps, will spend many frustrated minutes trying to identify the specific units mentioned.
            In spite of the previously mentioned shortcomings, the author and publishers have done excellent work
                    in the editing of this volume. It presents a pleasing appearance as a single volume upon a book
                    shelf, and it can stand apart as a complete history of the Guadalcanal campaign, without the
                    reader's feeling that it needs the support of the remainder of the series. Its few minor
                    discrepancies do not seriously detract from its merits. For the Army, this volume provides an
                    accurate account of the conduct of its campaigns during the early stages of the war in the Pacific.
                    Army problems in respect to strategy, supply, co-operation with the other branches of the armed
                    services, and enemy movements are all discussed. The book will clear up many questionable issues for
                    the student of military history and the man who took part in any one of the engagements. Enough of
                    the overall picture of the situation in the Pacific is summarized to give this type of reader a
                    comprehension of the meaning of the campaign. All the major battles in the campaign are developed
                    chronologically throughout the text of the book. In many cases, both the high and lower echelon
                    tactics are discussed in detail. Every major encounter is excellently illustrated by one or more
                    detailed maps, which in many instances are supplemented by aerial photographs. With these aids it is
                    not hard for even a beginning student of military history to follow the progress of the battles.
            To many, this volume offers facts on which to form a better understanding of problems of national
                    security and war. Few people, except those who have had some military service, realize the detailed
                    planning and operations involved in the moving of large masses of troops over thousands of miles of
                    water. Neither do they understand the problems of supply nor those of adequate air and naval
                    support, any one of which improperly coordinated at a critical time spells disaster. For these
                    people, the book is filled with numerous interesting accounts of the American operations in the
                    Guadalcanal area.
            The book makes a valient effort to accord recognition  to all
                    branches of the armed services. Many pages are devoted to the Marine's part in the
                    campaign. The Navy is praised for its heroic performance of duty even to its own extermination, and
                    the services performed by the Air Corps are lauded many times. Wherever possible, individuals are
                    cited for meritorious services. Any member of the armed forces will find that the book contains much
                    information concerning his branch of the service. It will, however, add to his understanding in that
                    he will be brought to the realization that an "American Team" won the campaign.
                    Many parents will find in this work the story of heroism and sacrifice made by their loved ones. It
                    is to be hoped that those who read this volume will resolve that never again will this country be
                    faced by such a war.
            
               Indiana University William D. Miner
         
         
            
               History of the Development of Building Construction in 
                            Chicago
                        
               . By Frank A. Randall. (
                        Urbana
                    , The University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1949, pp. xvi, 398. Illustrations and index. $5.00.)
            This volume is a valuable account of the evolution of building construction in 
                        Chicago
                     from the erection of 
                        Fort Dearborn
                     in 1804, the first structure of consequence in that territory, down to the present day.
            The author, who is a Structural Engineer and a lecturer on the subject at the University of 
                        Illinois
                    , has reviewed this wide field with the accuracy of both an engineer and a historian,
                    and has included in the book carefully compiled records of the materials and methods of construction
                    that were used for many, if not most of the important buildings that have been erected in the
                    downtown area of the city.
            The progress in building before the Great Fire in 1871 is described, from the erection of the first
                    simple frame buildings to the invention of the light strong method of balloon construction for
                    framing which was an important contribution to the framing systems used throughout the world.
            Then came the first buildings of brick, followed by the use of elaborate cast iron fronts on many of
                    the more important structures.
            
            Some of the most pretentious buildings in the business district that were destroyed by the fire were
                    from four to six stories in height. Most of them were less.
            In this fire that lasted for several days and nights, approximately eighteen thousand buildings were
                    destroyed, among them being the Grand Pacific Hotel, six stories in height, then being completed.
                    When rebuilt it was described as the largest hotel in the world.
            After the fire came the search for fire-resisting building materials and then came the revolutionary
                    system of skeleton construction where the weight of the walls is carried to the foundations by a
                    framework of steel. This new system of building was one in which 
                        Chicago
                     engineers and architects were the pioneers.
            Along with the new structural engineering that made possible the erection of skyscrapers, came the
                    development of elevators that provided access to the top floors of the tallest buildings.
            The author describes the studies that were made to provide more secure footings and foundations for
                    the greater weight of the tall new buildings and tells of the methods that were devised, such as the
                    use of wooden piles and concrete caissons.
            Included in the volume are biographies of the leaders in building design and construction from the
                    time of John M. Van Osdel, 
                        Chicago
                    's first architect, who arrived in the town in 1837, down to those who had part
                    in the creation of the marvelously beautiful Columbian Exposition.
            The book is profusely illustrated with full-page pictures that cover the period from before the fire
                    on down to the present time. To the architects and engineers who are engaged in the planning of
                    buildings in the 
                        Chicago
                     area, this will be a valuable reference book. For the average reader, the illustrations
                    alone, giving as they do a continuous pictorial record that covers the period of three-quarters of a
                    century, will be a source of enjoyment.
            
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana Lee Burns
         
         
            
               James Whitcomb Riley as I Knew Him: Real Incidents in the Early Life of
                        America's Beloved Poet. By Minnie Belle Mitchell. (
                        Greenfield
                    , Indiana, The Old Swimmin' Hole Press, 1949, pp. 224. Illustrations.
                    $3.50.)
            
            This is 
                        Greenfield
                     articulate, expressing its devotion to a poet whose memory is regarded as a sacred
                    trust by the author. She links the "motherly little town, to whose apron strings I am still
                    tied," as Riley later described it, so closely with his lifetime labors that all his
                    writing seems to begin and end there. There is some basis for her contention, judging by the
                    subjects of his best-known poems and accepting the story of their origin, herein told in some
                    detail. If she brushes aside his own statement that "The Old Sweetheart" and
                    "Aunt Mary" were composites, she presents an interesting case for her candidates
                    for their prototypes. Riley made no secret of the fact that he drew on the people of 
                        Greenfield
                     for the characters in his verse. She tells us that he did it "with so kindly a
                    humor that none were offended." Certainly he had a deep affection for the people as well as
                    the scenes of his childhood.
            The book emphasizes Riley's gift of mimicry, which, given words, makes the people of whom he
                    wrote ring true. It shows his gift of sensitiveness and imagination being developed by his mother,
                    the focus of his love throughout his life. Mrs. Mitchell pays tribute to his father, his brothers
                    and sisters, other relatives, teachers, neighbors, companions of his childhood and youth, who had
                    their place in his affections. To the pranks and enterprises in which "Bud" Riley
                    played an instigating or ingenious role (he was apparently one of those rare persons able to quicken
                    the imagination of his associates, thereby intensifying his own), she devotes a large proportion of
                    the chapters in her biography, in the belief that "he lived his happy youth to the brim and
                    then spent the remainder of his life telling about it." When, as a grown man and successful
                    poet and recitationist, he began the writing of A Child-World, he is quoted as
                    declaring it one of the happiest tasks of his life because it "was like living his life
                    over."
            Mrs. Mitchell tells of the prodigal's later return to visit his people. The idleness of his
                    youth, with his wanderings as a sign painter, musician and entertainer, she explains: "He
                    was temperamentally unfit for anything but fun making and dreaming." When, after he had
                    achieved fame and honor and riches, his home town tried to draw him back for a public entertainment,
                    he was reluctant, finally admitting that he was afraid of becoming a target for those still living
                         there who had scolded him for his escapades. His relief was
                    great when, at length persuaded, he found a community united in its desire to give him a royal
                    welcome and display their love "for the village idler and scamp who had made a world of
                    friends and had sent his ‘joyous children’ singing down the years."
            The author of these reminiscences had family and town tradition to add to her own acquaintance with
                    the poet. Her Hoosier Boy: James Whitcomb Riley (1942) was one in The
                        Childhood of Famous Americans Series, written for children, weaving together his life and
                    poetry, as she interlaces them in this later book for adults. Only a few incidents strike one as
                    newly presented; to those who have read previous biographies of Riley most of the episodes are
                    familiar. She adds some data to the known list of Riley's published writings, mentioning an
                    early contribution to the 
                        Greenfield
                    
                    Commercial, "Babe McDowell," and quoting some poems from the
                    same periodical, in the 70's: "An Ode" [to 
                        Columbus
                     Jackson] and "An Unexpected Result." Here also appears a poem,
                    written in that period, to be set to music by Ike Davis, the chorus beginning, "Give back
                    the dream that I have known," as well as a jingle, "The Phonograph,"
                    published in the 
                  
                            Hancock
                         Democrat. His opinion of the Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam, (p.
                    210), may have had earlier printing in his collected letters but is not identified. Mrs. Mitchell
                    not only quotes an annotation by him in Drusilla Cravens' copy of the Book of Job, but
                    provides a clue to its publication at some time in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star.
            Those who have a nostalgic longing for life without the complexities of today (usually they expect
                    some of modern comforts!), particularly those who have grown up in the little towns of the Mid West,
                    who do not mind a little sentiment which stops far short of being wearisome, will enjoy this picture
                    of laughing, romping youngsters for its revival of old memories. It is the story of 
                        Greenfield
                     and Riley's love for each other, a romance with the flavor of a past
                    generation, produced for his centennial year.
            
               Indiana Historical Society Dorothy R. Russo
         
         
            
               The Churches and the Social Conscience. By O. T. Binkley (
                        Indianapolis
                    , National Foundation Press, 1948, pp. vii, 39. $1.00) and Missions and the American Mind. By Kenneth Scott Latourette (
                        Indianapolis
                    , National Foundation Press, 1949, pp. vii, 40. $1.00.)
            
            These thin volumes are essays in the Fundamental American Principles Series on
                    Religion published by the nonpartisan, non-sectarian Nationa) Foundation for Education in
                    American Citizenship in an effort to portray the contributions of religion to American life. Both
                    essays are significant contributions by excellent scholars and will contribute materially to the
                    purpose for which they are so fittingly intended.
            In The Churches and the Social Conscience, Professor Binkley points out that
                    religion is a significant social force that not only serves as a means of control but also is an
                    important factor in social change. In the eighteenth century religious fervor spread through the
                    American colonies by means of the Great Awakening, which developed a new social consciousness and
                    stimulated a democratic and humanitarian impulse. The close of the century brought hostility and
                    indifference to religion, largely through the American Revolution and the teachings of Hume and
                    Paine. This period was followed by the Evangelical Awakening which laid bare the evils of slavery,
                    thereby lending strength to the abolition movement. The sale and consumption of liquor were fought
                    incessantly in the conviction that they sharply violated the tenets of Christian morality. Since the
                    Civil War, the "social gospel" movement has sought to answer the problems created
                    by the machine age. At first Unitarian, Congregational, and Episcopal ministers led the fight
                    against social injustices; they were later joined by Presbyterian, Methodist, Baptist, and other
                    ministers. The popes of the Catholic church issued encyclical letters in behalf of the laboring
                    classes.
            Although the churches have encountered strong oppositions in their efforts for social reform, today
                    they stand at their numerical peak in membership yet are playing a somewhat lesser role in American
                    life and are suffering a decline in moral discipline. Professor Binkley, however, staunchly holds to
                    his belief that the Christian conscience is still vigorous and powerful here and in 
                        England
                     where there is "new recognition of the spiritual foundations of
                    democracy."
            
            In Missions and the American Mind, Professor Latour-ette traces the effect of the
                    missionary movement in shaping the American mind, a factor which has been too slightly appreciated.
                    From the first settlement in America, every part of the country had its frontier period, and on
                    every frontier the democratic churches exerted a profound influence. They built schools and
                    colleges, disciplined their own members, exercised a Christian oversight over the community, and
                    shaped the morals of the raw, materialistic Western folk. Missionary efforts in behalf of the
                    immigrant contributed much to the fashioning of his mind and spirit. Although the work was partly
                    financed from Europe, most of the leadership and funds were from the 
                        United States
                    . The chief results of this missionary effort were twofold: a partial retention of the
                    cultural tradition of the countries from which the immigrant came; and, secondly, the faith of many
                    was strengthened through the missionary enterprise. The missions also shaped the attitude of
                    Americans toward both Negroes and Indians and assisted in the adjustments necessary for all to live
                    together in a good society. Beyond question America's foreign missionary enterprises have
                    contributed materially to our better understanding of foreign peoples and lands, removed much of our
                    isolationism, taught us to think in global terms, and advanced our interest in world peace and
                    organization.
            It is true that Christianity is often considered by some "to be a waning factor,"
                    but Professor Latourette insists that its widest application has been most clearly expressed in the
                    twentieth century and that in the future it will have the power to right many wrongs of the past.
            
               Agnes Scott College and Emory University Walter B. Posey
         
         
            
               The Ancient World. By Wallace Everett Caldwell. (
                        New York
                    , Rinehart & Company, Inc., 1949, pp. xvii, 589. Maps, illustrations,
                    bibliography, index, and end maps. $4.25.)
            Professor Caldwell's revision of The Ancient World is a proof of the rapid
                    progress made in the study of several areas of ancient history in the twelve years which have  elapsed since the first edition was published. His first
                    chapter, "Preliterary History," has been drastically rewritten to incorporate
                    recent revolutionary discoveries, while in the second, "The Early Orient," he has
                    altered the chronology to conform to the recent hypotheses of Albright, Poebel, and others. Early
                    Hebrew history (pp. 98-103) appears to have undergone some revision, while at the end a short
                    section has been added to provide a framework for the treatment of the later Roman Empire. Lesser
                    revisions in other parts of the book need not be mentioned individually. It has been brought up to
                    date, but its basic character has not been greatly changed.
            To cover so extensive a field in one short volume, space had to be conserved somewhere; and the
                    author has chosen to do so by compressing his treatment of political history. His judgment in this
                    matter is not always easy to follow. Thus he devotes nearly three pages to a resume of
                    Livy's charming but largely unhistorical account of the seven kings of 
                        Rome
                    , but only four pages (344-348) to the Roman conquest of 
                        Italy
                    , about which much more is known and the importance of which is so much greater than
                    that of the legendary period. But somehow or other he saves space enough to treat institutions, art,
                    literature, and everyday life briefly but adequately, and to quote ancient sources rather
                    extensively.
            There are not many errors of fact, and controversial opinions are not unpleasantly numerous or
                    apparent. Yet one does find it difficult to accept the story of Abraham as fully as Professor
                    Caldwell has done, although he has some rather respectable authority on his side. Likewise, this
                    reviewer cannot agree that Aristeides, Cimon, and Aeschylus were members of the oligarchic party
                    which stood for the overthrow of democracy in 
                        Athens
                     and elsewhere. Rather, they seem to have been loyal but conservative democrats,
                    supporters of the constitution of Cleisthenes, but opposed to the radical reforms which were being
                    agitated in their time. In the matter of arrangement, one may question the advisability of lumping
                    the whole of Hebrew history from the Babylonian Captivity to Titus' destruction of
                    Jerusalem (539 B.C.–70 A.D.) in chapter XXIII, "Institutions of the Early
                    Empire." But this is not to criticize the book as a whole. If the history of the ancient
                    Mediterranean world, both political and cultural,  had to be
                    treated in the narrow space of 530 pages, then Professor Caldwell has accomplished a notable feat,
                    for which he is entitled to much credit.
            Nineteen maps and thirty-eight single illustrations or plates are included in the book. The maps
                    appear adequate. Of the illustrations, two deal with prehistory, sixteen with oriental, Minoan, or
                    Mycenean themes, twelve with the history and civilization of 
                        Greece
                    , one with the Etruscans, and seven with Roman or early Christian history. Three tables
                    of dates, a classified bibliography, and an index of twenty-six pages provide the necessary
                    auxiliaries for readers of the work.
            
               
                  
                            Ohio
                         Wesleyan University Clifton E. Van Sickle
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            Names from the Past
            
               Francis Jennings*
            Midway between 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Louisville
                     high on the Indiana bank of the Ohio River and in the shadow of
                    the beautiful hills of 
                        Switzerland County
                     is the old town of 
                        Vevay
                     settled by courageous Swiss men and women in 1813. Later others also crossed the ocean
                    and made the weary trip to settle in the southern Indiana town. From the epitaphs in the 
                        Vevay
                     cemetery, it is evident that many chose to spend the remainder of their life in the new
                    country. Among the inscriptions here reproduced from the old section of the cemetery are the names
                    of both foreign and native-born men and women. 
                        John F. Dufour founder of 
                                Vevay
                             Indiana born in Montrieux 
                                Switzerland
                             May 15, 1783 came to the U.S. in 1801 he was married to Mary
                            "Polly" Critchefield in Garrard Co Ky. They moved to the Territory of
                            Indiana in 1809. He died in 1850
                        Mary Dufour his wife was Born in Surry Co. N C. in 1789 Died 1850
                        John Critchfield, a soldier of the Revolution Born in 
                                New Jersey
                             1752 he emigrated to 
                                North Carolina
                             in 1763, to the Territory of Indiana in 1803 and died in 1841
                        John Dumont. Born in 
                                New Brunswick
                            
                            
                                N.J.
                             Jan 8, A.d. 1787 and married to Julia L. Corey in 
                                Greenfield
                             N.Y. Aug 12, 1812 he settled in 
                                Vevay
                             Indiana A.D. 1813, where he continued to reside until his death, which occurred
                            Feb 2. 1871 He was a learned able and upright Lawyer a Capable, courteous and incorruptible
                            [officer] a wise far-seeing patriotic Legislator who preferred the general weal, to his own
                            popularity and through life a citizen of great public spirit. Devoted to the cause of
                            education morality and freedom. He thus filled all the stations in life, to which he was
                            called, with advantage to others and honor to himself.
                        Julia L Dumont his wife died Jan 2, 1857 aged 62 years
                        Martha Manvill mother of Julia L Dumont died June 2, 1849 aged 85 years
                        Linda wife of Wm Shaw. Daughter of James and Elizabeth Rous Born in 
                                Yorkshire
                            , 
                                England
                             Dec 6 1805. Died in 
                                Vevay
                            , Indiana April 4, 1892
                        Daniel Dufour Born in 
                                Switzerland
                             1765 came to the U.S. in 1801 Died in 1855
                        Frances E. his wife Born in 
                                Switzerland
                             1765 came to the U.S. in 1801 Died in 1865
                        Samuel Protsman Born 1797 died 1875
                        
                     * Francis Jennings is a resident of 
                                    Vevay
                                , Indiana.
                  
                        
                        Jemima Prostman Born 1806 Died 1872
                        Rev. J. D. Griffith Born in 
                                Switzerland County
                             Indiana Dec 11, 1823 Died Jan 2 1905
                        Caroline Vernon Griffith Bom in Stokes Co. N.C. Nov 3, 1827 Died Feb 23, 1908
                        Charles G. Boerner Bom in Artern, Kingdom of Prussia, 
                                Germany
                             1827. Died 1900
                        F. L. Grisard Born in the Canton of Berne 
                                Switzerland
                             1803 came to 
                                Vevay
                             Ind in 1818 died in 1881
                        Zellie Grisard Born in the Canton of Neuchatel 
                                Switzerland
                             1807 Came to 
                                Vevay
                             Indiana in 1823 Died 1892
                        Jean Daniel Moreod Born in 
                                Switzerland
                            , Europe 1769 Died 1838
                        Charles Amie Thieubaud, was Born in The Canton of Neuchatel, 
                                Switzerland
                             in 1800 Died in 1871
                        Thomas Jager, a native of 
                                England
                            . Died in 1870 aged 66 yrs 4 ms 27 ds
                        Ann E. wife of Julius Dufour and only Daughter of Jas. and Nancy Malin 1822 died 1856
                        Philip Bettens Died June 22, 1844 aged 35 years
                        Charlotte wife of Philip Bettens Died Dec 24, 1875. Aged 66 years
                        Henry Weales Born in 
                        London, England
                     . Oct 9, 1824 Died June 7, 1904
                        Martha Weales Bom in 
                                Chatham
                            , 
                                England
                            . Oct 7. 1827. Died Sept 14. 1897
                        Robert Le Clerc. Bom in 
                                Detroit
                                Michigan
                             Aug 22, 1809 Died July 22. 1856
                        Ira A. Mendenhall. Died July 8, A.D. 1845 aged 16 years
                        Julius McMakin Died at Luna, Ark. Oct 20. 1877 aged 37. years
                        U. P. Schenck Born in the Canton of Neuchatel 
                                Switzerland
                             May 16, 1811. Died in 
                                Vevay
                             Ind Nov 16. 1884. Justine his wife Born in the Canton of Neuchatel May 29, 1809
                            Died in 
                                Vevay
                             Indiana Feb. 17. 1889
                        Jesse Teats, Born in Adelphia Ross Co. 
                                Ohio
                             June 19, 1816 Died Dec 17. 1868
                        Owen Todd. Died Dec 6, 1817 aged 55 years
                        Elisha Golay Bom in 
                                Switzerland
                             Europe Oct 17. 1783 Died April 30. 1866.
                        Susanne Golay his wife Born in 
                                Switzerland
                             Europe. Oct 5. 1785. Died Dec 26. 1865. Both came to the U. S. in 1801
                        Henry Stucy Born in Canton Glarus 
                                Switzerland
                            , Jany. 14. 1815. Died May 16. 1843
                        Afra Stucy, Born in Canton Glarus, 
                                Switzerland
                             Dec. 22. 1815. Died Jany. 5. 1894
                        R. Stearman Died July 27, 1882. Aged 71 years
                        Levi B. Christie Died Aug. 28. 1877 aged 49 years
                        Ralph Brown Bom Sept 29. 1808 Died Feb 14. 1899. Sarah Brown Sept 11. 1810. died March 6,
                            1897.
                        Samuel Ward. Bom in 
                                Fulton
                             Co. 
                                New York
                             (Died) Jan 17. 1824— Aged 26 years
                        Frederick L. Thieubaud. Died Dec 24, A D. 1846 Aged 79 years. He emigrated from 
                                Switzerland
                             A.D. 1817.
                    
            
         
         
         
            Query 133
            Anyone having information regarding descendants of early settlers in western 
                        Virginia
                    , and particularly around Morgantown, West 
                        Virginia
                    , along the Monongahela River and South Branch of the Potomac,
                        Jackson's River and Lost River in 
                        Virginia
                     especially if related to Scott families please contact
            Miss Helen A. Wesp R.F.D. 16 – Box 382
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     44, Indiana
            Query 134
            I should like correspondence on the following "Hill Men of Indiana:"
            
                Aaron S. Hill of 
                            Tippecanoe County
                         mustered in Company D, 150th Regiment Indiana Infantry, February 17, 1865.
                Abel Shephard Hill 1808-1882 m. Almira Usher.
                Lt. Abram Hill of 
                            Aurora
                        , Indiana, commissioned Civil War, August 9, 1861.
                Abram C. Hill of 
                            Mooresville
                        , Indiana, mustered in Company E, 12th Regiment Indiana Infantry.
                Adam Hill m. Maria Barbey October 21, 1848, at 
                            Allen County
                        , Indiana.
                Adam Hill m. Rebecca Pruitt October 9, 1851, at 
                            Bartholomew County
                        , Indiana.
                Adam Kerr Hill 1848-1926 m. Ella S. Worley.
                Adoniram J. Hill of 
                            Decatur
                        , Indiana, commissioned First Lieutenant 89th Regiment Indiana Volunteers, August
                        16, 1862.
                Albert Hill m. Mollie T. Prather January 4, 1877, at 
                            Bartholomew County
                        , Indiana.
                Alfred Hill m. Jane E. Spencer September 25, 1864 at 
                            Adams County
                        , Indiana.
                Alfred Hill of 
                            Connersville
                        , Indiana, mustered in Company I, 84th Regiment Indiana Infantry, August 12, 1862.
                Captain Allen Hill of 
                            Paris
                        , Indiana, commissioned Civil War August 30, 1861.
                Adjutant Allen Hill of 
                            Carthage
                        , Indiana, commissioned Civil War January 20, 1865.
            
            Edwin B. Hill 5421 
                        Broadway
                  
                        Indianapolis
                     20, Indiana
         
      
   
