
     ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 102, Issue 1, pages 1-86. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:102+issue:1+year:2006&browseMode=source
    
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
            
            
        
        
            
            
                A Young Hoosier's Adventures on the Mississippi
                        River
                
                DAWN E. BAKKEN
                
                    The instance of a young man of enterprize and standing,
                        as a merchant, trader, planter, or even farmer, who has
                        not made at least one trip to 
                            New Orleans
                         is uncommon …. Every principal farmer along
                        the great water courses builds and sends to 
                            New Orleans
                         the produce of his farm in a flat boat.
                        Thus a great proportion of the males of the West… have
                        made this passage to 
                            New Orleans
                        … . They have experienced that expansion of
                        mind which cannot fail to be produced by traversing long
                        distances of country, and viewing different forms of
                        nature and society. Every boat, that has descended from 
                            Pittsburgh
                        , or the 
                            Missouri
                        , to 
                            New Orleans
                        , could publish a journal of no
                        inconsiderable interest. Rev. Timothy Flint, 18281
                    
                
                On December 20, 1834, a flatboat carrying 14,000 pounds of
                    barrelpacked pork and beef, more than 350 chickens, and a
                    variety of other agricultural products set off down the
                        Wabash River headed to 
                        New Orleans
                    . Among the five crew members was
                    twenty-two-year-old Asbury C. Jaquess of 
                        Posey County
                    , Indiana, who kept a journal of the voyage.
                    Jaquess, like thousands of other young men, took the
                    opportunity to leave family and farm for a few months, to
                    see places to which he 
                        
                            1 Timothy C. Flint, A Condensed Geography and History of the
                                Western States, or the Mississippi
                                    Valley
                             (1828; reprint, 
                                Gainesville
                            , Fl., 1970), quoted in Michael Allen,
                                Western Rivermen, 1763 1861: 
                                Ohio
                             and 
                                Mississippi
                            
                            Boatmen and the My th of the Alligator
                                Horse (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , La., 1990), 170.
                    
                    
                    
                        The first page of Asburyjaquess's
                            journal Courtesy Judith Lindell
                    
                     had never gone (and might
                    never go again), and to experience the adventures of life
                    along the Mississippi River.
                Asbury's desire to travel and see something of the wider
                    world beyond the Wabash Valley may have
                    come to him from his father. At the age of 12, Jonathan
                    Jaquess, Jr., left his home in 
                        New Jersey
                     and signed on as a cabin boy on a trading
                    vessel. He eventually rose to command his own ship and was
                    trading in the Caribbean when the Revolutionary War began.
                    Jaquess served in a 
                        New Jersey
                     regiment and fought in several major battles.
                    In 1789, Jaquess moved with his second wife Esther and their
                    three children from 
                        New Jersey
                     to the 
                        Kentucky
                     frontier. Esther soon gave birth to a fourth
                    child, but she and the infant both died during the family's
                    first year in 
                        Kentucky
                    . In 1791 Jaquess married widowed Rebekah Fraser
                    Rankin. The couple went on to have nine children, and by
                    1811, looking for more land for his own family and for other
                    relatives who had settled nearby, Jaquess and a group of men
                    bought a large tract of land in 
                        Posey County
                    , Indiana. In 1815 the extended family group of
                    forty-four people moved from 
                        Kentucky
                     to Indiana; at the time of the move Jonathan
                    and Rebekah's youngest child, Asbury Cloud, was only three
                    years old.2
                
                Jonathan Jaquess, Jr., in addition to being a successful
                    farmer, became the first storekeeper in the township. As
                    Jonathan and Rebekah's children grew and married, their
                    father gave each of them a quarter-section of land. Sometime
                    in the early 1830s, according to family histories, several
                    families "formed themselves into a band for mutual benefit
                    and welfare."3 They combined all of
                    their crops and animal products for an entire growing year
                    and decided to float the lot down to 
                        New Orleans
                     in search of new markets and greater profits.
                    It was this decision, acted upon in the year 1834, that also
                    sent twenty-two-year-old Asbury Jaquess on a journey from 
                        Posey County
                    , Indiana, to the port of 
                        New Orleans
                    .
                By the time the Davy Crockett floated out
                    into the Wabash River and headed
                    towards the 
                        Ohio
                    , flatboats were among the most common vessels
                    on the major rivers of the frontier. The first flatboats
                    probably plied the 
                        Ohio
                     in the 1780s; by the end of the first decade of
                    the 1800s 
                        
                            2 Information on the Jaquess
                            family comes from "Highlights from the Jaquess
                            Files," typescript in the possession of Judith
                            Lindell, DeTour, 
                                Michigan
                            ; The Fraser Clan in
                                America (
                                Evansville
                            , Ind., 1916); W. P. Leonard, History and Directory of 
                                    Posey County
                                
                             (
                                Evansville
                            , Ind., 1882).
                        
                            3
                            History of 
                                    Posey County
                                , 89; Fraser
                            Clan, 10.
                    
                     more than 1,000 such
                    vessels arrived in 
                        New Orleans
                     every year.4 The boats
                    could carry large amounts of cargo and were easy and
                    relatively cheap to build.5 The arrival
                    of steamboats in 1823 only increased the popularity of
                    flatboats among entrepreneurs and farmers: a steamboat
                    voyage from 
                        New Orleans
                     was a much quicker way home than a long trek by
                    foot or on horseback.
                Jaquess and his crewmates were also the beneficiaries of
                    thirty years of writing about the 
                        Ohio
                     and Mississippi Rivers and
                    a decade of federal and state government improvements to aid
                    navigation. In 1801, Zadok Cramer published The
                        Navigator, a small volume which was improved and
                    republished on a regular basis until 1824; Samuel Cumings
                    then began publishing The Western Pilot
                    based on Cramer's work, and by the 1834 the crew of the Davy Crockett would have had access to a
                    yearly update. Each edition of the book detailed the bends
                    and turns in the rivers, pointed out navigational
                    difficulties, described towns and cities, and broke the
                    voyage down by numbering each island in the rivers.6 Jaquess's journal follows these
                    numbers as the Davy Crockett begins its
                    trip down the 
                        Mississippi
                    .
                The flatboat that Jaquess's group sailed was on the large end
                    of the common size range: 80 feet long and 17 feet wide
                    (width usually ranged from 12 to 20 feet; length from 20 to
                    100 feet). The boat, like all flatboats, was steered with
                    three large oars: the pilot controlled the main steering oar
                    at the aft, and two large sweeps extended from the port and
                        starboard.7 The Davy
                        Crockett carried a mixed cargo, also common for the
                    time: mostly corn and oats, packed beef and pork, and live
                    chickens and turkeys. There were regional differences in
                    boats' freight: flatboats 
                        
                            4 See Table 4, "Annual Arrivals
                            of Flatboats at 
                                New Orleans
                            , 1806-57," in Erik E Haites, James Mak,
                            and Gary M. Walton, Western River
                                Transportation: The Era of Early Internal
                                Development, 1810-1860 (
                                Baltimore
                            , Md., 1975), 21.
                        
                            5 Scholars put the cost of
                            building an average flatboat at $1.00 to $1.50 per
                            foot; Scheiber (below) estimates that a family group
                            could build a boat in six weeks. See Leland D.
                            Baldwin, The Keelboat Age on Western
                                Waters (1941; 
                                Pittsburgh
                            , Penn., 1980), 54; Harry N. Scheiber,
                            "The 
                                Ohio
                            -
                                Mississippi
                             Flatboat Trade: Some Reconsiderations,"
                            in David M. Ellis, ed., The Frontier in
                                American Development: Essays in Honor of Paul
                                Wallace Gates (
                                Ithaca
                            , N.Y., 1969), 278-79.
                        
                            6 On Cramer, see Baldwin, The Keelboat Age, 57-59; on
                            government improvements to navigation, see Allen,
                                Western Rivermen, 157-60.
                        
                            7 For diagrams of flatboat
                            construction, see Donald E Carmony, ed., "Flatboat
                            Building on Little Raccoon Creek, 
                                Parke County
                            , Indiana," Indiana
                                Magazine of History 60 (December 1964),
                            305-322.
                    
                     from just south of the
                        Ohio River in 
                        Kentucky
                     often carried whisky and tobacco.8
                
                Nearly every evening, when the flatboat pulled out of the
                    currents of the river and retired for a quiet evening along
                    the banks, Asbury sat down to write in a small bound
                    journal. He began most entries with the distance the boat
                    had traveled during the day, the time it had left its
                    morning site, and the time the crew finally arrived at rest
                    for the evening. He noted contact with fellow travelers,
                    sights along the rivers, and the steadily increasing flow of
                    goods sold and traded. From time to time, the Davy Crockett lashed onto another flatboat,
                    mostly, it would seem, for companionship and better cooking.
                    And there was time for recreation, especially music, on days
                    when the boat was floating peacefully downriver.9 On two occasions, the violent culture
                    which sometimes persisted along the river caught Jaquess's
                    attention. He recorded the death of Mike, the steward of
                    another boat to which the Davy Crockett
                    had briefly lashed, and he wrote in detail about the
                    execution of a black man in Natchez.10
                
                Jaquess seems to have learned the business aspects of river
                    trading quickly. His journal reveals the daily calculations
                    made by the farmer flatboatman, as he compared his costs and
                    need for profit against the ever-changing market prices for
                    his products. And as Michael Allen points out, farmers like
                    the Jaquesses had to proceed with particular care because
                    they did not possess the capital of businessmen who
                    regularly traded along the rivers: 
                        A little bad luck or a glutted market could ruin
                            them. Moreover, their farming work at home limited
                            them to one flatboat trip a year. Thus, the most a
                            farmer flatboatman could hope for was enough extra
                            cash to make a land payment or finance a few 
                                
                                    8 See Baldwin, The Keclboat Age, chapter
                                    2, "Boats and Boatbuilding"; for an example
                                    of a 
                                        Kentucky
                                     flatboat's cargo, see John G.
                                    Stuart, "A Journal, Remarks or Observations
                                    in a Voyage Down the 
                                        Kentucky, Ohio
                                    , Mississippi
                                    Rivers & c," Register of the 
                                        Kentucky
                                         Historical Society 50
                                    (January 1952), 5-6.
                                
                                    9 Baldwin regards music
                                    as having been an "indispensable" part of
                                    life for early flatboat men; The Keelboat Age, 90-93.
                                
                                    10 See Thomas C.
                                    Buchanan, "Race and (In)justice on the 
                                        Mississippi
                                    : An Episode from the Journals
                                    of the Davy Crockett," in this issue. Allen
                                    provides contrasting chapters on pre- and
                                    post-steamboat river cities; see Western Rivermen, chaps. 2
                                    and 5.
                            
                            
                            
                                Asbury C. Jaquess in later life
                                    Courtesy Judith Lindell
                            
                             improvements on
                            his farm. In the volatile world of post-1823
                            flatboat entrepreneurs, farmer flatboatmen
                            constituted the populous but vulnerable lower rungs
                            of the business ladder."
                    
                
                According to family history, the voyage of the Davy Crockett was profitable-profitable enough to
                    attempt a similar shipment the next winter. Unfortunately,
                    this flatboat, whose name has not been preserved, foundered
                    before it reached the 
                        Mississippi
                    . The Jaquess family seems never to have
                    attempted the trip again. In April 1838 Asbury married Jane
                    Ashworth and settled down to become a 
                        Posey County
                     farmer and a pillar of the local Methodist
                    church. The couple had ten children, seven of whom survived
                    to adulthood. Their son Wilbur joined the 91st Indiana
                    Volunteer Infantry Regiment and died during the Civil War.
                    Jane died before her son, in 1859.12
                
                The 1870 census of 
                        Posey County
                    , Indiana, finds Asbury C. Jaquess still working
                    his farm, having survived the death of his second wife (Jane
                    Smythe, to whom he was married from 1867 to 1870), and
                    living with his four youngest children-Rebecca, Ogden,
                    Florence, and Jonathan-and a hired farm worker. The
                    children, who ranged in age from 21 to 13, all worked with
                    their father, either in house work or farm work.13
                
                Asbury C. Jaquess died at the age of 82 in March 1895, still
                    in 
                        Posey County
                    , Indiana. He was remembered as "one of the
                    leading and most advanced farmers of his day," and "a man
                    eminently of peace … generous and liberal to a fault."
                    Twenty years later, at a family reunion held on the original
                    1815 farmstead, he was remembered as the history keeper of
                    the family.14 Modern readers are
                    fortunate that, in addition to family papers, Asbury Jaquess
                    preserved the little journal that chronicled the voyage of
                    the Davy Crockett.
                
                
                    
                        11
                        Allen, Western Rivermen, 179.
                    
                        12 "Highlights from the Jaquess
                        Files"; The Fraser Clan. Jane was the
                        daughter of Moses Ashworth, the first appointed
                        Methodist circuit rider in Indiana. See John E.
                        Iglehart, "The Life and Times of John Shrader: Including
                        the Introduction and Progress of Methodism in Southern
                        Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        17 (March 1921), esp. 16-18.
                    
                        13 Manuscript Census, U.S., Ninth
                        Census, 1870, 
                            Posey County
                        , Indiana, Heritage Quest Online,
                        http://heritagequestonline.com.
                    
                        14 Newspaper clipping in the
                        possession of Judith Lindell; The Fraser
                            Clan, 7, 10.
                
            
            
            
                "The Journals of the Davy Crockett commencing December
                    20th 1834
                BY ASBURY C JAQUESS OF POSEY CO. INDIANA—"
                
                    
                        
                            
                                Having finished taking in our loading we set
                                    sail from John Robbertson's on the 20 Day of
                                    December 1834 for 
                                        New
                                        Orleans
                                    . Our boat was 80 feet long
                                    & 17 feet wide. She had about 1700
                                    bushels of corn on bord also 11,000 weight
                                    of pork, 3 thousand weight of beef in
                                    barrels, 6 large steers, 15 bushels of oats,
                                    40 kegs of lard, 30 dozen of chickens
                                    & 40 Turkeys. She had five hands on
                                    deck, viz Christopher 
                                        Editors' note: This journal passed
                                        from one generation to another until
                                        it reached the possession of Judith
                                        Lindell of DeTour, 
                                        Michigan
                                        , who consented to make
                                        it available for publication in the
                                        IMH. The
                                        editors would also like to thank Ms.
                                        Lindell for providing genealogical
                                        information on the family and the
                                        photograph of Asburyjaquess which
                                        appears in the introduction.
                                        The author's original spelling has
                                        been maintained, with the exceptions
                                        that follow. All place names and
                                        proper names have been capitalized.
                                        Jaquess always capitalized AM and PM
                                        but did not use periods
                                        consistently-we have done so. We
                                        have not added periods to
                                        abbreviations such as viz and lb.
                                        Jaquess's only structuring was the
                                        daily entry, which we have kept.
                                        Within entries there is almost no
                                        punctuation, and therefore sentences
                                        have been created and periods added.
                                        Occasional commas have been inserted
                                        inside sentences for clarity.
                                        A few words have been corrected
                                        for clarity. The added letters are
                                        enclosed in square brackets [ ).
                                        Jaquess sometimes repeated a word
                                        from one line to another, and we
                                        have eliminated those repetitions.
                                        Jaquess occasionally smudged over
                                        words he seemed to want to exclude
                                        and then continued his sentence. We
                                        have silently made these exclusions.
                                        We have also silently corrected
                                        Jaquess's numbers, which sometimes
                                        used periods and commas
                                        interchangeably.
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                        A sketch of a flatboat
                                        The artis clearly shows the large
                                        steering rudder aft and the two
                                        sweeps forward. Courtesy, Bass Photo
                                        Collection, Indiana Historical
                                        Society
                                     Ashworth, steersman &
                                    pilot; Adam G. Ashworth, Captain; Benjamin
                                    Acuff, Bowsman; Jackson Ashworth, Cook;
                                    Asbury C. Jaquess, Clerk &
                                    Journalist of the voyage.1
                                
                                Dec 20 With the above lading and equipment we
                                    set sail at half pas 4 P.M. droped down 2
                                    miles & landed on the Illinoise side
                                    at sun down 1 mile above the Little 
                                        Wabash
                                     mouth under a large stooping
                                    sycamore in deep edy watter.
                                21st Loosed cable half hour by sun A.M.
                                    landed at Thom Bucks at 12 with the
                                    intention of taking in more corn but failed
                                    in getting it. We put out again at 1 oclock.
                                    While we were lay ing there John B. More
                                    passd us. We arived at the mouth of the 
                                        Wabash
                                     at 3 oclock and found it
                                    falling vary fast. We landed at Roily (a
                                    small town on the Kentuck side) at sun down
                                    in shallow watter. 2 steam boats pased at
                                    dusk.
                                22nd Monday Put out at 4 oclock A.M. pased
                                    Shawnee at Day break (a small town on the
                                    Illinoise side). We had the pleasure to day
                                    of seeing some of the most stupendious
                                    scenes in nature. Of the west we pased
                                    Batterry Rock first on the right hand shore.
                                    It rises to the heighth of 
                                        
                                        1 Christopher
                                        Ashworth is probably Asbury's
                                        brother-in-law, the second husband
                                        of his older sister Elizabeth. In
                                        1838 Asbury married Christopher's
                                        older sister Jane.
                                    
                                     200 feet
                                    with a perpendicular bluff presenting to the
                                    astonished beholder a front of sollid rock
                                    1/2 mile in length. A. G. Ashworth &
                                    I got in our canoe, pased imediately under
                                    the battery and landed at the mouth of the
                                    celebrated ‘cave in rock’. We entered it and
                                    found it to be about 50 yards in length, 10
                                    in breath & about 15 feet in height
                                    with an arched roof. The floor gently rises
                                    as you advance to the fartherest part of it.
                                    When you speak your voise rings harmoniously
                                    & the names of thousands are written
                                    & engravd in this cavern2-our boat pased close
                                    by the head of Huricane Island and we landed
                                    on the right side of the river at sun down
                                    in shallow watter and rocky shore. 5 other
                                    Indiana boats landed by us here. We fell in
                                    company with Joseph Jolly.
                                23rd Tuesday Loosed cable at 1/2 past 4 A.M.
                                    when we got within 2 1/2 miles of Goleonda.
                                    I took the canoe and went on a head to see
                                    John Taylor but I could not hear any thing
                                    of him. We landed 1/2 hour by sun on the 
                                        Ky
                                    side in deep watter 1 mile
                                    & a 1/2 above Dog Island. Jolly
                                    landed just below us. We have the appearance
                                    of bad wether.
                                24 Dec. Shoved off at 7 oclock A.M. lashed
                                    with Jolleys boat and floted together till
                                    sundown. Landed on the Illinoise side on a
                                    gravel & shelving shore. We pased
                                    the mouth of Cumberland
                                    River to day. There is a town
                                    just below the mouth called Smithland. We
                                    also pased the mouth of Tennissee River. At
                                    the mouth of it is Paduka a vary flourishing
                                    little town. It has been founded only about
                                    5 or 6 years. This has been a vary
                                    isagreeable day raining continualy &
                                    the wind blowing up stream. We landed at
                                    Fort Massac but the rema[i]ns of the fort is
                                    not to be seen3- 25th
                                    Christmas We shoved off from Fort Massac at
                                    1/2 past five. Floted down 3 miles when the
                                    winds beat us on the 
                                        Ky
                                    shore in deep edy watter. he
                                    wind blowed up stream all day & the
                                    white caps have been flying continualy. We
                                    had for our christmas dinner the shank of a
                                    shoulder, some dried pumpkins, corn dodger
                                    & coffee.
                                Dec 26 This has been a vary windy day. Tis
                                    said that the wind blows more at &
                                    near Fort Massac than at any point of the 
                                        Ohio
                                    . We loosed cable at 10 A.M.,
                                    pased the Grand Chain which is on the right
                                    shore 
                                        
                                        2 The
                                        "Cave-in-Rock" was, according to
                                        nineteenth-century folklore, the
                                        home of river pirates, but Michael
                                        Allen has found that even in the
                                        early years of the century, the cave
                                        was primarily "a natural curiosity
                                        and tourist attraction." Michael
                                        Allen, Western
                                        Rivermen, 1763-1861: 
                                        Ohio
                                         and 
                                        Mississippi
                                        
                                        Boatmen and the Myth of
                                        the Alligator Horse (
                                        Baton
                                        Rouge
                                        , La., 1990), 40.
                                        
                                        3 Fort Massiac
                                        was built by the French in 1757.
                                        Passed from British to American
                                        hands, and renamed Fort Massac, it
                                        was used until 1814. Settlers
                                        stripped the fort for building
                                        materials, so that passers-by such
                                        as Jaquess would not have been able
                                        to see the remains.
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                        "Cave-in-Rock; View on
                                        the 
                                        Ohio
                                        ," by Karl Bodmer Bodmer
                                        records the traffic on the river and
                                        shows one boat stopping to visit the
                                        cave. Courtesy, Karl Bodmer Print
                                        Collection, Indiana Historical
                                        Society
                                     about dark. There is a steam boat
                                    sunk on the head of the chain. We pased New
                                    America at about 10 oclock at night
                                    & pased Trinity at 12 &
                                    landed at the mouth on the right shore in
                                    deep edy water at 2 oclock A.M. In
                                    attempting to land Grenade Ashworth saw a
                                    narow risk of losing his life.4 In attempting to cable he
                                    slipped off of a log that was lying at shore
                                    where the watter was vary deep. He fell on
                                    the side next the boat which jamed up
                                    against the log and caught him but
                                    fortunately he escaped with but litle
                                    injury.
                                27th Loosed cable at day light. We soon
                                    entered the Missippi. Found her vary low but
                                    rising a little with a current much stronger
                                    than that of the 
                                        Ohio
                                    . We pased the Iron Banks which
                                    is on the left bank, also the Chalk Bank on
                                    the left and landed at the head of No 6 half
                                    hour by sun in deep edy watter on the right
                                        shore.5 We had some
                                    vary hard pulling to keep off of the shore
                                    & snags.
                                
                                    
                                        4 The captain, named
                                        here variously as Adam, A. G., and
                                        Grenade, was probably pilot Christopher
                                        Ashworth's younger brother.
                                    
                                        5 The numbering
                                        system for islands in the river was
                                        developed by Zadok Cramer for his
                                        guidebook, The
                                        Navigator; see the
                                    introduction.
                                
                                
                                Dec 28 Loosed from No 6 at 8 oclock A.M. and
                                    landed at the foot of No 9 half hour by sun
                                    at a beautiful landing on the 
                                        Ky
                                    side in edy watter. We have seen
                                    the fish flouncing in the eddy &
                                    have set out our hooks. This has been a vary
                                    disagreable day. The wind blew considerable
                                    & has been drisling rain.
                                29th Shoved off from No 9 at day light
                                    & pased New Madrid at 12 oclock. It
                                    is situated on the right shore ‘Misouri’.
                                    The earth below town & particular
                                    back of town has been sunk several feet by
                                    Earth Quakes.6 We landed
                                    at the foot of No 13 at tolerable good
                                    landing. We caught 3 beautiful catfish, 2
                                    weighed 18 lb a piece, the other 10 pounds.
                                Dec 30th Let loos from No 13 at day light
                                    & landed below the point of
                                    Needham's Cutoff at dusk at a beautiful
                                    landing. Several boats are lying just below
                                    us. The river formerly had a large bend at
                                    this place runing round 12 or 15 miles
                                    & returning within 50 yards from
                                    where it started. Needham was boating at the
                                    time it broke through. Tis said that he and
                                    his hands when they saw the river busst
                                    through the Banks left their boat &
                                    escaped to the shore. The boat pased through
                                    safe.
                                31st Put out at day break from the point.
                                    Passed Plumb Point, also the first Chickasaw
                                    Bluffs, & landed oposite the head of
                                    No 34 on the Arkensaw side at sun down in
                                    deep gentle water. This has been the first
                                    fair day since we set sail. It has generaly
                                    been cloudy, rainy & windy. This is
                                    New Years eve & we have been hearing
                                    the reports of fire arms celebrating the
                                    ocasion. We had the pleasure this evening of
                                    selling 10.37 1/2$ of bacon, at 6 cents per
                                    lb.
                                January 1st 1835. Loosed cable at day break.
                                    Passed the 2nd Chicksaw Bluffs which is on
                                    the Tennissee side. Under the bluff is a
                                    small villiage called 
                                        Randolph
                                    . We were forced to land at
                                    about 1 oclock P.M. The wind blew so hard
                                    that we could not run. The landing was vary
                                    difficult to make, the watter was so swift
                                    & the wind against us.7
                                
                                
                                    
                                        6 The New Madrid
                                        earthquakes of 1811-1812 were a series
                                        of major quakes (three of which have
                                        been estimated at 8 or more on the
                                        modern Richter scale) and hundreds of
                                        subsequent aftershocks. The earth
                                        movement was strong enough to alter the
                                        course of the Mississippi
                                        River. See Norma Hayes
                                        Bagnall, On Shaky Ground:
                                        The New Madrid Earthquakes of
                                        1811-1812 (
                                        Columbia
                                        , Mo., 1996).
                                    
                                        7 Flatboats were
                                        able to run in many types of weather,
                                        but not in high winds and severe storms,
                                        which could render the boats unsteerable
                                        and lead, in the worst instances, to
                                        loss of cargo and/or the lives of the
                                        crew. See Leland D. Baldwin, The Keelboat Age on Western
                                        Waters (1941; 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                        , Penn., 1980),
                                    81-82.
                                
                                
                                
                                    A map of a section of the
                                        Mississippi
                                        River from Zadok Kramer, The Nagivator (1808)
                                        Courtesy, Filson Club Historical
                                    Society
                                
                                
                                2nd Put out at day light but had to land at
                                    the head of No 37 on the Tennissee side at
                                    10 oclock A.M. on acount of the fog. This
                                    has been the most disagreable day that we
                                    have experienced since we started. It has
                                    rained incessently all day and the winds
                                    have been vary high. Pased the 2nd Chicksaw
                                    Bluffs but they lay behind an island so that
                                    they canot be seen from the main channel.
                                3rd Lay by for wind. The wind blew last night
                                    vary hard all night. It has turned extremely
                                    cold but we to day lay in a good store of
                                    wood to meet the storm. We had the pleasure
                                    to day of meeting with some of our hoosier
                                    friends. Mrr. Cleveland, Murphy, Downey,
                                    Cale & Mr E. Meritt. I and Capt.
                                    Ashworth had the pleasure to day of taking
                                    dinner on bord their vessel. We fared
                                    sumptuously. Our dinner consisted chiefly of
                                    potatoes, fowls & chicken broth.
                                    They say Mike (who is their steward) keeps
                                    them in fresh meet vary regular, that he
                                    presented them with a dozen fowls last
                                    night, & they say he has been so
                                    kind as to find them in fowls ever since
                                    they left the ‘rock in cave.’ They talk of
                                    lashing with us. We hope that Mike will be
                                    an impartial steward.
                                Jan 4th Put out in company with our friends
                                    at sun rise. Pased the shute at the head of
                                    No 40 when we lashed. We today pased the
                                    Devils Elbow. This is a short crook in the
                                    river & the currant is vary strong.
                                    We lande at 
                                        Memphis
                                     an hour by sun at a beautiful
                                    landin in eddy watter at the lower end of
                                    town. This place is situated on the 4th
                                    Chickasaw Bluffs. It is a town of
                                    considerable importance and appears to be
                                    improving vary fast.8 We
                                    have not as yet made any sales at this
                                    place. Chickens are 2$ per doz, Turkeys 5
                                    bits a piece, flower 4.50$ per barrel, pork
                                    4 1/2 cents per lb & we expect to
                                    put out in the morning.
                                Jan 5th Left 
                                        Memphis
                                     at 8 oclock A.M. and landed on
                                    the right shore at dark just above the head
                                    of 52 in deep eddy watter. We made sale of
                                    about 75 ears of corn at 
                                        Memphis
                                    , which glutted the market. I
                                    and Mr. Murphy set out our hooks directly
                                    after we landed. He, just as I were writing
                                    about it, enquired if I had caught any cat
                                    fish yet. I answered in the negative. It is
                                    ten minutes past nine. I must look at my
                                    hooks and then go to bed—
                                6th Left No 52 at day break & landed
                                    1/2 mile below the mouth of the river St.
                                    Francis at dark in an eddy where the watter
                                    is deep. St. Francis 
                                        
                                        8 Throughout the
                                        1820s and 1830s 
                                        Memphis
                                         competed with 
                                        Randolph, Tennessee
                                        , another
                                        Mississippi
                                        River town, for supremacy
                                        as a primary cotton-shipping port.
                                        See John R. Finger, 
                                        Tennessee
                                        
                                        Frontiers: Three
                                        Regions in Transition (
                                        Bloomington
                                        , Ind., 2001), 241-58,
                                        264-65.
                                    
                                     is
                                    navagable for about 300 miles. We caught no
                                    fish last night but Mike who is the steward
                                    of the two boats caught a couple of
                                    beautiful chickens for us. The chickens are
                                    squalling. I must go-9 oclock at night. He
                                    has just furnished us with 6 more, but he
                                    takes them out of my coop for which I dont
                                    feel vary greatful-
                                7th Loosed cable at day light and landed just
                                    above the head of 62 in deep watter on the
                                    Arkensaw side. Here we all went out in an
                                    uncommon heavy cane break. The kane is
                                    upwards of 20 feet high. Each man brought on
                                    board one or more of the best he could find.
                                    We to day passed the town of Hellena.
                                    Ellison Cale & I went out in the
                                    skift to the citty. He put a letter in the
                                    post office & I bought a small
                                    penknife. Mike last night brought in 8
                                    fowls. He has got 10 in all. He has proved
                                    himself to be a trusty Stewart but his life
                                    is sought, and a reward is offered for his
                                    head.
                                8th Cut loose from 62 at break of day
                                    & landed on the head of 69 just
                                    before sun down. Uncle James Murphy sold 200
                                    pounds of pork today at 5 cents also 5
                                    barrels of corn meal at 2$ per barrel. James
                                    Downey sold at the landing this evening 1
                                    barrel of flower for 5$. I mention this as
                                    it is the first sales they have made. Mike,
                                    our steward, is no more. He has gone to his
                                    long home. He was a faithful Stewart-he
                                    never betrayed his trust-he provided
                                    well-but he had his enemies & they
                                    slew him on the 8 day of January. While the
                                    Citizens of 
                                        New
                                        Orleans
                                     were celebrating the victories
                                    of General Andrew Jackson, the enemies of
                                    Mike were rejoicing at his downfall
                                    & feasting and drinking toasts
                                    merily. While he was in service he procured
                                    5 dozen of chickens & 4 fat roasting
                                    Turkeys but he has ceased toiling &
                                    rests from his labours.
                                9th Loosed cable at 6 oclock A.M. from 69 and
                                    landed at No 75 or (Ozark Island) at dusk in
                                    a large deep eddy. We passed large cane
                                    breaks to day. There are immense quantities
                                    on the Missippi of the largest kind of cane.
                                    The banks of the Missippi in the bends are
                                    washing away, whole acres fall in at a time-
                                10th Loosed from Ozark Island at 4 oclock
                                    A.M. and landed at Point Checo at 10 oclock
                                    P.M. to day.9 We passed 
                                        Columbia
                                     at 9 at night. This is a small
                                    but flourishing villiage. Three steam boats
                                    passed us this evening all in sight at once.
                                    I had 6 chickens killed last night by
                                    another mink. He got on bord our boat at
                                    Ozark Island.
                                
                                    
                                        9 By the 1830s,
                                        nighttime navigation of the
                                        Mississippi
                                        River was possible, in some
                                        areas and under certain conditions,
                                        because of government improvements. See
                                        Allen, Western
                                        Rivermen, 160.
                                
                                
                                11th Loosed from Point Checo at 5 oclock in
                                    the morning and landed at the head of No 88
                                    1 hour by sun on the right hand shore. Here
                                    James Downey sold 116 pounds of bacon at 5
                                    cents per pound. This has been a windy day
                                    and it was with much difficuty that we could
                                    make much headway at times. The minks killed
                                    21 chickens last night for me. They are
                                    under deck and it is impossible for me to
                                    kill them. 1 have got candles burning by the
                                    coops tonight perhaps that may prevent him
                                    from killing them. If it does not I will put
                                    the coops on deck tomorrow. They are the
                                    fattest chickens that I ever saw-it is 8
                                    oclock at night & is both warm
                                    & raining-
                                12th Loosed from No 88 at day break and
                                    landed at Lake 
                                        Providence
                                     at 4 oclock in the evening. We
                                    had to run in the fog today. We were offered
                                    6 bits a barrel for corn but we could not
                                    land on account of the fog. Lake 
                                        Providence
                                     is situated on the Louisaana
                                    side. It is but a small town and of but
                                    little business. It takes its name from a
                                    small Lake 2 1/2 miles back from the town.
                                    The mink killed two chickens last night. I
                                    sold about $2.50 worth of chickens. They
                                    sell at 3$ per dozen. I sold 2 roosters at 4
                                    bits a piece-
                                13th Loosed from Lake 
                                        Providence
                                     at 11 oclock A.M. and landed at
                                    Tompkins Settlement at sundown. It rained
                                    hard all last night & our boat
                                    leaked vary bad wich made it vary
                                    disagreeable. I caught the mink in a
                                    deadfall last night.10
                                    This has been a beautiful clear calm day.
                                14th Put out from Tompkins Settlement at 2
                                    oclock at night and had to land on acount of
                                    wind at Milligans Settlement at 10 oclock
                                    A.M. We have the appearance of a heavy
                                    lightning storm. We are laying on the
                                    Louisaana side in good landing. We passed
                                    some beautiful cotton farms to day. One man
                                    cultivated last summer four hundred acres of
                                    cotton. Cotton is worth something like
                                    75.00$ per acre. No wonder the cotton
                                    planters get rich. This mans cotton was
                                    worth thirty thousand dollars. A neat income
                                    yearly.
                                Jan 15th Loosed from Milligans Settlement one
                                    hour before day and landed at Vixburgh at 12
                                    oclock at the steam boat landing. Vixburgh
                                    is situated on the walnut hills & is
                                    a citty of business.11
                                    There are some vary splendid buildings in
                                    this place & amongst the number is
                                    the bank 
                                        
                                        10 A deadfall
                                        trap kills the animal by dropping a
                                        heavy weight on it.
                                        
                                        11 Laid out in
                                        1819, by the 1830s Vicksburg rivaled
                                        Natchez as a fast-growing and
                                        prosperous river town. See
                                        Christopher Morris, Becoming Southern: The
                                        Evolution of a Way of Life, 
                                        Warren
                                        County
                                         and Vicksburg, 
                                        Mississippi
                                        , 1770-1860 (
                                        New York
                                        , 1995), esp. chap.
                                        7.
                                    
                                     which is
                                    a new building not finished yet. It is vary
                                    large & situated near the centre of
                                    the citty. The streets are entirely too
                                    narrow. There is some cases of the small pox
                                    in the lower part of town. There is a
                                    hospital erected above town on the hills. We
                                    made some few sales. Corn is retailing at 6
                                    & 7 bits a barrel, pork at 4 to 4
                                    1/2 but market dull. I sold 3 dozen of
                                    Turkeys at $10.50 per dozen also 7 doz and 7
                                    chickens at 3 dollars per doz. In all my
                                    sales amounted today to $54.25.
                                16th Left Victsburgh at 3 oclock P.M.
                                    & landed at Warrenton at sun down in
                                    good landing. I sold at Victsburgh this
                                    morning 4 dozen and a half of chickens at $3
                                    per dozen which was $13.50. Add to this the
                                    sale yesterday-$54.25 makes $67.75 I have
                                    received in at Victsburgh- Warrenton is a
                                    place of but an indifferent apperance. It
                                    has I am told some respectable citizens in
                                    it but if we were to judge of its
                                    inhabitants from what we have seen we would
                                    say it was a refuge for Counterfitters,
                                    Gamblers & swindlers. John S. Brien
                                    is here-1 bought the Life or Narative of the
                                    Life of Davy Crockett to day at Victsburgh
                                    at 8 bits.
                                17th Lay by at Warington all day. Captain 
                                        Cleveland
                                     and his boat left last night at
                                    2 oclock. We expect to meet with them again
                                    at the Grand Gulf & then perhaps
                                    keep in the neighbour hood of each other
                                    until we sell out. I sold 405 pounds of pork
                                    at 5 cents to Isaac Robbertson, he married
                                    the Widdow Briscoes daughter, also 1 dozen
                                    of chickens at 3$ to another Gentleman.
                                    Christopher Ashworth is vary unwell today.
                                    He sent for John S. Brien to come down to
                                    the boat to make some sort of an settlement
                                    with him. Brien came down & told
                                    Christopher that he did not intend to pay
                                    another cent to any person unless they would
                                    give him a clear receipte from the horse
                                    business. He also told Christopher that if
                                    he was disposed to sue to go ahead but if he
                                    did he would make it a dear Law suit to him
                                    & his friends. Christopher told him
                                    that he had always been opposed to using
                                    ruff measures with him, expecting that he
                                    would at some time pay him, but that he now
                                    saw plainly that he was a rascal and had
                                    swindled him out of his propperty &c
                                    and that he now would sue him on the Bond
                                    that he had given him & for damages
                                    and that he would push the Law riggerously
                                    to its extent. By this time both parties
                                    were pretty warm. Brien left the boat
                                    & Christopher sent for Joseph
                                    Templeton (Who is a Merchant of that place)
                                    & gave to him all his notes
                                    & papers with instructions to put
                                    them in the hands of Messrs Badly &
                                    Templeton of Victsburgh for Collection.
                                18th Lay by at Warrington all day. I sold 2
                                    doz of chickens at 3$ per doz, also 2
                                    Turkeys at 6 bits apiece. This has been as
                                    warm as May. The wether is calm &
                                    clear—
                                
                                Jan 19 Left Warrington 1 hour by sun in the
                                    morning & landed at the foot of
                                    Palmyra Island at sundown on the Missippi
                                    side at a first rate landing in edy watter.
                                    Here I sold 4 dozen of chickens at $3 per
                                    dozen to a Mr Perkins. He is, I am told, one
                                    of the richest men in the Missippi State.
                                    His anual income is about $40,000 dollars.
                                    Although he is so immencely rich I found to
                                    be one of the most particular men that I
                                    have had any trading with. I sold my Turkeys
                                    out to day. There was five, I sold them at 6
                                    bits apiece. I have sold 43 Turkeys-most of
                                    them at 7 bits. I had 5 to die. We saw 10 or
                                    12 Indians to day. There was one squaw among
                                    them. She was tollerable good looking. They
                                    are of the Chocktaw tribe-
                                20th Left the Palmyra Islands one hour before
                                    day & landed 1 mile above
                                    Bruinsburgh on the 
                                        Louisiana
                                     side in deep edy watter. We
                                    today landed at the Grand Gulf. This is a
                                    vary flourishing villiage. I made some
                                    enquiries about Charlotte Jaquess but I
                                    could not hear any thing about her. She
                                    lives about 10 miles from the Gulf.12 It has been
                                    thundering today & has the
                                    appearence a thunder gust, no sales today-We
                                    found Captain 
                                        Cleveland
                                     at the Grand Gulf. They have
                                    sold out their corn at 6 bits per barel. We
                                    are lashed together at this time. Pork is
                                    dull sale at the Gulf at 4 1/2 per lb. One
                                    man was selling at 3 1/2 cents per pound. He
                                    certainly must be home sick. It is such
                                    sales men as this man is that spoils the
                                    market-
                                21st Cut loose from our landing 1 hour before
                                    day & landed at the Pettit Gulf (or
                                    Rodney) at 10 oclock A.M. This is a small
                                    but flourishing place. There is a splendid
                                    Church just below town. Jackson Ashworth and
                                    I walked down to it. The Church is built of
                                    brick, is vary large & finished off
                                    with pews in the finest style. We then
                                    walked on the top of the hill that is at the
                                    back of town. It is at least 150 feet higher
                                    than the town. Here you can get a beautiful
                                    view of the place and of the riwer. I sold
                                    at this place today 2 kegs of lard at 6 1/4
                                    cents. The kegs hold about 40 pounds. Also 2
                                    dozen of chickens (which are the last), 1
                                    dozen at $2.50, the other $2.25 cents. They
                                    were getting sickley & I was glad to
                                    get clear of them. On almost any terms,
                                    Chickens are troublesome things to take on a
                                    flat boat & to sell them at $3.00 or
                                    less as I have done is not worth ones
                                    attention. Here we met with several of our
                                    hoosier friends viz John 
                                        
                                        12 This could
                                        refer to Charlotte Copeland Jaquess,
                                        who had married Asbury's older
                                        brother George in 1825.
                                    
                                     Sanders,
                                    James Wiley, Andy Walker, Asa Bacon
                                    &c. Here we got our Cloaths washed
                                    at 6 1/4 cents a piece-
                                22nd Left Rodney at 9 oclock in the morning
                                    & landed at 
                                        Montgomery
                                    's at sundown on the 
                                        Louisiana
                                     side in deep eddy watter. 
                                        Cleveland
                                     landed 1/2 mile above us. Sold
                                    nothing today. We are about 13 miles above
                                    Nachez.
                                23rd Cut loose from Montgomerys Landing at
                                    day light & was hailed by a
                                    Tennissee boat that was selling out at 6
                                    bits. They said that they were autherised or
                                    directed by Mr Alexander to hail and land a
                                    corn boat at 6 bits a barrel for him. We
                                    landed and closed the sale or contract with
                                    him. Alaxander lives 4 miles from the river.
                                    I expect we will have a tedious time
                                    unloading the boat as the corn has to be
                                    hauled that distance. After we had landed I
                                    got on bord of an Illinoise boat and went
                                    down to Natchez to see if I could make any
                                    engagements there with the beef. Our boat is
                                    2 1/2 miles above the citty-13
                                
                                24th Satterday I staid last night in Captain
                                    Clevelands boat. Mr. Murphey & I
                                    went in town today to see if we could make
                                    any engagements or sales of our beef but we
                                    could find no market for such as ours. But
                                    Cincinnatti beef [?] is selling at retail $6
                                    and $7 per half barrel. I did alculate on
                                    returning to our boat to night but it blew
                                    up a tremendious thunder storm and our fare
                                    was bad. The cabbin leaked like a riddle and
                                    we all got well soaked-Grenade Ashworth and
                                    Benjamin Acuff came down and staid all night
                                    with Captain 
                                        Cleveland
                                     in the boat-
                                25th Sunday This morning we had the pleasure
                                    of seeing Joseph Jolly & getting our
                                    music Books that were on his boat when we
                                    parted at Fort Massac. We left our hoosier
                                    friends at sun rise or before and went up to
                                    our boat in our skiff. We measured out 50
                                    barrels of corn to-day. It has been as warm
                                    as May and the flies are as thick in our
                                    cabbin as they are with us in summer. I fear
                                    that the green flies will injure. The pork
                                    is dull sale at Nachez at 5 cents retail.
                                    Bacon bought out a load of bulk pork at 3
                                    1/4 cents per lb. My prospects are
                                    discouraging in the pork way, to sell for
                                    less than 5 cents is doing bad business but
                                    I must do the best I can.
                                26th This morning we have all been vary busy
                                    measuring out corn. John B. Moore passed us
                                    about sun rise. James Bonner passed us about
                                    9 oclock in Company with Harmons boat-they
                                    said that they had sold out about 200
                                    barrels at 6 & 7 bits per lb. About
                                    12 oclock C Ashworth 
                                        
                                        13 See D.
                                        Clayton James, Antebellum Natchez (
                                        Baton
                                        Rouge
                                        , La., reprint,
                                        1993).
                                    
                                     and I
                                    got in our skift and dropped down to town
                                    where they had landed. They have an offer of
                                    6 bits per barrel which Bonner and Harmon
                                    are willing to take provided they can agree
                                    on the number of barrels that the boats
                                    contain. The purchaser wishes to ascertain
                                    the number by the gauge rule but they are
                                    not willing to sell by that rule thinking it
                                    not to be a fair way of dealling. C.
                                    Ashworth went back up in the skift and I
                                    staid all night with Bonner at the landing.
                                    There is a small boat at Nachez belonging to
                                    Mr. McKinny who is from 
                                        Kentucky
                                     near 
                                        Mt.
                                        Vernon
                                    . The boat is 28 feet long, 14
                                    feet wide and vary neatly and light built.
                                    William Bonner has been talking if he sells
                                    out at this place that he & I will
                                    take her on the coast. I put in my pork
                                    & beef and some other articles that
                                    I may purchase for the sake of traffic
                                    & he also lay in such grocries as
                                    may be deemed most suitable for the coast.
                                27th This morning I have been walking up
                                    & down the landing to ascertain the
                                    correct price of pork. I find that it is
                                    dull at 5 cents retail. Good pork is
                                    retailling at 4 1/2 cents per lb. A first
                                    rate lot of pork was bought yesterday at 4
                                    cents and the day before a lot of 50,000 at
                                    3 1/2 cents per lb. I find that I must
                                    either go on the coast or take 4 cents per
                                    pound for the pork. If I go on the coast it
                                    is probable that I can barter the pork for
                                    sugar and mollasses then ship them for 
                                        New
                                        Orleans
                                     or 
                                        Mt.
                                        Vernon
                                     and turn them into cash if I
                                    cannot doe any better. I left town at 12
                                    oclock & returned to our boat.
                                    Bonner and Harmon had not yet sold. If they
                                    doe not sell today they intend to start out
                                    on the coast in the morning.
                                28th Wednesday The river is rising vary fast
                                    and appears to be pretty well lined with
                                    flat boats. There has well on to 20 passed
                                    us to day. We have been informed to day by a
                                    boat-man that a flat boat loaded with bulk
                                    pork got stove last night at Fairchilds
                                    Island 12 or 15 miles above this. If it be
                                    the case the owner of that load will not be
                                    perplexed with a dull market. There has been
                                    about 125 barrels of corn taken out of our
                                    boat. To-day we will get unloaded, to-morrow
                                    morning if the wether keeps fair-
                                Jan 29th The wether has been vary
                                    unfavourable to-day. There was quite a
                                    thunderstorm this morning & the wind
                                    is blowing with considerable violince at
                                    this time. I had the pleasure of selling to
                                    Mr. Alexander 4 kegs of lard to day at 6
                                    cents per lb. He offered to buy some of the
                                    hams but at 5 cents per pound, but I
                                    declined selling hams alone at that price
                                    thinking it might injure the sale of the
                                    pork should I whole-sale it off at Nachez.
                                    We lack about 50 barrels of being unloaded.
                                    We will unload in the morning and drop down
                                    to the town to see a man hung there. He is
                                        
                                    condemed for murder and will be put to-death
                                    at about 12 oclock. I repacked my pork
                                    to-day and found that it has all kept good
                                    not one joint was injured in the whole lot—
                                30th Friday This day we finished measuring
                                    out the corn. There was 826 barrels of corn.
                                    I sold 9 more kegs of lard to Mr. Alaxander
                                    at 6 cents per lb. We let lose our cable
                                    & droped down to Nachez at 11
                                    oclock. After we had landed we all except
                                    Christopher went up to the Jail to see that
                                    man hung. After we had staid there 1/2 an
                                    hour the guards collected in. There was 12,
                                    6 of them white & 6 molatoes. They
                                    were armed with muskets and bayonets. The
                                    Criminal was a first rate looking black
                                    fellow about 5 feet 9 inches high, square
                                    heavy sett & one of the stoutest men
                                    in the state, his left arm off close to his
                                    shoulder. Tis said that he had carried a
                                    barrel of pork in one hand-He walked out of
                                    the Jail, got into the cart & set
                                    down on his coffin, then the cart &
                                    company moved on to the gallows. When the
                                    cart stoped the sheriff told him to get out
                                    of he cart and walk up on the skaffold which
                                    he did with firmness. He stood on the
                                    trap-door while the sheriff was adjusting
                                    the rope, all the while looking on the
                                    concourse of people without showing any
                                    visible marks of fear. After the rope was
                                    fixed the sheriff told him if he had any
                                    thing to say to speak. Nat said (for that
                                    was his name) that he had something to say
                                    and asked the sheriff if he would give him
                                    time to speak but the sheriff let the trap
                                    door down, he fell about 5 feet and was dead
                                    in a few minutes. Tis said that the sheriff
                                    misunderstood him.
                                31st It has turned vary cold & windy,
                                    colder than it has been this season. At this
                                    place the speculators have been flocking
                                    about our boat today. They offer 4 cents for
                                    the pork, 5 1/2 for lard, $5.00 for beef in
                                    barrels, $2.50 for beef in half barrels
                                    & $40.00 for the boat. This is about
                                    as good as the wholesale price is at this
                                    place. We doe not know hardly what to doe.
                                    We have sold out except our pork, beef
                                    & lard and we talk of taking load of
                                    wood to Orleans. If we doe take wood we may
                                    be detained on the way till the market will
                                    be as dull at that place as it is at this.
                                    Pork is we hear at Orleans 4 1/2 cts to 5 a
                                    pound, beef very dull.
                                1st Frebuary Freezing cold clear &
                                    winday. We attended the Methodist church
                                    to-day in the City. The congregation was
                                    respectable. We were also in a Presbaterian
                                    Church. The building is large, well finished
                                    with painted pews.
                                2nd Monday This day one of our bow hands,
                                    Benjamin Acuff, got on bord of a 
                                        Kentucky
                                     boat & engaged to go to
                                    Orleans for $10.00. There was heavy pork
                                    retailed at the warf today at $4.37 1/2 per
                                    hundred. 
                                    There are but vary few retail purchasers.
                                    The farmers prefer barrel pork for their
                                    negroes. This is one reason bulk pork is so
                                    low. Pork has not been but 5 cents at this
                                    place this fall or winter-
                                3rd We should put out from here this morning
                                    had it not been for the wind. It is vary
                                    cold. We continue to get visits from the
                                    speculators daily. They represent the great
                                    quantity of pork that has gone below ‘to
                                    us,’ tell us pork there is a mere drug then
                                    offer 4 cents a pound saying we will have to
                                    take less than that if we go below but I
                                    will risk taking less rather than take 4
                                    here-
                                4th Lay by for wind. We met with Captain
                                    Johnson & Hedgeman Dalrymple. They
                                    have sold out at 6 bits a barrel. They found
                                    a canoe that we sold to an Irishman by the
                                    name of James Mills. He put a trunk, 2
                                    mattresses and some other articles on our
                                    boat. This was late in the evening. He
                                    promised to meet us in Nachez the next
                                    morning but we have not heard from him
                                    since. He was intoxicated when he left us
                                    and we have good reasons to believe that he
                                    is drowned as the wind was vary high when he
                                    started. 1 sold to Mr. Bracket of Nachez 12
                                    half barrels of beef at $3.50 per barrel.
                                    Beef if not of the first quality is a dull
                                    article.
                                5th Loosed from Nachez at 10 A.M. and landed
                                    half a mile below the White Cliffs at 4
                                    oclock P.M. The cliffs are composed of white
                                    sand. The hills are cut to pieces by deep
                                    gullies & have a vary romantic
                                    appearence.
                                6th Loosed cable at daylight and landed at Mr
                                    D. E Millers at 11 oclock A.M. Here we sold
                                    out all of the pork consisting of 5391 lb at
                                    4 1/2 cents. The pork when it was weighed in
                                    was 8750 pounds. It lost just about one
                                    third. It was worth at home just about what
                                    it is worth here, that is at 3 cents per
                                    pound the first weight is equal to the last
                                    weight at 4 1/2 cents. I sold 8 kegs of lard
                                    at 6 cents and 1/2 barrel of beef biscuit
                                    pieces at $4.00. The lard will be worth
                                    about 75$ which will defray all of the
                                    expences. Mr. D. E Millar & Johnson
                                    are the Gentlemen who bought us out. I am to
                                    take a draft on Mr. Cotton of Nachez for my
                                    money.
                                7th Last night Mr. Miller had the misfortune
                                    to get his house burned. He lost about $2000
                                    dollars worth of propperty. The list of
                                    weights of the pork was in Mr. Millers house
                                    and got burnt up but fortunately I had drawn
                                    off a list of the same and by this we
                                    ascertained what it amounted too. We have
                                    bought a load of wood at 2.00$ per cord. He
                                    engages to make it good at 4.00$ per cord,
                                    that is if we doe not get $4.00 he will make
                                    it up to us & if we get more than $4
                                    he is to get all over that amount. We put
                                    about 15 cords of wood in the boat to-day.
                                
                                
                                    "Birds' Eye View of 
                                        New
                                        Orleans
                                        " by John Bachmann, 1851
                                        Courtesy, Library of Congress, Geography
                                        and Map Division
                                
                                8th Sunday Last night was as cold a night as
                                    I ever felt. The winds were vary high and
                                    the ground froze two or three inches deep.
                                    We have all day been setting around the
                                    fire, one side burning and the other
                                    freesing.
                                11th Wednesday This day we finished loading
                                    our boat with wood. She has about 50 cords
                                    of cotton wood on bord. We were 3 1/2 days
                                    loading her. We bought the wood from Mr.
                                    David E Miller formerly of 
                                        Lexington
                                     Ky. We left Millers (which is
                                    25 miles below Nachez) at 1 oclock P.M. and
                                    landed at the upper end of Layfayette 
                                        New
                                        Orleans
                                     on 19th at 10 oclock in the
                                    morning. Directly after we landed we were
                                    offered $1.75 cts for our wood. We tried
                                    most of the brick yards & wood yards
                                    but the highest offer we have had is $2.00
                                    per cord. The steam boats wont have it, they
                                    want Ash.
                                20 Seeing we can do no better, we have sold
                                    out to a French man named De.li.shau at
                                    $2.00 per chord. We had to sell our beef at
                                    about half its value. I sold 1 lb &
                                    1/2 lb of beef at $5.00 dollars.
                                21 We today laid in our groceres. I got 1
                                    sack of coffee at 13 cts per pound, 1 lb of
                                    sugar at 6 1/2 cts per lb, 1 lb of mackeral
                                    at $7.50 & 1 keg of rice at 4 cts
                                    per pound. The whole amounted to 49.50$ I
                                    also bought 1 pair of half boots at $1.75,
                                    The Life of William Wallace at $1.00
                                    & The Poetical Works of Pope at 4
                                    bits. We shipped on board the Uncle Sam  and left
                                    Orleans on Sunday the 22 at 10 oclock in the
                                    morning for Mt Vernon, Posey Co. Indiana.
                                Feb. [March] 9th Landed at Mt Vernon at 10
                                    oclock at night. It was court week and
                                    although it was raining and the banks
                                    extremely muddy and late at night yet I had
                                    the happiness of meeting with Col Casey,
                                    Thomas Barrett and other acquantances at the
                                    landing and heard by them of my friends at
                                    home for the first time since I had left,
                                    which was 3 months lacking 10 days. None but
                                    those who have been absent and experianced
                                    such meetings can rightly appreciate them.
                                    We may take pleasure in traveling and our
                                    curiosity may be highly gratified by
                                    surveying the scenery of other countries and
                                    the manners and customs of other people but
                                    those feelings fall far short of the
                                    emotions we feel when returning to our homes
                                    from which we have been so long absent and
                                    meeting with our friends from whom we have
                                    been seperated so long—
                                Before closing this narative I will make a
                                    few remarks in refferance to boating.14 This business has
                                    much novelty and many charms, hardships and
                                    privations connected with it. Men thrown
                                    together from all parts of the 
                                        United
                                        States
                                     and in deed from the whole
                                    world with ther various manners and habits
                                    unrestrained by the presence of female
                                    influance exibits a scene of extraordinary
                                    novelty and is probaly one of the best
                                    places for a man to acquire a knowledge of
                                        human nature.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        14 Allen, based on his reading of
                        more than eighty flatboat journals dating throughout the
                        antebellum period, notes that later flatboatmen "were
                        gaining a self-perception" of their time on the river.
                        They "could afford the luxuries of self-glorification
                        and romanticization, and many of them possessed the
                        mental equipment to engage in such pursuits." Jaquess's
                        concluding thoughts are but one interesting example of
                        this phenomenon. See Allen, Western Rivermen,
                    210.
                
            
            
            
                Race and (In)justice on the 
                        Mississippi
                     An Episode from "The Journals of the Davy
                    Crockett"
                THOMAS C. BUCHANAN
                An assessment of "The Journals of the Davy Crockett" must
                    begin with Michael Allen's classic study of eighteenth- and
                    nineteenthcentury flatboating. Allen argues that by the
                    Jacksonian years, when the Davy Crockett drifted downriver,
                    flatboatmen's lives were less rough and violent than those
                    of their eighteenth-century counterparts. While commerce had
                    always been central to the river journeys, he writes, by the
                    1830s flatboatmen were increasingly market-minded as cargoes
                    grew in size and markets expanded along the "coasts" of the
                    lower Mississippi River. In addition,
                    the invention of the steamboat enabled these men to return
                    quickly home after their journeys and therefore to cultivate
                    riverside community and family life. According to Allen, it
                    was during this period that stories of Alligator Horse
                    frontier boatmen became popular, because the work experience
                    itself was becoming more civilized.1
                
                
                    Thomas C. Buchanan is a lecturer in American history
                        at the University of Adelaide, South 
                            Australia
                        . He is the author of Black
                            Life on the 
                                Mississippi
                            : Slaves, Free Blacks, and the Western
                            Steamboat World (
                            Chapel Hill
                        , N.C., 2004).
                    
                        1 Michael Allen, Western Rivermen, 1763-1861: 
                            Ohio
                         and 
                            Mississippi
                        
                        Boatmen and the Myth of the Alligator
                        Horse (
                            Baton Rouge
                        , La., 1990), chapter 5. Journalists
                        portrayed frontiersmen as
                
                
                In many ways, the journal reveals the sort of men Allen
                    studies. Its author, Asbury C. Jaquess, the clerk of the
                    vessel, is not a tough-talking, hard-drinking, violent
                    frontiersman but instead a literate, communityminded farmer
                    from 
                        Posey County
                    , Indiana. Jaquess reads stories of violence and
                    adventure (including the life of Davy Crockett and the life
                    of William Wallace) as he travels, but his own life is less
                    dramatic. Jaquess would have had more in common with a
                    shopkeeper than with these historic figures. Jaquess reports
                    the murder of a steward on another boat, but for the most
                    part the famously rough culture of flatboating is absent.
                    "Cave-in-Rock," the old pirate den along the Ohio
                        River, is now a tourist destination. Rather
                    than fighting or drinking, Jaquess goes to church and
                    worries about the market for his goods. Should he sell the
                    hams individually or insist on selling them in conjunction
                    with barrel pork? Jaquess's thoughts betray a mind that is
                    savvy in market dealings. He learns quickly what is in
                    demand at various points along the river, discovering, for
                    example, that plantation owners prefer barrel pork for their
                    slaves. He knows, as he frees up space on his flatboat
                    through the sale of foodstuffs in 
                        Mississippi
                     and 
                        Louisiana
                    , that he should load wood for sale even further
                    south. Jaquess's sober habits continue once he arrives in
                    the city of sin, 
                        New Orleans
                    . Rather than spend his money on a spree, he
                    carefully purchases goods for consumption and sale back
                    home. Indiana remains on his mind throughout his journey,
                    and he frequently mentions his joy at seeing other friends
                    from home on the river. The transportation revolution allows
                    him to return just a few months after leaving. While
                    Jaquess's business takes him away from home, he never sheds
                    his "hoosier" identity.
                The incident that makes "The Journals of the Davy Crockett"
                    significant in comparison to dozens of similar accounts is
                    Jaquess's description of the execution of a "first rate
                    looking black fellow" named Nat in Natchez on January 30,
                        1835.2 Apparently drawn by the lure
                    of the spectacle, Jaquess left his flatboat and walked up to
                    the Natchez jail, where he waited for half an hour before
                    twelve armed guards escorted the prisoner from his cell.
                    Jaquess watched as the man got on a cart, sat on his coffin,
                    and rode to the gallows. "Without any visible marks of 
                        Alligator Horses because of their physical
                            strength. They could supposedly swim like alligators
                            and run like horses.
                        
                            2 For the story of Nat's
                            hanging, see pp. 20-21.
                    
                     fear" Nat looked over
                    the crowd. What followed, as Jaquess reported it, was a
                    misunderstanding: the sheriff "told him [Nat] if he had any
                    thing to say to speak" and Nat replied with a question of
                    his own. He asked if the sheriff would give him time to
                    speak, something that Jaquess reports had already been
                    granted. The sheriff then either willfully disregarded Nat's
                    request or took the prisoner's hesitation as a sign that he
                    had uttered his last words. Either might have misunderstood
                    the other, revealing a potentially profound difference in
                    the inflection of their speech. In any case, the sheriff let
                    the trapdoor down and Nat was dead in a few minutes.
                By prematurely executing his prisoner, the sheriff added an
                    additional element of brutality to an already horrific
                    spectacle. Not allowed to speak, Nat was denied an attempt
                    to tell his own story, a story that would have been carried
                    into the future by his flatboatman scribe. As a result, we
                    are left with basic questions about Nat. Was he a slave or a
                    free black? The fact that Jaquess does not record Nat's last
                    name may indicate that he was a slave, but this is tenuous
                    evidence at best. Who was Nat convicted of killing? Did Nat
                    believe himself guilty? Jaquess is mute on these matters.3
                
                Jaquess does give a few clues, however, that help us to
                    reconstruct some of the broader context of the hanging. The
                    name Nat may be very significant. Just three years after Nat
                    Turner's hanging in 
                        Virginia
                    , we have the hanging of another Nat in 
                        Mississippi
                    . Was this 
                        Mississippi
                     Nat politicized by Nat Turner, a bond made more
                    powerful by their common name? Or was he, instead, punished
                    in part for the coincidence of a name that linked him to the
                    infamous slave rebel?
                Several clues about Nat and his physical skills help identify
                    him as someone who may have worked on the river or along the
                    levees of Natchez. First, Jaquess heard about the coming
                    execution while working on the river. This may indicate that
                    Nat was known there. Furthermore, 
                        
                            
                                3 I could find no additional
                                information about the hanging that would help to
                                rectify these and other matters, although such
                                information may well exist. Some standard
                                sources, however, are silent. William Johnson's
                                famous diary of Natchez life begins just after
                                the execution, in late 1835, and has no mention
                                of the hanging. See William Ransom Hogan and
                                Edwin Adams Davis, eds., William
                                    Johnson's Natchez: The Antebellum Diary of a
                                    Free Negro (
                                    Baton
                                    Rouge
                                , La., 1993).
                            Natchez newspapers are available for most of the
                                nineteenth century, but there is a brief gap
                                during the time of the hanging. I was not able
                                to research whether court records exist for this
                                case, and this will clearly be a priority for
                                future researchers to discover.
                        
                    
                     Jaquess describes Nat as
                    missing an arm "off close to his shoulder". This description
                    suggests an accident, perhaps of the kind that was common
                    during the loading of river vessels. Despite this
                    disability, Jaquess writes that "tis said" (perhaps by his
                    rivermen associates) that Nat was strong enough to have
                    "carried a barrel of pork in one hand". While barrels of
                    pork were certainly carried in lots of places in the
                    antebellum South, the fact that this story was in
                    circulation at the hanging indicates that Nat was probably
                    lifting barrels in Natchez, and probably in a public place
                    such as the wharf. Furthermore, we can guess that Nat would
                    have worked for some period of time in this capacity, since
                    it is unlikely that he would have begun river work as a
                    one-armed roustabout. Even with his disability, Nat was
                    apparently one of the "stoutest men in the state," which
                    made him employable as either a deckhand on a steamboat or a
                    drayman along the levee. It is also possible, though less
                    probable, that he worked as a flatboatman in the manner of
                    Simon Gray, a slave whose life has been documented by
                    historian John H. Moore.4
                
                These clues suggest some of the drama behind the spectacle
                    that Jaquess watched. In the minds of white southerners, the
                    term "riverman" and the name "Nat" would have been pertinent
                    supportive evidence for the charge of murder. African
                    American rivermen were the object of considerable
                    legislation in this time period, and slaveholders worried
                    about the threat that these free-roving workers posed to
                    their chattel.5 They waged nothing short
                    of a campaign of terror against these workers in the 1830s
                    and 1840s, and Nat's name (in addition to his occupation)
                    may have sealed his fate.
                "The Journals of the Davy Crockett" records a meeting between
                    two very different kinds of rivermen. Asbury C. Jaquess was
                    the sort of modern business-minded flatboatman whom Michael
                    Allen describes. Nat, in contrast, lived a life defined by
                    danger, violence, and ultimately death, and his experience
                    certainly does not fit the modernization pattern that Allen
                    describes. The encounter reminds us of the extent to which
                    race shaped experiences on the antebellum 
                        Mississippi
                    .
                
                    
                        4 John Hebron Moore, "Simon Gray,
                        Riverman: A Slave Who Was Almost Free," 
                            Mississippi Valley Historical
                            Review 49 (December 1962), 474-84.
                    
                        5 Buchanan, Black Life
                            on the 
                                Mississippi
                            .
                    
                
            
            
            
                The "Slows" The Torment of Milk Sickness on the Midwest
                    Frontier
                WALTER J. DALY
                In the early nineteenth century, as white settlers flooded
                    onto the midwestern frontier, a new and highly fatal disease
                    appeared among them. The sickness was unknown along the
                    eastern coast and elsewhere in the world. Settlers were
                    forced to guess at its cause and attempt to treat it without
                    benefit of prior experience or modern clinical research. An
                    understanding of the disease's pathology and the discovery
                    of a successful treatment had to wait until the advent of
                    twentieth-century biochemistry. By that time, milk sickness
                    had almost disappeared, and today it is nearly forgotten.
                The "interior valley of North America," as Daniel Drake
                    described it, was settled by people who moved across the
                    mountains to an arduous and precarious life. Pioneers
                    labored to eke out an existence, and they came into frequent
                    contact with violence, malnutrition, and disease.
                Chief among the diseases of the area and time were malaria,
                    dysentery, cholera, typhoid fever, streptococcal infections,
                    smallpox, 
                        Walther J. Daly, M.D., is dean emeritus of the
                            Indiana University School of Medicine at 
                                Indianapolis
                            . In the IMH he has previously published
                            "The Origins of President Bryan's Medical School"
                            (December 2002).
                    
                     and pneumonia. These
                    were common in the East, and pioneers possessed a level of
                    popular understanding about the symptoms and the available
                    treatments for each disease. Unfortunately, in the early
                    1800s, the popular understanding of medicine was often more
                    medieval than modern: treatments advocated by the Greek
                    physician Galen were still alive in Drake's "interior
                    valley." Bleeding, purging, and an ancient pharmacopoeia
                    were the rule. Both physicians and folk doctors aimed at
                    balancing the body's humors and knew neither the origins of
                    their treatments nor the bases for their presumed efficacy.
                    Diagnosis was based upon slender findings, and diseases were
                    classified, not by etiology or pathology, but by prominent
                    symptoms, such as fevers, fluxes, and the locations of pain.
                    Too often efficacy was judged by improvement in individual
                    patients rather than by the collected results of systematic
                    trials, and the placebo effect was not recognized. Most of
                    the sick never saw a physician.
                In such a medical climate appeared the mysterious disease
                    which came to be called milk sickness. Ordinary settlers and
                    their doctors found it unpredictable, untreatable, and
                    highly fatal. Milk sickness killed many, frightened more,
                    and caused local economic crises. Villages and farms were
                    abandoned; livestock died; entire families were killed.
                    Migration to areas thought to be safer became common. And
                    then the disease almost disappeared without any special
                    preventive actions, at least without any targeted at its
                    eradication. Its disappearance would prove to be a
                    consequence of the progress of midwestern civilization and
                    advances in agriculture.
                THE FIRST REPORTS OF MILK SICKNESS
                In 1810, Daniel Drake wrote an extensive essay on 
                        Cincinnati
                     and its environment. In an appendix, he
                    included an 1809 report by a Dr. Barbee of 
                        Virginia
                    , who had visited southwestern 
                        Ohio
                    . Barbee described a potentially new disease,
                    with a clinical constellation of weakness, muscular pain,
                    vomiting, severe constipation, disagreeable breath,
                    lassitude, coma, and death. He observed a similar disorder
                    in cows, horses, sheep, and dogs. Pioneer farmers called the
                    sickness "the trembles," because their animals became feeble
                    and trembled when they exerted themselves. The condition
                    generally occurred in oak forests and valleys. Drake
                    reproduced Barbee's entire report "so that physicians may
                    determine how far it deserves the appellation of a new
                    disease." Drake and Barbee were the first to describe milk
                    sickness, although neither knew of  its association with milk. The
                    disease was first called "sick stomach," or the "puking
                    illness," and later, the "slows."1
                
                In the same year, according to a later published history,
                    milk sickness was common in 
                        Champaign County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . Its cause was unknown, but certain localities
                    were known to be loci of the disease. County resident Henry
                    Basome moved three times to escape the disease but succumbed
                    to it before he could make a fourth move.2
                
                In 1811, the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Liberty Hall carried a front-page article
                    on milk sickness. It reported observations by Alexander
                    Telford and Arthur Stewart, both of 
                        Miami County
                    , that clearly tied "sick stomach" to milk from
                    cows not confined to cultivated pastures. They also noted
                    that horses allowed to graze in the woods died in numbers,
                    and they proposed that the stomachs of animals dead from the
                    "trembles" be examined to see hat plant might have been
                    responsible. Had their advice been followed, an
                    understanding of the disease might have come much
                        earlier.3
                
                In 1812, the Liberty Hall article was
                    republished verbatim in the Medical
                    Repository of 
                        New York
                    , but despite the spread of this report, many
                    early descriptions of mortality indicate that pioneer
                    farmers and woodsmen living in their isolated cabins from
                    the Appalachians to the Mississippi
                    River, from lower 
                        Michigan
                     to northern 
                        Alabama
                    , had not yet learned the possible cause of the
                        disease.4 The information published
                    in the 
                        Cincinnati
                     newspaper seems not to have been widely known.
                    Physicians were rare throughout the frontier and few of them
                    were welleducated-most had preceptorial training or had
                    attended only a brief medical course. Medical journals were
                    even rarer. The Medical Repository was the
                    first American medical journal, begun in 
                        New York
                     in 1797. In its second year its total
                    circulation was only about 300, and it must not have had an
                    extensive circulation in the West.
                MILK SICKNESS ON THE MIDWEST FRONTIER
                On their own, the pioneers learned that the sick stomach was
                    different from the usual fatal diseases characterized by
                    fluxes, fevers, or 
                        
                            1 Daniel Drake, Notes Concerning 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 (Quarterly Publication of the
                                Historical and Philosophical Society ohio,
                            vol. 3; 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1908), Part 1, appendix 1.
                        
                            2 Evan P. Middleton, ed., History of 
                                    Champaign
                                    County
                                , 
                                    Ohio
                                , 2 vols. (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1917), 1:198.
                        
                            3
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Liberty Hall, January 16, 1811.
                        
                            4
                            Medical Repository (
                                New York
                            ), 1812, 15:92-94.
                    
                     rashes. They learned to
                    look to the symptoms of their farm animals first. The
                    sickness occurred where grazing animals or their suckling
                    offspring developed the "trembles," characterized by
                    weakness, shaking, and finally death.
                One of the pioneer families who learned about milk sickness
                    through direct experience was the Thomas Lincoln family of
                    southern Indiana. In the summer of 1816, Thomas and Nancy
                    Hanks Lincoln, with their two children, a cousin, and later
                    Mrs. Lincoln's uncle and aunt, settled in the woods near
                    Pigeon Creek, in what is now 
                        Spencer County
                    . At first, they subsisted on what they could
                    hunt, gather, and fish. Their first dwelling was a lean-to
                    enclosed on three sides with skins to cover the open south
                    side. A log cabin was built some months later. In the autumn
                    of 1818, a cluster of neighbors died-all of the same
                    disease. Among the dead were Nancy's aunt and uncle, and
                    then Nancy Lincoln herself. She left behind a husband and
                    children, including Abraham, not quite ten years old.
                There are no contemporaneous accounts of Nancy Lincoln's
                    illness, but in the 1870s, her cousin, Dennis Hanks, who had
                    lived in the Lincoln cabin for many years, confirmed that
                    she died of milk sickness. His diagnosis, of course, was
                    based only on pioneer medical lore and his memory of the
                    disease. He also recalled that the family left Indiana for 
                        Illinois
                     to escape the endemic illness.5 It is quite likely that in 1818, the Lincoln family
                    did not know what had killed Abraham's mother, as fatal
                    mini-epidemics often occurred without clearly established
                        cause.6
                
                Long after the Lincolns departed for 
                        Illinois
                    , milk sickness persisted in Indiana. In the
                    southern region of the state, the disease remained endemic
                    along the road from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                    , especially in the area of French Lick, where
                    the chronic form was called the "slows." In 1832 in 
                        Fountain County
                    , Mary Hovey wrote to her sister in 
                        New York
                     that the disease prevailed in that part of the
                    state, but never in the prairies or groves.7 In 1838, sixty people died of the illness in
                    Hendricks 
                        
                            5 Douglas L. Wilson and Rodney
                            O. Davis, eds., Herndon's Informants:
                                Letters, Interviews, and Statements about
                                Abraham Lincoln (
                                Chicago
                            , 1998), 39-42. The Lincolns moved to 
                                Illinois
                             in 1830.
                        
                            6 In the twentieth century,
                            Indiana established a memorial at the site of
                            Lincoln's boyhood. It was made part of the National
                            Park Service in 1962.
                        
                            7 Mary Hover to Sister, March
                            15, 1832, Hovey Collection, Folder III, 175 (Indiana
                            State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                    
                    
                    
                        The white snakeroot plant Courtesy of
                            the author
                     County; the next year, fifty died in 
                        Danville
                    . From 1830 to 1840 Dr. W. Bunnel of 
                        Milton
                     reported treating as many as five to six cases
                    of milk sickness at any one time. In 1841, Benjamin Russell
                    of 
                        Vermillion County
                     wrote to an 
                        Indianapolis
                     acquaintance that the disease was well
                    developed on both sides of the Wabash
                    River from its mouth upwards for one hundred
                    miles. Russell wrote that he planned to move elsewhere to
                    protect his family. In DuBois County, more than half of all
                    of the recorded deaths in the early nineteenth century were
                    due to milk sickness. Other affected states had similar
                        experiences.8
                
                
                    
                        8 Edwin Lincoln Moseley, Milk Sickness Caused by White
                        Snakeroot(Bowling Green, 
                            Ohio
                        , 1841); G. W. H. Kemper, A
                            Medical History of the State of Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1911), 133; F. Russell Benjamin to William
                        H. English, July 5, 1841, English Collection, Box 1,
                        Folder 3 (Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ).
                
                
                Over the first half of the nineteenth century, numerous
                    publications described the disease, and the "sick stomach"
                    evolved into milk sickness. There were still more questions
                    than answers: what was its cause? How could it be prevented?
                    How could it be treated? In all, a period of 150 years would
                    pass while research scientists and physicians discovered the
                    answers to every question.
                Milk sickness is a vegetable poisoning caused by tremetol, an
                    alcohol found in the white snakeroot plant. Grazing animals,
                    allowed to feed in the woods, ate the plant. Humans then
                    acquired the disease by drinking the milk or eating the meat
                    of affected animals. Tremetol poisoning produces a
                    biochemical defect, the suppression of citric synthetase, an
                    intracellular enzyme that introduces certain acid food
                    fragments into one of the vital energy producing cycles.
                    Patients fatally affected with tremetol poisoning accumulate
                    the acid substances normally metabolized for energy. The
                    ensuing excess acid produces an acidosis much like diabetic
                    acidosis, formerly a common, highly fatal complication of
                    severe diabetes mellitus.
                Milk sickness had a spotty distribution; occasionally the
                    afflicted areas were quite small (40 to 50 acres). Forested
                    areas, especially hill slopes and valleys, were especially
                    dangerous. The sickness occurred most often in spring and
                    summer. Dry summers, with thinning and browning pasture
                    grasses, were particularly troublesome. The primary animals
                    affected were grazers: cattle, sheep, horses, and deer. When
                    pastures browned, unfenced herbivores ate what they could
                    find. When these animals became affected, the carnivores who
                    fed on their carcasses could also contract the disease.
                    Humans could then be sickened by ingesting tainted milk,
                    butter, cheese, or meat.
                Three to ten days after ingesting infected animal materials,
                    humans began to show symptoms: vomiting, abdominal pain,
                    severe constipation, and fatigue. Over the next few days the
                    patient would fall into a stupor, and perhaps from there
                    into a coma and death. One of the most characteristic
                    symptoms of the sickness was an offensive odor of the
                    patient's breath, often so strong that it could be detected
                    on entering a frontier cabin (doctors would discover much
                    later that the odor was produced by acetone.) Treatments
                    were varied and widely proclaimed, but none was specific and
                    none effective. Purging the bowels with calomel, sedation
                    with opium and/or alcohol, and bleeding were common. Those
                    who did not die quickly usually recovered, albeit slowly.
                    Some had protracted weakness and/or relapse precipitated by
                    exercise or unrelated, otherwise mild diseases. Others were
                    disabled with fatigue and  weakness for weeks or even months. This extended form of
                    the disease was called "the slows."
                FINDING THE CAUSE AND THE TREATMENT
                After Telford and Stewart reported their findings in an 1811 
                        Cincinnati
                     newspaper, there were other early, partially
                    successful attempts to understand and contain milk sickness.
                    Settlers in 
                        Franklin County, Tennessee
                    , observed that when they confined their cattle
                    they also reduced the incidence of milk sickness. One group
                    fenced off an entire slope of a local extension of the
                    Cumberland Mountains, and in 1821, the 
                        Tennessee
                     legislature responded to their success by
                    obligating local authorities to maintain the fences.9 In 1827 
                        Kentucky
                     also took some action at the state level,
                    offering a reward to anyone who could prove a cause for the
                    disease. By 1840, however, Drake was able to note that the
                    reward had not been claimed.10
                
                Sometime after 1828 an 
                        Illinois
                     pioneer physician named Anna Pierce Hobbs
                    recorded that she was told by an Indian woman that a
                    creeping plant known as white snakeroot, Eupatorium ageratoides, was poisonous. The doctor
                    educated her neighbors about the problem, even growing a
                    garden of snakeroot so that people could identify the plant.
                    Hobbs and most others apparently did not realize, however,
                    that she had found the cause of milk sickness.11
                
                In 1840 W J. Barbee, "late of Marshall, 
                        Illinois
                    ," published an outstanding description of the
                    setting and mortality of the disease. He reported that Dr.
                    David Dale Owen, the Indiana state geologist and a medical
                    school graduate, had been given by a 
                        Vigo County
                     farmer a plant that was said to be the cause of
                    milk sickness. Owen identified the plant at Eupatorium ageratoides and gave a decoction of the
                    plant to a calf that died of the trembles shortly
                    thereafter. Despite the publication 
                        
                            9 W. W. Lea, "Cursory Remarks on
                            a disease vulgarly called "milk-sickness," Philosophical journal of the Medical
                                and Physical Society, vol. 2,50-55.
                        
                            10 Daniel Drake, "A Memoir on
                            the Diseases Called by the People "Trembles," and
                            the "Sick Stomach" or "Milk Sickness," Western Journal of Medicine and Surgery
                            (March 1841), 3:162.
                        
                            11 W. D. Snively and L. Furbee,
                            "The Discoverer of the Cause of Milk Sickness,"Journal of the American Medical
                                Association, 196 (No. 12, 1966), 1055-60;
                            Elihu N. Hall, Ballads from the
                            Bluffs (Elizabethtown, 111., 1948).
                    
                     of these facts, other
                    medical experts were conducting their own research and
                    arriving at other theories.12
                
                Up to the mid-nineteenth century, there were three principal
                    thoughts as to the cause of milk sickness: miasma, metallic
                    poison, or vegetable poison. The seasonal nature of the
                    disease argued against a metallic cause. Later, bacterial
                    infection was strongly considered, and some scientists even
                    cultured bacteria which they named Bacillus
                        lactomorbus. But by 1840, the vegetable origin for
                    the disease was fairly well accepted. Several plants were
                    suspect: poison oak, white snakeroot, wild parsnip, and
                    others. In 1841, Drake argued for poison oak as the
                        cause.13 More than one early
                    scientist conducted tests by feeding animals: white
                    snakeroot appeared to produce the disease in sheep, but
                    poison oak could also produce the same symptoms. George
                    Graff, of Edgar County, 
                        Illinois
                    , also writing in 1841, expressed the
                    frustration of many physicians and scientists. He argued
                    that the disease had been known since the early eighteenth
                    century, citing the writings of a French missionary who
                    described it in cattle, but that
                
                    [Olccurring as the milk sickness universally does in our
                        frontier settlements, where medicine as a science is in
                        its infancy, and its practice too much in the hands of
                        the ignorant, we have imperfect accounts of the
                        affection, either as regards its history, symptoms, or
                        methods of cure.14
                    
                
                Curiously, given the number of individual physicians writing
                    about the disease, milk sickness almost escaped attention in
                    most nineteenth-century American medical textbooks. One
                    early text from 1845 did not mention it; another from 1848
                    cited Drake's comments.15 For the rest
                    of the century, almost all medical texts (written, not
                    coincidentally, east of the Alleghenies where, milk sickness
                    was unknown) ignored the 
                        
                            12 W J. Barbee, "Facts Relating
                            to the Endemic Disease Called by the People of the
                            West, Milksickness," Western Journal of
                                Medicine and Surgery (1840), 2:178-90.
                        
                            13 Drake, "A Memoir on the
                            Diseases," 161-226.
                        
                            14 G. B. Graff, "On the Milk
                            Sickness of the West," American Journal
                                of the Medical Society 1 (1841), 351-69.
                        
                            15 Robley Dunglison, The Practice of Medicine: A Treatise on
                                Special Pathology and Therapeutics, 2 vols.
                            (3d ed., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1848), 2:450-57.
                    
                     disease. An important
                    exception was George B. Wood's textbook issued in 
                        Philadelphia
                     in several editions beginning in the 1840s. In
                    his fifth edition, published in 1858, Wood stated that he
                    had never seen a case of milk sickness, but he included
                    seven pages of discussion on the disease and quoted
                    important authors on the subject.16 In
                    1892, William Osler included the disease in his textbook,
                    although he probably never saw a patient who had it. Osier's
                    influence was so great that milk sickness was included in
                    textbooks for the next seventy-five years.17 In retrospect, it seems strange that early texts
                    omitted milk sickness at a time when the disease was common.
                    After Osier, the disease commonly appeared in American
                    medical texts but had become rare in the real world.
                In 1852, the Indiana State Medical Society formed a committee
                    to develop survey data, based on county-by-county physician
                    surveys, about milk sickness. The next year, Sutton reported
                    that the committee had begun its study, but it seems not to
                    have issued a report.18 An 1858 report
                    of the 
                        Ohio
                     State Board of Agriculture gave a detailed
                    description of white snakeroot's role in causing the
                    trembles and milk sickness. The report included an
                    illustration and description of the plant (now referred to
                    as Eupatorium urticaefolium). The report
                    also contained a letter from W. J. Vermilya of Ashland
                    County, who outlined feeding experiments which demonstrated
                    the poisonous nature of white snakeroot.19 One year later, Richard Owen, professor of geology
                    at Indiana University (and later first president of Purdue
                    University), traveled through southern Indiana to conduct
                    his own survey. He reported that "milk sickness prevails in 
                        Brookville
                    , near 
                        New Castle
                     and 
                        Greencastle
                    .20
                
                Owen's survey confirmed that, despite increasing knowledge of
                    the cause of milk sickness, many rural families were still
                    being affected by 
                        
                            16 George B. Wood, A Treatise on the Practice of
                            Medicine, 2 vols. (5th ed., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1858), 1:460-67.
                        
                            17 William Osier, The Principles
                            and Practice of Medicine (1st ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1892), 266.
                        
                            18 G. Sutton, "Preliminary
                            Report on Milk Sickness as it Prevails in Indiana,"
                                Proceedings of the Indiana State
                                Medical Society (1853), 176-78. By 1873 the
                            Society, using the same type of survey, reported no
                            milk sickness in the state. G. Sutton, "Diseases of
                            Indiana for 1872," Proceedings of the
                                Indiana State Medical Society (1873), 61.
                        
                            19 "Milk Sickness," Annual Report of the 
                                    Ohio
                                 State Board of Agriculture
                            (1858), 670-75. Vermilya also cited an earlier 1839
                            trial in which John Rowe of 
                                Fayette County
                             was able to kill cattle by feeding them
                                Eupatorium ageratoides.
                        
                        
                            20 R. Owen, Survey of Indiana,
                            Second Notebook, Fall 1859, Owens Collection, S1036
                            (Indiana State Library).
                    
                     the disease. In 1859
                    three children of the Charles Crist family in 
                        Randolph County
                     died of milk sickness. In 1862, the disease was
                    apparently still endemic along portions of the
                        Wabash River. In a letter to her
                    grandparents, Mary Bell Wilson of Lockport, in 
                        Carroll County
                    , wrote that "a disease called milk sickness
                    carried off a good many people last fall. Three buried from
                    one family in a single week." In 1869, one case of direct
                    snakeroot poisoning of a human was reported. A farmer who
                    gathered nettles for a pot of "greens" included white
                    snakeroot among them. He became ill with milk sickness
                    within a few hours. His wife, who did not like greens and
                    refused to eat them, remained well.21
                
                THE DECLINE OF MILK SICKNESS
                During the period from 1850 to 1900, milk sickness became
                    less common. The degree to which this change was driven by
                    the spread of information is impossible to determine. The
                    trend, however, paralleled the organization of midwestern
                    farmlands into defined fields and fenced pastures, as well
                    as the emerging industrialization of agriculture. The
                    illness also disappeared much more quickly in the towns and
                    cities where milk was coming from larger, "tamer" farm
                    pastures. Perhaps, as well, dairy practices that pooled milk
                    from many individual farms tended to dilute the poison.
                By 1900, milk sickness was uncommon, although reports of
                    individual cases continued to appear in medical journals. In
                    1917 C. Dwight Marsh reported the results of his extensive
                    toxicity study, confirming the toxicity of white snakeroot.
                    Ten years later, J. F. Couch identified the toxic component
                    of white snakeroot as an alcohol that he named tremetol, to
                    reflect its role in causing trembles.22
                    Doctors had also become more confident about treating the
                    disease in humans, based on their knowledge that milk
                    sickness produced ketoacidosis, a severe metabolic acidosis
                    much like the acidosis of severe, complicated diabetes
                    mellitus. W. E. Walsh of Morris County, 
                        Illinois
                    , reported in 1909 that he had 
                        
                            21 E. Tucker, History of 
                                    Randolph
                                    County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1882), 370; Mary Bell Wilson letter,
                            January 15, 1862, Pierce-Kruell Collection, L180
                            (Indiana State Library); William Jerrey, A Treatise
                            on the Cause and Cure of the Milk Sickness (
                                St. Louis
                            , 1869).
                        
                            22 C. D. Marsh, "Eupatorium
                            urticaefolium as a Poisonous Plant," Journal of Agricultural Research 11
                            (December 1917), 699-716; J. F. Couch, "The Toxic
                            Constituent of Rockweed or White Snakeroot," Journal of Agricultural Research
                            35 (September 1927), 547-76.
                    
                     treated more than
                    thirty-eight cases of milk sickness during his practice.
                    Most of the infected dairy products came from two small,
                    local farms- one forty acres, one less. His successful
                    treatments had come to include clysters of sodium chloride
                    and sodium "carbonate." In 1914 Dr. Arthur 
                        Clay
                     reported that he had "had it personally" and
                    related that sodium carbonate administered rectally every 2
                    hours was an effective treatment. Walsh wrote another report
                    on milk sickness in 1930, confirming that cases still
                    occurred in his home of Morris County, and noting that
                    acetone and diacetic acid were now regularly found in the
                    urine of milk sickness patients and reporting the use of
                    sodium bicarbonate in large doses as his preferred
                        treatment.23 Both 
                        Clay
                    's and Walsh's treatments were ideal for the
                    correction of acidosis before intravenous therapy was
                    possible or common.
                In 1963, the last reported humans with milk sickness were
                    treated in 
                        St. Louis, Missouri
                    .24 Both of the patients
                    were infants. Terribly ill at admission, they were rapidly
                    found to have a severe metabolic acidosis whose cause was
                    unknown. They responded slowly to large quantities of
                    intravenous bicarbonate. The rapidity of the diagnosis of
                    the metabolic derangement and its successful treatment would
                    have bewildered the pioneers and their physicians. Although
                    those who treated the children did not immediately know the
                    cause of the metabolic derangement, they successfully
                    treated the condition based upon the abnormal laboratory
                    tests. When an older physician recalled a patient with milk
                    sickness from his earlier years of practice, careful inquiry
                    disclosed that the children had been drinking specially
                    obtained milk, provided by a farmer who allowed his cows to
                    graze in a nearby woods where white snakeroot grew in
                    abundance. This set of concurrences led to a convincing
                        diagnosis.25
                
                
                    
                        23 W. E. Walsh, "Clinical Report of
                        Reappearance of Milk Sickness," 
                            Illinois
                        
                        Medical Journal 15 (1909), 522-25; A.
                        Clay, "Personal and Clinical Experience with Milk
                        Sickness," 
                            Illinois
                        
                        Medical Journal 26 (1914), 103-109.
                    
                        24 A. E Hartman, Sr., et al.,
                        "Tremetol Poisoning Not Yet Extinct," Journal of the American Medical Association
                        185 (1963), 706-709. Other cases have probably occurred
                        but have either gone unreported or were not recognized.
                    
                        25 Each child had become quite ill
                        late in the season, after the first hard frost, an
                        unusual time for milk sickness. Each illness had started
                        with an intercurrent infection, one respiratory and one
                        diarrheal. Reawakening of milk sickness was common and
                        probably accounted for most "off season"
                    episodes.
                
                
                Biochemists had been working since the 1950s to understand
                    the chemical basis of tremetol poisoning. In 1963, synthesis
                    of a tremetol ketone was reported. This tremetone lacked
                    toxicity though the related crude tremetol remained toxic.
                    Finally in 1973, using chickens, C. H. Wu demonstrated that
                    tremetol poisoning caused selective suppression of the
                    activity of the enzyme citric synthetase, and consequent
                    inability to process food fragments presented for energy
                    production. The consequence was chemical starvation and
                    accumulation of acid materials producing overall body acid
                        excess.26
                
                In 1983, four horses in 
                        Greene County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , died of tremetol poisoning, known to cause the
                    trembles in cattle and horses. Researchers at the 
                        Ohio
                     State University College of Veterinary Medicine
                    studied the animals and found that their pasture had large
                    amounts of heavily grazed white snakeroot.27
                
                At the beginning of the twenty-first century, milk sickness
                    seems to be long gone. Yet the white snakeroot plant is
                    still growing in the Midwest, especially at the edges of
                    wooded areas.28 The 1960s 
                        St. Louis
                     case illustrates the hazard of ignoring the
                    risks to be found in "natural" milk.
                The early settlers of the midwestern woods learned, through
                    long and torturous experience, both the source of milk
                    sickness and the method of its prevention, long before
                    physicians and researchers discovered the specific poison.
                    But new medical information spread slowly in
                    nineteenth-century cities, towns, and farms. Milk sickness
                    shaped the lives of many generations of Hoosiers and other
                    midwesterners before it began to disappear late in the
                    nineteenth century. The "slows" are just one example of the
                    challenges of pioneer life before organized research,
                    biochemistry, and molecular biology were available to solve
                    medical mysteries.
                
                    
                        26 C. H. Wu, "Metabolic Changes
                        Induced in Chickens by the Administration of Tremetol,"
                            Biochemical Pharmacology 22
                        (1973), 2835-41.
                    
                        27 C. T. Olson, et al., "Suspected
                        Tremetol Poisoning in Horses," Journal of
                            the American Veterinary Medical Association 185
                        (November 1984), 1001-03. In the southwestern 
                            United States
                        , the rayless goldenrod, Apolopappus heterophyllus, also containing
                        tremetol, has been incriminated in trembles fatalities
                        in horses and cattle.
                    
                        28 White snakeroot still grows
                        freely throughout the southern Indiana woods, even
                        within twenty feet of the putative grave of Nancy
                        Lincoln. A beautiful stand of white snakeroot is visible
                        within one hundred feet of the porch at the Inn at
                        McCormick's Creek State Park, 
                            Spencer
                        , Indiana.
                
            
            
            
                REVIEWS
                REVIEW ESSAY: UNDERSTANDING LINCOLN
                
                    Lincoln's Quest for Equality The Road to 
                            Gettysburg
                        
                    , By Carl F. Wieck, (
                        DeKalb
                    : Northern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 2002. Pp. x, 214.
                    Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $36.00.)
                
                    Abraham Lincoln's Political Faith, By
                    Joseph R. Fornieri, (
                        DeKalb
                    : Northern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 2003. Pp. x, 209. Notes,
                    selected bibliography, index. $38.00.)
                
                    Freedom, Union, and Power Lincoln and His Party
                        in the Civil War, By Michael Green, (
                        New York
                    : Fordham University Press, 2004. Pp. xvii, 398.
                    Notes, bibliography, index. $65.00.)
                The political career of Abraham Lincoln is a subject of
                    perennial interest among scholars and the American public.
                    The rise of this obscure 
                        Illinois
                     lawyer and legislator to the office of
                    President as the 
                        United States
                     dissolved into civil warfare remains a dramatic
                    and multifaceted story. Because he skillfully led the nation
                    through its greatest crisis and was swept from office by an
                    assassins bullet, his life and career continue to intrigue,
                    inspire, and invite further investigation. These three
                    volumes all examine aspects of the politics and ideology of
                    Abraham Lincoln and the Republican Party in the 1850s and
                    1860s. Although none of these volumes introduces a large
                    corpus of new material, each offers a new perspective on the
                    origins and development of Lincoln's political ideas.
                
                Carl E Wieck's volume, Lincoln's Quest for
                        Equality: The Road to 
                            Gettysburg
                        , is devoted to demonstrating that the
                    abolitionist Unitarian minister Theodore Parker had a
                    profound effect on Lincoln's thought during the 1850s and
                    that this influence is most pronounced in Lincoln's "House
                    Divided" speech of 1858 and in his 
                        Gettysburg
                     Address of 1863. Wieck insists that Lincoln
                    drew more than simply the phrasing of "a government of the
                    people, by the people, and for the people" from Parker. The
                    vehicle for this transfer of ideas was William H. Herndon,
                    Lincoln's third law partner. Herndon was a frequent
                    correspondent with Parker, and Parker sent copies of some of
                    his published sermons to Herndon. Wieck considers Parker's
                    1854 "Sermon of the Dangers which Threaten the Rights of Man
                    in America" as a key influence on both the House Divided
                    speech and the 
                        Gettysburg
                     Address. Establishing this connection is
                    important, Wieck argues, because it suggests that Lincoln
                    had stronger and earlier ties to abolitionism than scholars
                    have appreciated.
                Unfortunately, Wieck's argument rests on a series of
                    suppositions couched in conjectural phrases. That Lincoln
                    and Herndon were partners and that Herndon and Parker were
                    correspondents is evident from the historical record. That
                    Herndon shared Parker's 1854 sermon with Lincoln is
                    certainly possible and perhaps probable, but it is difficult
                    to demonstrate that these conditions yielded substantial
                    influence on Lincoln's political thought. Wieck even
                    suggests that Herndon carefully concealed Parker's influence
                    on Lincoln to protect the latter from the stigma of
                    abolitionism: "No revealing paper trail can be allowed to
                    exist" (p. 69).
                Wieck's exercise in tracing the intellectual influence of
                    Theodore Parker on Abraham Lincoln is ultimately
                    unconvincing because he relies too heavily on supposition to
                    connect historical dots. More importantly, Wieck fails to
                    explain how the knowledge of Parker's greater influence on
                    Lincoln changes our understanding of Lincoln's political
                    thought. The conclusion that "Lincoln was never deaf to
                    abolitionist voices" (p. 176) is not new, nor is the
                    assertion that Lincoln moved toward more radical solutions
                    to the problem of slavery over the course of his career and
                    his presidency.
                Joseph Fornieri's study of Abraham Lincoln's
                        Political Faith offers a fresh perspective on
                    Lincoln's political thought by examining its religious
                    underpinnings. Fornieri argues that Lincoln's political
                    faith "combined the biblical tradition of Judeo-Christianity
                    and the American republican tradition of self-government"
                    (p. 6). This "biblical republicanism" combined these two
                    important currents in American political thought to justify
                    American self-government. Fornieri departs from some Lincoln
                    scholars in insisting that "a genuine biblical ethos
                    informed Lincoln's politics," not merely as a means to
                    persuade voters, but "essentially, as a teaching that  conveyed a profound
                    truth revealed by the Bible and applicable to public life"
                    (p. 48).
                Lincoln aimed his harshest criticism at those who "exploited
                    the Bible" to support the "grave evil of slavery" (p. 77).
                    He saw proslavery theology as a rival political faith that
                    vied for authority in the public arena as the nations civil
                    theology. According to Fornieri, Lincoln viewed slavery, the
                    Declaration of Independence, and the Union through "a
                    biblical view of human nature and equality" (p. 133).
                Within this interpretive framework, Fornieri examines several
                    of Lincoln's landmark speeches, including the Lyceum
                    Address, his 1854 speech at Peoria, the 
                        Gettysburg
                     Address, and the Second Inaugural, "the
                    crowning achievement and ultimate expression of his
                    political faith" (p. 165). Fornieri convincingly reevaluates
                    the intersection of Lincoln's political and religious views.
                    Behind the biblical republicanism Lincoln espoused, Fornieri
                    posits that Lincoln had a strong personal faith. He rejects
                    the idea that Lincoln used biblical language and imagery
                    merely as rhetorical conventions or as the lingua franca of
                    his audience. Along the way, Fornieri makes the valuable
                    point that Lincoln's alleged youthful "infidelity" may have
                    been his advocacy of the concept of universal salvation. To
                    be sure, this view was unorthodox and would have caused
                    candidate Lincoln trouble with his devout neighbors, but it
                    was far from the deism, agnosticism, or even atheism that
                    many have assumed it to be. By the time he became president,
                    Lincoln had developed "a profound religious belief,"
                    assisted in his spiritual journey by Presbyterian pastors in 
                        Springfield
                     and 
                        Washington
                     (p. 50).
                For Fornieri, the form of Lincoln's political faith was
                    "biblical republicanism" and its end or purpose was "liberty
                    and Union" (p. 13). Freedom and Union formed the core of the
                    Republican party's ideology, according to Michael Green's
                    study of Freedom, Union, and Power: Lincoln and
                        His Party in the Civil War. Green's purpose is to
                    illuminate Republicans' "central faith," the core beliefs
                    that united former Whigs, Democrats, Free Soilers, and Know
                    Nothings into a coherent political party from 1861 to 1865.
                    Green asserts that three words capture the essence of
                    Republicans' shared beliefs: freedom, union, and power. To
                    preserve the Union, Republicans had to exercise power and
                    perhaps restrict freedom, but if they failed to maintain the
                    Union, both freedom and their own political power would
                    suffer. The three strands were inseparable, and Republicans
                    had to prioritize and reevaluate the demands of each element
                    of their ideology many times during the war.
                Republican leaders, Green admits, "disagreed over which issue
                    mattered more at a certain time, how much to do about it,
                    and which branch of government should do it" (p. 21).
                    Although Green focuses on a wide array of Republican
                    leaders, he concludes 
                    that Lincoln was "the lynchpin or centerpiece of his party's
                    thought" (p. 30). Ultimately, Green argues, the ideology
                    that united Republicans mattered more than the quarrels that
                    divided them. When Lincoln was considering a new appointment
                    to the cabinet, "ideology was no problem, because however
                    much they disagreed, Republicans ultimately agreed on that
                    score" (p. 116). Divisions within the cabinet "were disputes
                    over the means to be used to reach the party's ends (p.
                    126).
                Green's focus on the central themes of Republicans' wartime
                    ideology is valuable, but it often obscures significant
                    differences. He writes: "Party members divided on how and
                    whether the Constitution could be changed with eleven states
                    in rebellion, and on what steps the federal government could
                    take under the Constitution. These were ideological
                    questions, rooted in legitimate arguments over the speed of
                    and responsibility for protecting and expanding freedom,
                    preserving the Union, and using power in their behalf. Those
                    differences concerned the how, when, and whether of such
                    actions, not the actions themselves" (p. 179). Differences
                    over "whether" certain actions should be taken seem
                    fundamental and not merely quibbles over the ends employed
                    to reach a common goal.
                Green's explanation of what united most Republicans into a
                    functioning party is a valuable addition to the literature
                    on Civil War politics, but his attachment to his
                    interpretive framework masks real and substantive
                    differences. Some of the Republicans he describes differed
                    over more than just means to common ends; they maintained
                    substantially different visions of what the nation and the
                    Republican Party should be. Those Republicans who favored
                    full citizenship and voting rights for freedpeople differed
                    in more than just degree from those Republicans who wanted
                    nothing more than the destruction of slavery. Green's
                    continuous use of his tripartite formula often makes his
                    interpretation seem forced upon the evidence rather than
                    emerging from it; virtually every chapter and many sections
                    and paragraphs end with the refrain of "freedom, union, and
                    power."
                These three volumes suggest both the promises and pitfalls of
                    interpreting Lincoln's and the Republican Party's ideology
                    in the tumultuous 1860s. Wieck claims for Theodore Parker a
                    larger influence on the thought and speeches of Abraham
                    Lincoln than has previously been acknowledged, but his
                    argument rests as much on the absence of evidence and on
                    suppositions as it does on solid sources. Fornieri offers a
                    novel perspective on familiar sources, and in doing so
                    provides a compelling and convincing view of Lincoln's
                    synthesis of Christianity and republicanism into a powerful
                    civil religion that carried the nation through its fiery
                    trial. Green examines the ideology of the diverse members of
                    the Republican coalition that governed the Union  during the Civil War and finds
                    that they agreed on the broad concepts of freedom, union,
                    and power. Although he too often overlooks real differences
                    among Republicans, his analysis ultimately underscores
                    Lincoln's remarkable achievement in holding this disparate
                    political party together long enough to save the Union and
                    expand the scope of freedom in America to encompass millions
                    of enslaved people. Asking fresh questions about Lincoln's
                    political ideas can yield new insights. When the sources
                    these authors have assembled support their interpretations,
                    they have succeeded in expanding our understanding; when
                    they venture beyond their sources or allow interpretations
                    to overwhelm these sources, their conclusions are far less
                    convincing.
                DANIEL W. STOWELL is the director and editor of the
                    Papers of Abraham Lincoln. He is the editor of The Papers of Abraham Lincoln: Legal Documents and
                        Cases, 4 vols, (forthcoming) and In
                        Tender Consideration: Women, Families, and the Law in
                        Abraham Lincoln's 
                            Illinois
                        
                     (2002). This is the second of his two IMH review essays on recent Lincoln
                scholarship.
            
            
                
                    Benjamin Harrison, By Charles W. Calhoun, (
                        New York
                    : Henry Holt & Co., 2005. Notes,
                    selected bibliography, index, S20.00
                Benjamin Harrison has long suffered in the shadows of
                    obscurity. Memorable to some as the grandson of a president,
                    others might recall him as the person holding office between
                    Grover 
                        Cleveland
                    's non-consecutive terms. A victor in the
                    electoral college but loser of the popular vote in 1888, his
                    was a presidency that many Americans have decided to forget.
                    Yet Harrison has found a sympathetic biographer in Charles
                    Calhoun. The result is a careful portrait which is
                    accessible in both substance and style to a wide array of
                    audiences.
                Calhoun's main argument is that Harrison pointed the way to
                    the modern presidency, having "unwittingly taught his
                    successors new uses of power and techniques of leadership"
                    (p. 166). Although he was hampered by circumstance, and
                    while he operated in an era known for weak presidencies,
                    Harrison, like other Gilded Age politicians, was more
                    interesting and effective than popular memory maintains.
                The book shines in two areas: depicting the fractious
                    relationship between Harrison and his secretary of state,
                    James G. Blaine, and chronicling the budding romance between
                    Harrison and his second wife (and niece) Mame Dimmick. In
                    both cases,  Calhoun
                    rewards readers with keen insight. Blaine is an intriguing
                    figure: Republican presidential nominee in 1884 and
                    secretary of state for James Garfield in 1881, he was widely
                    regarded as the preeminent politician of his era. He was as
                    hated as he was beloved, however, and an air of mystery
                    always surrounded the Plumed Knight. Failing health and an
                    icy relationship with Harrison meant that Blaine's service
                    as secretary of state was sporadic at best. More often than
                    not, according to Calhoun, Harrison functioned as his own
                    secretary of state.
                Calhoun's account of the Harrison-Dimmick relationship does
                    more to humanize the notably reserved Hoosier than anything
                    previously available. The niece of his first wife, Caroline,
                    Mary Scott Dimmick had first come to live with the Harrisons
                    during the presidential campaign of 1888. Thereafter a
                    frequent correspondent with the president and nursemaid to
                    her aunt as the latter's health failed in the midst of the
                    1892, Dimmick ultimately wedded her former uncle in the
                    spring of 1896.
                Circumstances and a famous name, Calhoun writes, helped to
                    elevate Harrison to the presidency. Circumstances also
                    explain, in part, why he lost the office just four years
                    later o Grover 
                        Cleveland
                    . Left underdeveloped in this volume, however,
                    is any discussion of those aspects of Harrison's character
                    that helped to undermine his effort. Calhoun acknowledges
                    Harrison's reputation for having a prickly personality (one
                    nickname not listed in the volume, for instance, was the
                    "Human Iceberg") and admits that Republican elite never felt
                    comfortable with him in office. Yet much of the problem
                    might have stemmed from Harrison's attitude toward the
                    presidency. In 1892, after losing the election, Harrison
                    admitted that he had "never enjoyed public life" (p. 151).
                    In 1896, as some devoted followers urged his renomination,
                    Harrison wrote that "There has never been an hour since I
                    left the White House that I have felt a wish to return to
                    it" (p. 161). With a chief executive who entertained such a
                    gloomy opinion (even if in retrospect) about the job, it is
                    little wonder that many Americans had, at best, little more
                    love for Benjamin Harrison when he left office than when he
                    entered.
                The Harrison that Calhoun depicts, while admittedly
                    self-righteous, was more capable than contemporaries d
                    historians have realized. Questions about the reserved
                    Harrison still abound, but Calhoun has provided the best
                    single-volume biography to date.
                EDWARD O. FRANTZ is assistant professor of History at
                    the University of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He is the author of "A March of Triumph?
                    Benjamin Harrison's Southern Tour and the Limits of Racial
                    and Regional Reconciliation," in the December 2004 IMH.
                
            
            
            
                
                    Theodore Dreiser, Interviews, Edited by
                    Frederic E. Rusch and Donald Pizer, (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 2004. Pp. xiv, 371. Illustrations,
                    bibliography, index. $50.00.)
                This volume of collected interviews represents the most
                    recent work in the steadily advancing Dreiser Edition
                    project sponsored by the University of 
                        Connecticut
                     and the University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     library. The book's editors are veteran
                    scholars who have written extensively about the Indiana-born
                    author of Sister Carrie (1900) and An American Tragedy (1925). The
                    seventy-four interviews presented here account for the most
                    important of the nearly two hundred that Dreiser gave. They
                    date from 1902 to 1946, the latest published a few months
                    after his death by one of his literary secretaries. Rusch
                    and Pizer have also provided their own excellent historical
                    commentary and textual methodology essays. In addition, the
                    editors have included an exhaustive bibliography of Dreiser
                    interviews, both those reprinted in their book and the
                    others extant but unselected.
                A host of newspaper and radio interviewers elicit Dreiser's
                    comments on a wide range of subjects including influences on
                    his writing, censorship, the arts, American consumerism, the
                    two world wars, Russian communism, leftist politics in the
                    U.S., the role of human sexuality, and Hollywood, among many
                    others. The compilation provides an important addition to
                    the Dreiser record. Read in tandem with a biography such as
                        The Last Titan: A Life of Theodore
                    Dreiser by Jerome Loving (2005), this book would equip
                    the curious with a firm grasp of the novelist's core
                    convictions. The reader also gets a feel for Dreiser's work
                    environment and personal habits, thanks to many of the
                    interviewers' recorded impressions. And because they demand
                    unrehearsed and therefore less guarded observations than do
                    other formats, these particular question-and-answe sessions
                    make for fascinating reading. In fact, if the reader assumes
                    the place of the interviewers, the experience simulates an
                    extended conversation with a highly opinionated, sometimes
                    outrageous, but always provocative companion. Moreover, the
                    book delivers valuable first-half-of-the-twentieth-century
                    historical context. Thanks to the editors' excellent
                    footnotes concerning the events and personalities Dreiser
                    mentions, the milieu in which he operated comes alive. Of
                    particular interest to Hoosier readers will be his scattered
                    remarks about Indiana, both complimentary and critical.
                The book will also supply several surprises for those whose
                    notions about Dreiser are confined to common misperceptions.
                    For example, many of the interviewers comment on his
                    generally optimistic outlook  and mostly sunny disposition, a
                    far cry from the dour determinism projected in his novels.
                    Similarly, some readers will be unprepared for the
                    complexity of his thought, which is much more nuanced than
                    widely credited even by his admirers. In addition, the
                    broadly accepted belief that he was programmatically
                    anti-Semitic may undergo some revision. The interviews are
                    sprinkled with laudatory comments about Jewish sensibilities
                    and appreciation of the arts, though his attitude toward
                    Jews did harden after his financial setback in the wake of
                    the Wall Street collapse of 1929. Readers who think
                    successful writers need a settled environment in which to
                    produce will be disabused by the number of times Dreiser
                    moved from apartments to studios to houses and back again, a
                    function of his incessant restlessness.
                Finally, some readers will be surprised to discover just how
                    highly regarded Dreiser had become by the 1940s, after the
                    tremendous popular and critical response to An
                        American Tragedy. Nearly all of his interviewers
                    proceeded from the assumption that he was the premier modern
                    American novelist, an assessment that, though seldom
                    broached today, is nonetheless still arguable. And the key
                    to his importance is signaled by a 1907 interview in which
                    he designated the subject matter that would continually
                    absorb him, "the stretching out of the fingers to grasp."
                    All of Dreiser's best writing explores the ways in which
                    desire, most often followed by disillusionment, directs our
                    lives.
                LAWRENCE E. HUSSMAN, professor emeritus at Wright State
                    University, 
                        Dayton, Ohio
                    , is author of Dreiser and His
                        Fiction: A Twentieth-Century Quest (1983) and Harbingers of a Century: The Novels of Frank
                        Norris (1998). He is currently at work on Desire and Disillusionment in American
                    Fiction.
                
            
            
                
                    The 
                            Ohio
                            Hopewell
                         Episode Paradigm Lost and Paradigm
                    Gained, By A. Martin Byers, (Akron, 
                        Ohio
                    : University of Akron Press, 2004, Pp. xvi, 674,
                    Maps illustrations, tables, notes bibliography, index.
                    $59.95.)
                The term 
                        Hopewell
                    , in its most inclusive sense, refers to a
                    series of regional prehistoric cultures that were situated
                    in the mid-continent of North America and that existed for a
                    few hundred years on either side of year zero of the Common
                    Era. These people were hunters, gatherers, fishers, and
                    horticulturalists who had domesticated several indigenous
                    plant species including sunflower, squash, goosefoot,
                    sumpweed, and, perhaps, 
                    other starchy and oily annual seed crops. The threads that
                    tied them together into a major tradition were the
                    construction of large earthworks and the fluorescence of a
                    great artistic tradition executed in stone, metal, and
                    pottery. Today, the most visible remains of these regional
                    traditions are found in southern 
                        Ohio
                    , in the valleys of the Scioto, Muskingum, and
                    Little and Great Miami Rivers. The earthworks include large
                    conical and loaf-shaped mounds that covered a variety of
                    buildings, human remains (both within and outside of
                    prepared tombs), and groups of cremations and caches of
                    artifacts. There are also large geometric earthworks, some
                    of which exceeded five meters high and enclosed up to
                    sixty-five hectares. The manner by which these earthworks
                    were constructed-the limited choice of geometric forms and
                    construction techniques-provides the empirical starting
                    point for the book's argument.
                Byers begins with an unstated premise that can be attributed
                    to the late nineteenth-century French sociologist Emile
                    Durkheim: ritual practice makes and remakes society and
                    individuals. Byers goes on to claim explicitly that 
                        Ohio
                        Hopewell
                     represented the land they occupied as a sacred
                    commons, and that they organized themselves and their
                    rituals to minimize their impact on and to renew the "Sacred
                    Earth" (p. 9). The construction of the earthworks was
                    central to such renewal. Byers postulates an age-graded
                    (younger and older) communal cult that transcended local
                    residential units, in which shamans provided esoteric ritual
                    know-how and through which competition was transcended for
                    communal ends.
                Throughout the book, Byers provides a cultural and
                    representational argument for the development and operation
                    of 
                        Ohio
                        Hopewell
                     society; he refers to his method as a
                    "hermeneutic spiral" (p. 106). In fact, he presents a series
                    of possible models and argues that if individually and
                    collectively they are wrong, then his conclusion, which is
                    left standing, must be correct. He presents earlier
                    explanations for the form and substance of 
                        Ohio
                        Hopewell
                     culture and society-ecological determinism,
                    social models based on settlement location and burial
                    attributes, and political explanations-and finds them all
                    wanting, either in part or in whole. Hence his "Inclusive
                    Territorial/Custodial Domain Paradigm" (p. 9) and his
                    Autonomous Cult Model (p. 577) must be correct.
                    Unfortunately, such induction by elimination suffers a
                    philosophical flaw-the presumption of its own conclusion-and
                    does not constitute proof for the author's arguments.
                In the end, after slogging through dense prose, numerous
                    acronyms, and too many capitalized noun phrases, the reader
                    is left with a residua of interesting insights about 
                        Ohio
                        Hopewell
                     that are not anchored in empirical
                    archaeological evidence. The recent Gathering 
                            Hopewell
                        : Society, Ritual, and Ritual
                    Interaction, edited 
                    by Christopher Carr and 
                        Troy
                     Case (2005), is a far better investment of time
                    and money for those readers seeking the state of the art in 
                        Hopewell
                     studies.
                CHRISTOPHER PEEBLES is professor of Anthrpology at
                    Indiana University 
                        Bloomington
                    .
            
            
                
                    
                        Ohio
                    's First Peoples, By James H.
                    O'Donnell, III, (
                        Athens
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     University Press, 2004. Pp. ix, 176. Maps,
                    illustrations, notes, works cited, index. Clothhound,
                    $36.95; paperbound, $17.95.)
                Understanding what happened in 
                        Ohio
                     in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth
                    century seems crucial to understanding the expansion of the
                    American frontier and the development of the nation.
                    Understanding what happened in 
                        Ohio
                     is also crucial to understanding American
                    Indian history and the dispossession of Native peoples
                    across the continent. It is important, therefore, that the
                    editors of the state's bicentennial series have included a
                    book on 
                        Ohio
                    's Indian peoples, one written by an historian
                    with long-standing expertise on the period when the contest
                    over Indian lands was at its height.
                
                    
                        Ohio
                    's First Peoples opens with a
                    short chapter on the ancient woodland cultures and the
                    apparent depopulation of the region in the seventeenth
                    century. But the narrative hits its stride when Delawares,
                    Shawnees, Wyandots, and other Indian groups reassembled in 
                        Ohio
                     by the mid-eighteenth century, just as European
                    competition for control of the region was coming to a head.
                    In a clear and concise style, O'Donnell traces the military
                    and diplomatic struggles for the Ohio
                    Valley in the French and Indian War, Pontiac's
                    Revolt, Lord Dunmore's War, and the Revolution. He then
                    traces the development of a northwestern Indian confederacy
                    that repulsed two American armies before going down to
                    defeat at Fallen Timbers and ceding most of 
                        Ohio
                     at the Treaty of Greenville in 1795. With most
                    of 
                        Ohio
                    's native peoples displaced to Indiana, another
                    movement of united Indian resistance arose in the first
                    decade of the nineteenth century, led by Tenskwatawa, known
                    as the Shawnee Prophet, and his brother Tecumseh. But by the
                    1840s, defeated in battle and dispossessed by treaties, most
                    Indian people were gone from 
                        Ohio
                    .
                This is a well-worn story that has been related by many
                    authors, but it remains so central to the history of 
                        Ohio
                     and the nation that it merits telling many
                    times. O'Donnell does not offer new interpretations, but his
                    short book provides an accessible history, spiced with
                    plenty of detail and 
                    based on a deep familiarity with the documentary sources.
                Inevitably, the narrative trails off considerably toward the
                    end of the book. The story of 
                        Ohio
                    's First Peoples has to be traced elsewhere as
                    they moved, or were removed, to new homes west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . But the Indian people who remained, and
                    remain, in 
                        Ohio
                     deserve more attention than they receive in the
                    brief "bicentennial afterthought" that closes the book. The
                    statements that there are "only a few thousand" Native
                    Americans in 
                        Ohio
                     who identify themselves as such to the U.S.
                    Census Bureau, and that there are "none who are readily
                    visible Native Americans" (p. 127) do not square with the
                    census figures from 2000 (when 24,486 Ohioans
                    self-identified as American Indian, and a further 51,589
                    self-identified as American Indian in combination with some
                    other ethnic category), and cause one to wonder "visible to
                    whom and by what criteria?" Portraying 
                        Ohio
                    's Indians so strongly as people who left, and
                    left few traces, tends to perpetuate a nineteenth-century
                    myth of disappearance and limits the book's scope and
                    effectiveness. With portraits of 
                        Ohio
                     Indians available, it is also unfortunate that
                    the publisher chose for the cover a portrait of Joseph
                    Brant, a Mohawk from 
                        New York
                    .
                COLIN G. CALLOWAY is professor of History and Samson
                    Occom Professor of Native American Studies at Dartmouth
                    College, 
                        Hanover, New Hampshire
                    . His books include The American
                        Revolution in Indian Country (1995) and One Vast Winter Count: The Native American West
                        before Lewis and Clark (2003).
            
            
                
                    Kings: The True Story of 
                            Chicago
                        's Policy Kings and Numbers Racketeers, An
                        Informal History, By Nathan Thompson, (
                        Chicago
                    : Bronzeville Press, 2003. Rev. ed. Pp. 506.
                    Illustrations, appendices, index. Paperbound, $27.00.)
                Kings is, as the book's second subtitle says, a truly
                    informal history of the shady businessmen who ran "policy
                    wheels," or underground lotteries, on 
                        Chicago
                    's South Sid.e in the first half of the
                    twentieth century. Nathan Thompson details their business
                    practices and philanthropic works, as well as the violence
                    that routinely accompanied the enterprise.
                According to Thompson, the policy industry was the largest
                    African-American-owned business in the country, with up to
                    $100 million circulating 
                    culating annually. Although much of the policy kings'
                    profits supported their lavish lifestyles and payoffs to
                    corrupt police and politicians, they also funneled money
                    back into community institutions and "race" progress. When
                    other forces-first the Mafia, and then the 
                        Illinois
                     state lottery-put the local black policy kings
                    out of business, their charitable contributions also ceased,
                    Thompson argues, leaving "Bronzeville" worse off. This final
                    claim is dubious, for black Chicagoans might have been able
                    to better serve their community by channeling their money
                    directly into local welfare instead of lining the pockets of
                    the policy kings. Thompson briefly mentions sporadic local
                    activism against the lotteries; it would have been helpful
                    to know whether these efforts represented the full extent of
                    community repudiation of the policy business.
                Even if it is analytically thin, Kings is
                    rich in interesting detail. Thompson's extensive research
                    has unearthed an enormous cast of characters and intriguing
                    information about how the policy wheels operated. Runners
                    took the bets and distributed the winnings. Policy operators
                    controlled their profits by making sure that the numbers
                    least bet on a given day were the ones drawn. Winning
                    numbers were simultaneously publicized and disguised in
                    cartoons published by the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Defender. Thompson devotes extensive space
                    to the "policy wars," which occurred as different actors
                    vied for control of the numbers business. These were literal
                    wars, featuring frequent kidnappings and murder, which are
                    narrated in great detail. The book is lavishly illustrated,
                    with three sections of portraits and other graphic
                    information documenting the culture of policy. The book also
                    includes two appendices, the second of which reproduces
                    almost one hundred pages of 
                        United States
                     Senate hearings into racketeering in 
                        Chicago
                    .
                The word "informal" extends to various niceties of
                    publishing. The book is full of the kinds of problems that a
                    professional copyeditor should have caught: grammatical,
                    spelling, and typographical errors, as well as factual
                    mistakes, such as the first name of Mayor Michael Bilandic.
                    In addition, on occasion the author intentionally deploys
                    slang to evoke the period and place. Better editing might
                    also have corrected the peculiar placement of the
                    acknowledgments, notes, and bibliography, which are hidden
                    between the two appendices.
                More significantly, the book lacks the most critical piece of
                    scholarly apparatus-footnotes. Thus subsequent researchers
                    cannot use Kings either to verify the main details about the
                    lives of the policy kings or to assess unusual claims, such
                    as Thompson's assertion that Mayor Anton Cermak, who was
                    shot in an attempt on the life of Franklin D. Roosevelt, was
                    murdered because of his efforts to crack down on illegal
                    gambling in 
                        Chicago
                    . The omission  of footnotes is particularly distressing because Kings is clearly built on prodigious
                    research. As is, it is a work that readers must use only
                    with the greatest of care.
                AMANDA I. SELIGMAN is associate professor of History at
                    the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    -Milwaukee, where she also teaches in the Urban
                    Studies Programs. She is the author of Block by
                        Block: Neighborhoods and Public Policy on 
                            Chicago
                        's West Side (2005).
            
            
                
                    When Slavery Was Called Freedom:
                        Evangelicalism, Proslavery, and the Causes of the Civil
                        War, By John Patrick Daly, (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 2002. Pp. ix, 207. Notes, selected
                    bibliography, index. $45.00.)
                In this concise monograph, John Patrick Daly presents a
                    dramatically revisionist assessment of antebellum southern
                    religion's role in the ideological debate over slavery.
                    Drawing inspiration from such scholars as Eugene Genovese,
                    Daly contends that the South never diverged from the
                    nation's fundamental cultural unity, especially its faith in
                    divinely guided material progress. Both northern and
                    southern evangelical religion celebrated individualism and
                    moral selfdiscipline and preached that economic reward was
                    the providential reward for moral virtue.
                Evangelicalism began to assert its hold over the southern
                    mind in the first third of the nineteenth century. It was
                    not the rise of abolitionism, Daly contends, but the triumph
                    of this theological outlook linking moral with material
                    progress that fueled proslavery ideology. Evangelical
                    religion conditioned southerners to personal independence
                    and self-control. Ministers preached that individuals could
                    master their passions and attain wealth and power. Economic
                    prosperity was not a matter of luck or chance, because God
                    ruled all human affairs. Southern prosperity generated
                    through slavery was therefore viewed as proof of that
                    institution's divine sanction.
                Combing through the sermons, correspondence, and published
                    writings of church leaders, Daly finds that southern
                    proslavery advocates rarely claimed that slavery was an
                    ideal institution or that it would survive forever. He sees
                    George Fitzhugh and James Henry 
                        Hammond
                     as unrepresentative of regional thinking-most
                    southern proslavery arguments were not in contradiction to
                    the nation's free-labor ideology. Southern evangelicals, in
                    contrast, argued that slaves were not involuntary laborers
                    and that they had the same opportunities  open to them as any moral
                    agents. Southerners boasted that the slaves freely accepted
                    labor discipline as a means to instill both moral
                    selfrestraint and a superior work ethic. Slavery was viewed
                    as a free labor system and therefore would generate great
                    prosperity for all.
                Racist assumptions underlay evangelical proslaveryism.
                    Advocates argued that God had permitted the enslavement of
                    the Africans on account of their moral debasement. Slavery
                    would move slaves in moral paths through the inculcation of
                    internal mechanisms of control. Slavery therefore was part
                    of a divine plan for the redemption of the African race.
                    Southern evangelicals looked forward to the eventual end of
                    slavery and the colonization of the blacks back to Africa on
                    a divinely controlled timetable.
                Debating the abolitionists convinced southern evangelicals
                    that they were the true orthodox Christians. They charged
                    abolitionists with doubting God's moral ordering of the
                    universe. Such faith allowed southern church leaders to
                    employ apocalyptic and prophetic rhetoric to rally their
                    region behind the Confederacy. Defeat in the Civil War did
                    not end southern whites' belief in their moral superiority,
                    but it did cause them to lose optimism and diverge from the
                    national faith in progress. Postbellum southern religion
                    retreated into pessimism and otherworldliness, recovering
                    its love of progress and laissez-faire capitalism only when
                    regional prosperity returned in the last decades of the
                    twentieth century. By placing proslaveryism within a
                    persistent ideological mainstream, Daly challenges
                    historians to acknowledge that for the past two centuries
                    national elite groups have used religion to justify their
                    own prosperity and to rationalize racial and economic
                    inequalities as consequence of the underclass's character
                    failings.
                JOHN R. MCKIVIGAN is Mary O'Brien Gibson Professor of
                    History at Indiana University-Purdue University at 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            
            
                
                    The Spirits of America: A Social History of
                        Alcohol, By Eric Burns, (
                        Philadelphia
                    : Temple University Press, 2004. Pp. 336. Notes,
                    select bibliography, index. $29.00.)
                Eric Burns has given us an enjoyable but rather enigmatic
                    book. It is beautifully written and it purports to address a
                    serious subject-America's long and frequently controversial
                    experience with beverage alcohol. But for all of the promise
                    of its title, the book has a hard time defining itself.  It says little about
                    changing American drinking patterns, and even less about the
                    cultural implications of various drinking behaviors.
                    Instead, the narrative quickly turns to the familiar topic
                    of the rise and fall of the temperance movement and the
                    experiment of national Prohibition. This is a well-traveled
                    road, and Burns has little new to add, even as popular
                    histories go (John Kobler's Ardent Spirits: The
                        Rise and Fall of Prohibition [1973] covered much
                    the same ground a generation ago). Thus we are left with an
                    engaging text that devotes most of its attention to what we
                    already know and much less to matters that could benefit
                    from closer scrutiny.
                To be fair, Burns has written for a popular audience, not for
                    specialists or professional historians. One of the problems
                    in reaching a wider readership, however, is a tendency to
                    focus on dramatic anecdotes and personalities, which may not
                    be particularly useful in explaining wider trends or
                    developments. One comes away from the author's treatment of
                    post-Civil War temperance activists, for example, with the
                    feeling that they were slightly ludicrous, and that Drys
                    were somehow inherently naifs or even cranks. There is an
                    entire chapter on the antics of Carry A. Nation, wonderfully
                    titled "Hatchetation." It is delightful to read, but even
                    Burns concludes that the mainstream temperance movement put
                    little stock in the volatile Ms. Nation. So why a chapter,
                    other than the fact that Nation was a media darling? There
                    is far too little effort here to explain why millions of
                    Americans came to see the beverage alcohol industry in terms
                    that our generation reserves for crack cocaine dealers, and
                    to understand why so many temperance workers waged their
                    campaign based upon what they believed to be valid medical,
                    social, and economic evidence.
                The account of national Prohibition is similar. Burns
                    acknowledges that Prohibition-related violence was much less
                    than popularly supposed, but he focuses on the familiar
                    stories of speakeasies, big-name bootleggers, and lawmen. It
                    is fun to read, but key points get submerged. Burns is fully
                    aware of the damaging aspects of alcohol abuse, for example,
                    but he scants the fact that the dry crusade did reduce drinking-related health and social
                    problems. He laments the casualties inflicted by denatured
                    alcohol and other poisonous concoctions vended during the
                    Volstead years, but fails to ask how these compared to the
                    toll of legal pre-Prohibition liquor. Burns missed a chance
                    to put these issues before the popular reader.
                Burns's use of secondary literature can also be problematic.
                    He quotes judiciously from other authors (myself included),
                    but as is often the case in popular history, subtleties and
                    controversies get lost. He relies on W. J. Rorabaugh's work
                    (rightly so) to note that post-Independence republican hymns
                    reinforced liberty of personal choice and behavior,
                    including the choice to drink. But other scholars  have noted that this same
                    republicanism also propelled a drive to perfect the mores of
                    the new republic, thus encouraging temperance voices.
                Now the good news: Burns, a journalist with Fox News, writes
                    superbly, and I enjoyed every page. The book is well
                    organized and moves briskly through many good stories of the
                    temperance wars; there is even some poignancy (see the last
                    sentence devoted to Carry Nation). Finally, Burns's overview
                    of the modern status of drinking as a social and political
                    issue, including some realistic observations on the efficacy
                    of Alcoholics Anonymous, may be the most informative part of
                    the book. At least Spirits of America is a
                    good read.
                MARK EDWARD LENDER si chairman of the History Department
                    at Kean University, Union, 
                        New Jersey
                    . He has written widely on the history of
                    alcohol problems and has just finished a book on the federal
                    courts.
            
            
                
                    Preaching Eugenics: Religious Leaders and the
                        American Eugenics Movement, By Christine Rosen, (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 2004. Pp. viii, 286.
                    Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $35.00.)
                Attention to the relationship between science and religion in
                    the early twentieth century has been dominated by the Scopes
                    Trial of 1925, where spokespersons for religion and science
                    are depicted as stark adversaries. Christine Rosen, a fellow
                    at the Ethics and Public Policy Center in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., has added new dimensions to the
                    discussion with Preaching Eugenics, an
                    analysis of liberal religious leaders' support of the
                    eugenics movement at the beginning of the twentieth century.
                    Influential ministers, rabbis, and priests embraced-often
                    enthusiastically- the eugenicists' goal of improving
                    humanity through "better breeding." In one example, the
                    Reverend Oscar Carleton McCulloch, of the 
                        Plymouth
                     Congregational Church in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , conducted one of the earliest family studies
                    on the "degeneracy" of the so-called Ishmael family of 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1888. Others lent their names and
                    participation to eugenics organizations such as the American
                    Eugenics Society (AES), wrote messages for eugenics sermon
                    competitions, and enrolled their families into "fitter
                    families" contests.
                Rosen addresses the apparent contradictions in religious
                    support of a movement that was often accused of "playing
                    God." She concludes that liberal religious espousal for
                    eugenics cannot be understood apart from the context of
                    progressive reform in 
                    the early twentieth century. This milieu "creat[ed] space
                    for [liberal and modernist] Protestant ministers to
                    participate in secular reform movements to usher in the
                    Kingdom" (p. 16). Those who supported eugenics shared the
                    movement's vision of an ideal human race.
                Jewish and Catholic advocates of eugenics joined Protestant
                    leaders, united by their faith in progressive Social reform.
                    But Rosen also notes her religious subjects' sometimes
                    equivocal support, as they wrestled with contradictions
                    between the eugenic goal of ridding society of "bad genes"
                    and religious charitable impulses. Jewish advocates tried to
                    stress the eugenic character of Jewish teachings amidst
                    anti-Semitic rhetoric and calls for immigration restriction
                    from other eugenicists. Catholics such as Fr. John A. Ryan
                    and Fr. John M. Cooper were drawn to what they believed to
                    be the modern and scientific nature of eugenics, but were
                    marginalized by the movement's eventual position on birth
                    control and sterilization, which countered Church teachings.
                    Eugenicists themselves were somewhat ambivalent about
                    religious support for their movement. Though they welcomed
                    spiritual leaders' ability to promote public awareness of
                    eugenics, some argued that clerics would compromise the
                    "science" behind it.
                Rosen's study raises numerous questions that beg further
                    exploration. A more thorough investigation of these
                    religious leaders' ideas on race and class might have
                    revealed more clearly how they fit into the larger context
                    of progressive reform. The absence of discussion of the
                    reactions of African American religious leaders and
                    reformers to the eugenics movement is deeply felt here.
                    Furthermore, one wonders about these clerics' congregations
                    and audiences. Did ministers who presented sermons on
                    eugenics believe that traces of "feeblemindness" existed
                    within their congregations, or did they simply wish to
                    inform their parishioners of the supposed dangers of such
                    elements?
                The questions provoked by Rosen's analysis provide a
                    springboard for further historical exploration and attest to
                    the relevance of her study. Today, religious contributions
                    to ethical debates over science and medicine remain strong.
                    Rosen has documented a fascinating tale of an earlier time
                    when religion interacted with eugenic "science" in complex
                    ways.
                ANGELA LAHR is a visiting assistant professor of History
                    at 
                        Texas
                     A & M University Commerce.
            
            
            
                
                    Country Music Goes to War, Edited by
                    Charles K. Wolfe and James E. Akenson, (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 2005. Pp. viii, 250. Illustrations,
                    references, discographies, notes, $35.00.)
                This volume explores how country music songs, performers, and
                    entrepreneurs have responded to the opportunities and
                    challenges of war. In the wake of 9/11, 
                        Afghanistan, Iraq
                    , and the resulting spate of songs such as the
                    mournful "Where Were You (When the World Stopped Turning),"
                    the belligerent "Courtesy of the Red, White, and Blue (The
                    Angry American)," and the defiant "John Walker's Blues,"
                    this collection also serves as a timely reminder of country
                    music's capacity to render momentous events more
                    intelligible for millions of Americans.
                This is not to imply that this wideranging, albeit somewhat
                    unfocused, anthology restricts its attention to the 
                        United States
                    . Rae Wear offers a useful introduction to
                    Australian troubadour Brian Letton and the ideological
                    ambidexterity that fuels his populist critique of
                    globalization. Less successful is David A. Wilson's analysis
                    of paramilitary Ulster loyalists' recasting of popular
                    American songs as anthems of Loyalist identity and
                    anti-Catholic bigotry. Because country music held no
                    particular appeal or meaning to paramilitary tunesmiths, who
                    ransacked multiple musical genres, Wilson's essay seems a
                    poor fit for the collection.
                The same holds true for Aaron A. Fox, who contributes a
                    methodologically sophisticated, trenchant meditation on
                    authenticity, class, and altcountry that falters when he
                    tries to link the discussion to 9/11 in a forced and
                    unconvincing manner. Meanwhile, Andrew K. Smith and James E.
                    Akenson catalogue a number of country songs and albums that
                    invoke the Civil War, but provide little in the way of
                    analysis. Charles K. Wolfe traces the emergence of the war
                    song in early country music, and in a second essay combines
                    original interviews with solid textual analysis and an
                    awareness of historical context to fashion a solid overview
                    of the short-lived atomic bomb genre in country music.
                Louis Hatchett and W K. McNeil ably examine "There's a Star
                    Spangled Banner Waving Somewhere," one of the most popular
                    records to emerge in World War II. A trio of engaging, if
                    conceptually underdeveloped, entries chronicle the World War
                    II experiences of Gene Autry 
                        Kentucky
                     entrepreneur John Lair, and the "Hayloft Gang"
                    of 
                        Chicago
                    's National Barn Dance. Ivan M. Tribe provides a
                    useful survey of country songs dealing with the Korean
                    Conflict. Kevin S. Fontenot makes good use of James N.
                    Gregory's "Plain Folk Americanism" to contextualize the
                    "forceful, corny, and sometimes perceptive defenses of the
                    American way of life and attacks on the glaring deficiencies
                    of Communism" unleashed by country performers during the
                    early years of the  Cold
                    War (p. 143). Randy Rudder's discussion of post-9/11 country
                    music is informative but lacking in analytic rigor. Akenson
                    concludes the collection with a useful essay on employing
                    popular music in middle-school and high-school classrooms.
                If several contributors explore areas that might be
                    profitably revisited by future scholars, the smell of
                    antiquarianism permeates too many pieces. Some contributors
                    offer interesting stories but never present readers with
                    either a thesis or statement about why their topic matters.
                    The omission of the 
                        Vietnam
                     War is grievous, as no conflict has inspired
                    more high-profile country songs or proven more critical to
                    the cultural and political positioning of contemporary
                    country music. If it did not speak with one voice regarding 
                        Vietnam
                    , taken as a whole, country musicfully
                    recognizing the erosion of the cultural consensus that
                    informed earlier songs such as "There's a Star Spangled
                    Banner Flying Somewhere" or "God, Please Protect America"-
                    lent support to the narratives America brought to that war
                    and excoriated those who challenged and imperiled
                    "traditional American values" in ways that both anticipated
                    and helped bolster the conservative ascendancy in national
                    politics. Country Music Goes to War fails
                    to examine the cultural ruptures introduced by 
                        Vietnam
                    , the efforts of country music to redress and
                    repair these fissures, and the legacies of these endeavors.
                    At its best, however, this collection offers a solid
                    starting point for examining the meanings various country
                    performers have assigned to combat, citizenship, and
                    patriotism.
                CHRIS STONE is a doctoral candidate at Indiana
                    University. He is currently working on a dissertation on the
                    image of the 1960s in American cinema and has written on
                    popular music as a pedagogical tool.
            
            
                
                    The Fate of Family Farming Variations on an
                        American Idea, By Ronald Jager, (
                        Hanover
                    , N.H.: University Press of New 
                        England
                    , 2004. Pp. xx, 244. Notes. $26.00.)
                This highly readable book invites readers to question the
                    idea that family farming is simply a subject for nostalgia.
                    Farm families' adjustments are numerous-niche farming,
                    organic farming, integrated pest management, and
                    community-supported agricuture- but there is also help
                    available, such as the "beginning-farmer networks" operated
                    by county extension agents and the women-in-agriculture
                    networks. Thanks to these and other programs and strategies,
                    family farming remains alive and kicking in America.
                Ronald Jager grew up farming in 
                        Michigan
                     during the World War II era,  which he described in his book
                        Eighty Acres (1990). His way with
                    words and his turn of thought resemble those of Wendell
                    Berry and Indiana's Scott Russell Sanders. Jager writes
                    warmly about agrarian values and offers a substantial
                    account of American agrarianism, from Jefferson, Crevecoeur,
                    and Emerson, through Liberty Hyde Bailey and Louis
                    Bromfield, down to Berry and the iconoclastic 
                        California
                     grape grower Victor Davis Hanson, whom Jager
                    quotes: "That the land is now nothing is the real diagnosis
                    of modern man's mysterious spiritual illness" (p. 72).
                Jager is pleasantly mellow; rather than harangue with
                    jeremiads he treats the reader to subtle ironies. Besides
                    delving into the intellectual history of U.S. agrarianism,
                    he tells the history of farming in New 
                        England
                     from colonial times onward, focusing on how the
                    Midwest's cornucopia invaded the East on canal boats and
                    railroad cars, leading to the abandonment of many New 
                        England
                     farms in the latter 1800s.
                Jager's four major case studies all omit Indiana. Instead,
                    they highlight southern 
                        New Hampshire
                    , where Jager bought an old farm and started
                    large-scale gardening, apparently before he retired from
                    teaching philosophy at Yale. I once lived in southern 
                        New Hampshire
                     and worked in its apple harvests for many years
                    and helped put an eighty-year-neglected sugarbush back into
                    production, so I know some specifics about two of Jager's
                    four case studies and can vouch for their general accuracy.
                    His other two case studies deal with a dairy farm and with a
                    corn-and-eggs farm that also operates a large year-round
                    retail farmstand. Jager's moral seems to be that "where
                    there's a will there's a way [at least sometimes]."
                All four of the southern 
                        New Hampshire
                     operations are multi-generational family farms,
                    and they are at the heart of Jager's book. It is fascinating
                    to see the adjustments and re-adjustments that each of the
                    four families has devised to keep itself in business and
                    even to flourish.
                In 1950 the average American family spent over thirty percent
                    of its income on food; by 2000, about ten percent. In 1950,
                    fanners received over fifty cents of every dollar spent in
                    the U.S. on food; now their share is less than twenty cents
                    of every dollar (p. 195). Such figures reflect how far U.S.
                    farm policies are from the kind of European policies that
                    made the news in 1999 when 
                        France
                    's minister of agriculture told the World Trade
                    Organization that "the decision to preserve the family farm
                    is the choice of an entire society." What is at stake, as
                    Jager makes explicit in his last chapter ("The Soul of
                    Agriculture") isn't just the future of American agriculture
                    but the future of American culture.
                PAUL SALSTROM teaches history at Saint Mary-of-the-Woods
                    College, Saint Mary of the Woods, Indiana. He is the author
                    of Appalachian Path to Dependency (1994)
                    and is writing an economic history of family farming in
                    Indiana in the 1800s.
            
            
            
                
                    Main Lines: Rebirth of the North American
                        Railroads, 1970-2002, By Richard Saunders, Jr., (
                        DeKalb
                    : Northern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 2003. Pp. xxi, 436. Maps,
                    tables, notes, works cited, index. $49.95.)
                Richard Saunders, Jr., calls this volume "the first that I
                    know of to cover this material in a systematic way, a kind
                    of first draft of history" (p. xii). Intended as a sequel to
                    his earlier Merging Lines: The American
                        Railroads, 900-1970 (2001), this work provides an
                    extraordinarily detailed and insightful look at the complex
                    and profound reconfiguration of American railroads since the
                    Penn Central debacle. During these thirty years the
                    once-crowded ranks of major railroads, each with its own
                    proud name and heritage, boiled down into four American and
                    two Canadian mega-systems surrounded by coveys of smaller
                    lines. In the process the nature as well as the structure of
                    railroading underwent profound changes.
                The Penn Central bankruptcy in June 1970 signaled a broader
                    financial and operational crisis in American railroads at a
                    time when they were struggling to handle more traffic than
                    ever before. Woefully short of investment capital, plagued
                    by archaic work rules, hamstrung by regulation attuned to a
                    much earlier era, burdened by unprofitable passenger
                    traffic, and haunted by the fear of nationalization, the
                    railroad industry underwent an astonishing metamorphosis. A
                    government corporation, Conrail, meshed the better remains
                    of Penn Central into a giant but efficient rail company that
                    finally turned a profit in 1981. Another government
                    corporation, Amtrak, relieved the railroads of their
                    passenger traffic in 1971 and remains a lightning rod of
                    controversy, especially to congressional conservatives.
                Three pivotal pieces of legislation, the 3R (1973), 4R
                    (1976), and Staggers (1980) acts, freed the carriers from
                    the shackles of rate and other regulation, enabling them to
                    make contract rates, shed unprofitable branch lines, and
                    innovate in other ways that helped attract much needed
                    capital to the industry. The struggle to modernize work
                    rules dragged on for two decades. "With the labor settlement
                    of 1991," notes Saunders, "the railroads had the ingredients
                    of their rebirth in place. The physical plant was sound.
                    They had the technology to compete in time-sensitive,
                    service-oriented markets. They had the flexibility to deploy
                    labor productively" (p. 219). The loosened regulatory
                    environment also prompted a series of mergers that redrew
                    the railroad map into one dominated by super systems fed by
                    regional and local lines forged from castoff roads. The
                    result was a revitalized industry serving global markets
                    with the aid  of new
                    technologies and techniques that would have stunned earlier
                    railroad men. The new American railroad bore little
                    resemblance to its ancestor lines, which remained steeped in
                    cultural nostalgia even as they became business dinosaurs.
                This bare outline does little justice to Saunders's rich
                    narrative. He has tackled a dense, convoluted chain of
                    events and given them not only clarity but a persuasive
                    interpretation as well. His spare, punchy style works well
                    with this material, and he weaves his own views into the
                    narrative in a graceful and unobtrusive manner. Above all,
                    he reminds us that railroads remain a vital and
                    indispensable part of the American transportation system at
                    a time when most people are scarcely aware of their
                    existence. Far from being a tentative "first draft of
                    history," this work is likely to remain the standard account
                    of how the modern rail system came into being for some time
                    to come.
                MAURY KLEIN is professor of History at the University of 
                        Rhode Island
                    , Kingston. He is the author of several books
                    and articles on American railroad history, including Unfinished Business: The Railroad in American
                        Life (1994).
            
        
        
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
        
    
