
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 45, Issue 1, pages 1-112. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:45+issue:1+year:1949&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Clio, the Voice of the People
            Albert T. Volwiler*
            
            Clio, the Muse of history and the mythological daughter of Jupiter, was one of a numerous family. Her
                    name in Greek means to celebrate or glorify which gives a clue to one of the purposes of historical
                    writing. Her statues in the Vatican, the Louvre, and elsewhere usually represent her with a wreath
                    on her brow, a scroll in one hand and a trumpet in the other. Thus, it would seem that to the Greeks
                    history was to be valued for the patriotic pride which it could stimulate.
            Some years ago the writer was asked to review a revised edition of a high school text by Professor
                    Albert Bushnell Hart of Harvard University, Essentials in American History. A
                    survey disclosed that this text had been widely used only in the North and West, but that in the
                    South nearly all the larger cities were using a text written by Professor Nathaniel W. Stephenson of
                    Charleston College, 
                  Charleston, South Carolina
               . In the first, Sherman's
                    "March through 
                        Georgia
                    " is described as a brilliantly conceived military campaign, successfully
                    executed by a splendid fighting force under a great general. A boy could scarcely help but feel a
                    patriotic thrill of pride as he read these paragraphs. In the second, this decisive campaign is
                    described as though it were a devastating Nazi invasion accompanied by a wanton destruction of
                    property and the means of maintaining life that brought untold tragedy to the people affected. And
                    ironically, the two texts were published by the same company! Basically, they were written, not by
                    two historians, but by two peoples living in different sections.
            
               
                  * Albert T. Volwiler is professor of history and chairman of
                        the department of history at Ohio University, 
                     Athens, Ohio
                  . This paper
                        was read at the Indiana History Teachers Association session at the Twenty-eighth Annual Indiana
                        History Conference at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, on December 14, 1946.
            
            
            Though most of us teach the principle that history makes the great man rather than that the great man
                    makes history, yet we seem to exalt our own craft and do not apply this principle to it. Recently,
                    it fell to my lot to give a graduate course, "Representative Historians and Their
                    Writings." After the students had surveyed the writings of such historians as Herodotus,
                    Livy, Bede, Gregory of Tours, Vasari, Voltaire, Macaulay, William Bradford, George Bancroft,
                    Theodore Roosevelt, McMaster, and Treitschke, it dawned upon them anew that an historian usually
                    mirrors the times in which he lives and that the people determine the major lines of history, not
                    the historian alone.
            Listen to some sentences from the Russian historian, D. Ilajavski, whose school textbooks went
                    through twenty editions in the generation of Tsarist rule before 1917, tell the story of the French
                    Revolution and Napoleon: "Louis XVI was a peaceable and gentle monarch who in the course of
                    his long reign showed himself particularly skillful in finding expert Ministers of Finance. Loved
                    and honored by his people, the aged monarch died suddenly after a glorious reign, as a result of a
                    fit of apoplexy. He was succeeded by his son, Louis XVII, who was obliged to conduct several wars,
                    wherein the captain of his hosts, the royal marshal, Napoleon Bonaparte, conquered a great part of
                    Europe for his King. Napoleon, however, abused his power and made a public attempt to rebel against
                    his liege lord and to compass his own ambitious ends. Under the leadership of Alexander I, King and
                    Autocrat of all the Russias, the general was deposed, deprived of all his honors and dignities and
                    all claim to pension. He was banished to St. Helena."
            As a part of a stimulating examination for freshmen one could give them this quotation and ask, (a)
                    List all the errors you can discover in this paragraph and correct each as you name it. (b) Comment
                    on this quotation.
            Another example may be found in journalese history. In describing the Hundred Days following Emperor
                    Napoleon's escape from Elba and his march toward 
                        Paris
                     in 1815, Le Moniteur Universel, the leading nineteenth century
                    newspaper of France, reported to its readers: March 14, 1815. "A wretch covered with the
                    blood of a million Frenchmen, flatters himself in vain that he will find partisans among them. How
                    does he dare to offer us his usurping  and tyrannical yoke.
                    …" March 17. "Bonaparte has dared to set foot on the soil of France.
                    Such an excess of audacity and madness has roused the indignation of the army; it demands the death
                    of a man who can no longer be regarded as the chief of the brigands. …" March 18
                    "… and what Frenchman could ever recognize the titles and rights of a sovereign
                    in the person of Napoleon Bonaparte…?" March 19. "Bonaparte is
                    advancing towards the capital. …" March 23. (An article giving a day by day
                    summary.) "From Castellane to Digne and throughout the department of the Basses-Alpes the
                    peasantry, apprized of the Emperor's march, flocked to the route from all quarters and
                    displayed their feelings with a forcefulness which left no further room for doubt. … From
                    Grenoble to Lyons the Emperor's march was nothing less than a triumph!" March
                    21. "The king and the princes departed during the night. … His Majesty, the
                    Emperor arrived this evening at eight o'clock at the palace of the Tuileries."
            It was Voltaire who defined history as une fable convenue.
            During the "Roaring Forties," with its campaign slogans, "All of 
                        Oregon
                     or None," "The Reannexation of 
                        Texas
                     and the Reoccupation of 
                        Oregon
                    ," and "Fifty-four Forty or Fight," George Bancroft, the most
                    honored historian of the age, often phrased his concluding paragraphs in hyperboles. Here is his
                    estimate of the American Revolution and the Federal Constitution: "In 
                        America
                    , a new people had risen up without king, princes, or nobles. … By calm
                    meditation and friendly councils they had prepared a constitution which, in the union of freedom
                    with strength and order, excelled every one known before. … In the happy morning of their
                    existence as one of the powers of the world, they had chosen justice for their guide; and while they
                    proceeded on their way with a well-founded confidence and joy, all the friends of mankind invoked
                    success in the unexampled endeavor to govern states and territories of imperial extent as one
                    federal republic."
            Speaking of the significance of the year 1763, he declared, "In 
                        America
                    , the Teutonic race, with its strong tendency to individuality and freedom, was to
                    become the master from the Gulf of Mexico to the poles; and the English tongue, which, but n century
                    and a half before, had for its entire  world a part only of two
                    narrow islands on the outer verge of Europe, was now spread more widely than any that had ever given
                    expression to human thought. Go forth, then, language of 
                        Milton
                     and Hampden, language of my country, take possession of the North American continent!
                    Gladden the waste places with every tone that has been rightly struck on the English lyre, with
                    every English word that has been spoken well for liberty and for man!"
            Professor James Harvey Robinson on one occasion used the following illustration of this general
                    theme. In order to appreciate the arbitrary nature of the selection of historic facts offered in our
                    standard textbooks, let us suppose that a half dozen alert and well-trained minds had never happened
                    to be biased by the study of any textbook or outline of history. Let us suppose that they had
                    nevertheless learned a great deal about the past directly from a vast range of sources, both
                    literary and archaeological. Lastly, let us assume that they were all called upon independently to
                    prepare a world history textbook, suitable for use in high schools. They would speedily discover
                    that there was no single obvious rule for determining what should be included in their review of the
                    past. Having no tradition to guide them, each would select what he considered most important for the
                    young to know of the past. Writing in the twentieth century, they would all be deeply influenced by
                    the interests and problems of the day. Battles and sieges and the courts of kings would scarcely
                    appeal to them. Probably it would occur to none of them to mention the battle of Issus, the advent
                    of Hadrian, the Italian enterprises of Otto I, the six wives of Henry VIII, or the invasion of
                    Holland by Louis XIV. It is tolerably safe to assume that none of these events would be considered
                    for inclusion by any one of our writers as he thought over all that man had done, and thought, and
                    suffered, and dreamed, through thousands of years. All of them would agree that what men had known
                    of the world in which they lived, or had thought to be their duty, or what they made with their
                    hands, or the nature and style of their buildings, or how they tried to establish peace, would any
                    of them be far more valuable to rehearse than the names of their rulers and the conflicts in which
                    they engaged. Each writer would accordingly go his own way. He would look back on the past for
                    explanations of  what he found most interesting in the present and
                    would endeavor to place his readers in a position to participate intelligently in the life of their
                    own time. The six manuals when completed would not only differ greatly from one another but also
                    from our current textbooks.
            In historiography there are two basic principles competing with each other as guiding principles for
                    the historian. One principle would have him mirror the times and describe events as the people of
                    the period viewed it; the other, to write, not from the point of view of contemporaries, but from
                    the point of view of posterity, lifting out of the experiences of the past those items which most
                    influenced posterity.
            To illustrate: In the 1880's the American public was much interested in river and harbor
                    bills. Usually these were passed through Congress by logrolling, pork-barrel methods. Today, we no
                    longer favor such methods of procedure, but instead prefer scientific planning and the execution of
                    such plans by experts as in the case of the Tennessee Valley Authority. If the
                    historian follows the first principle, he will give many paragraphs to a discussion of the Rivers
                    and Harbors Bill of 1883 and its veto by President Chester Arthur, but devote only a few sentences
                    to the Mississippi River Commission created in 1879 and headed by the leading civil engineer of his
                    day, Captain James B. Eads. If the historian follows the second principle, he will reverse this
                    procedure and emphasize the work of the engineer rather than that of the politician.
            Another illustration is found in the story of December, 1903. If the history of this month be written
                    from the first point of view, it will devote pages to Theodore Roosevelt and his annual message to
                    Congress. Column upon column of the newspapers of the time and numerous editorials and magazine
                    articles discussed his policies and this message for weeks and months. But during that same month,
                    only a few days after Roosevelt's message was read, Wilbur and Orville Wright made their
                    historic flight at Kitty Hawk, 
                        North Carolina
                    . Contemporaries paid practically no attention to it. Very few newspapers gave any
                    account of it and those that did had only a few short paragraphs on an inside page. And yet, if a
                    great historian in the year 5000 A.D. should look back upon our age and write its story, he may  follow the second principle and devote pages to the story of how
                    man learned to fly during this period but pass over the story of Theodore Roosevelt with only a
                    glance.
            The distinguished Italian historian, Benedetto Croce, defines history as "contemporary
                    thought about the past." One of our respected masters, Professor James Westfall Thompson,
                    on the occasion of his being elected president of the American Historical Association was presented
                    with a volume of essays written by his students. In accepting it, he observed: "When I
                    began teaching we all felt that mankind was constantly improving and that there was such a thing as
                    progress which could be understood by the rational mind. We felt that we could know history and
                    understand it, and thought that we could narrate it. Today I am willing to assert that neither a
                    grain of sand nor history can be understood by the human mind. The stream of time has come down out
                    of remote ages and passed headlands and highlands. It has brought down the debris of broken empires.
                    The historian is but a fisherman on the shore, pulling out of the flood a fragment here, a broken
                    statue there, vestiges of the dead past. He then tries to fit these together and make a pattern
                    which we can understand. Is it not presumptuous to assume that we ever can understand?"
            Cross currents in the history of the United States in our own day illustrate the definition given by
                    Croce, "History is contemporary thought about the past." The war which ended in
                    1945 caused millions of Americans to realize how much they loved their country and the rich heritage
                    of its ideals. This spirit is illustrated by the story of a gallant soldier home from the Pacific
                    battlefront who upon returning to the United States knelt and kissed its soil. Never before in war
                    were the American people as united. Their past history has taken on new interest and usefulness.
            In Europe every nationality has been brought to a consciousness of its own inner unity by learning of
                    its past. The story of the common glories and common sorrows experienced by a people weld them into
                    a nation. When Frantisek Palacky, the great Czech historian, undertook to revive the national spirit
                    of the Czechs, he began by writing their history. There has been abroad in 
                        America
                     the intuitive feeling that its citizens cannot give their fullest loyalty to the nation
                    in its hour of dire need without an understanding  of its ideals
                    and aspirations as these have developed in its past. It was undoubtedly because of this spirit of
                    the times that the surveys of the teaching of American History by the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times in 1943 received such immediate and wide attention.
            The first survey reported that seventy-two per cent of the colleges and universities did not require
                    American history for admission, and nearly ninety per cent did not require it for graduation. When
                    the colleges replied that many students' programs left no time for American history and
                    that college students brought a knowledge of this subject from high school, the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times examined seven thousand freshman college students and found them woefully
                    lacking in this respect. The day after its results were published, the 
                        Philadelphia
                    
                    Record observed: "It is time for Americans to know their history
                    … a great many of us know almost nothing about these ‘woods and templed
                    hills’ and even less of the history of the ‘land where my fathers
                    died.’" Even the United States Senate considered "the appalling neglect
                    of United States history in our public schools." A resolution instructed its Committee on
                    Education and Labor "to study the ways and means by which the Federal Government may most
                    effectively promote a more thorough study of the history of the United States."
            The two surveys and the conclusions drawn from them became almost overnight the subject of
                    conversation among thousands of citizens, and of discussions at conventions, forums, and other
                    meetings all over the country. They touched off what was already in the minds of many Americans. The 
                        New York
                    
                    Times surveys have not been so much the cause of a renewed interest in American
                    history as the result of such an interest.
            The Committee on American History in Schools and Colleges, appointed in 1943, dealt with the question
                    we have been considering—the selection of Historical facts. To avoid duplication of high
                    school and college courses, the committee recommended that the content of the college course be
                    altered to conform to the suggested new title, "American Civilization: its Origins and
                    Development." Such topics as the history of ideas, science and invention, cultural trends,
                    the role of religion, humanitarianism, and philosophy, education, music, and art were to be included
                    and the entire story  given a proper setting in the history of the
                    western hemisphere and taught from a world point of view. Should such a change not make the course a
                    successful educational adventure for students, the committee would abolish it. Meantime, the
                    committee recommended that students who by an examination revealed no need for such a course be
                    permitted instead to elect advanced, specialized courses.
            To make such a suggested course a success would require the "retooling" of most of
                    the professors who have been teaching the traditional sophomore course. It would mean that topical
                    headings, such as "The French and Indian War, 1754–1763," would be
                    regarded just as narrowly misleading as would the topic, "The German and Negro War,
                    1914–1918," if that were used in a national history textbook of the Union of
                    South Africa to describe African phases of World War I. In the latter case attention would then be
                    centered upon the campaigns in German Southwest Africa while the decisive phases of the struggle
                    which took place in the North Atlantic and in western Europe would be largely disregarded. The
                    proper treatment, of course, would dictate first a study of each war from a global point of view and
                    then an examination of the secondary role played by colonists and aborigines in 
                        South Africa
                     or 
                        America
                    .
            The proposed revised course would also mean that much new material would have to be included. The
                    most widely used college texts today do not, for example, discuss the development of radio
                    communication except from a narrow, nationalistic viewpoint. They usually describe the days of the
                    early crystal sets when every American had the liberty, freedom, and independence to erect a
                    broadcasting station and broadcast what and when he pleased, if he pleased. The account then goes on
                    to tell how the resulting mutual interference caused radio listeners to demand a clearing of the air
                    channels. This was accomplished in 1927 by the Federal Radio Act and carried further by the Federal
                    Communications Act in 1934. Here texts stop. They do not interpret this development by calling
                    attention to the fact that by 1934, so far as radio broadcasting was concerned, the American citizen
                    had lost much of his liberty, freedom, and independence and had to submit to regimentation and
                    censorship by a "bureaucracy."
            
            Current textbooks frequently feed the fires of isolationism by not presenting the repercussions on
                    America of the work of radio engineers as invention after invention permitted broadcasting in ever
                    widening circles. The only way in which many an American citizen could continue to enjoy his radio
                    and avoid interference by stations in Quebec, Montreal, Vancouver, Havana, and El Paso, Mexico, was
                    by having the United States sit down around a conference table in 
                        Mexico City
                     with 
                        Canada
                    , Cuba, Mexico, and other neighbors in a North American Radio Conference to parcel out
                    certain wave lengths to each. This was done in 1928, and, as a result, a portion of American
                    sovereignty and some of the free air over the United States for which George Washington had fought,
                    had to be surrendered. But in return, the United States acquired certain reciprocal rights with
                    respect to each of its neighbors.
            In a few decades, when inventors will make it as easy to broadcast around the world as it is today to
                    broadcast in the United States, a world-wide radio conference will again meet and through
                    co-operation among nations clear the air for all peoples of the world. Progress in this direction
                    was made at a conference of fifty-six nations—including the United States—in
                    Madrid, Spain, in 1932. In 1938, sixty-six nations met in Cairo, Egypt, in another conference. Only
                    by teaching American history with such a world outlook can we prepare our students for world
                    government tomorrow, when electricity, the internal combustion engine, and atomic energy will
                    inexorably demand international co-operation. The spirit in man's intellectual life gives
                    fundamental unity to modern civilization.
            Unless American history teachers grasp this outlook, then the present wave of emphasis upon its
                    teaching will result in a dangerous provincialism and narrow nationalism and bring only ashen
                    disillusionment. Prime Minister Ramsay MacDonald in a speech to the American Congress in 1932 in the
                    midst of the great depression asserted: "In these times there is no Italy, no Germany, no
                    America, no Britain apart from the rest of the nations. There is nothing smaller than a world,
                    nothing less than a system which is crumbling around our feet." His words remind one of
                    analogous words by Patrick Henry: "Fleets and armies and the present state of things show
                    that government is dissolved … the distinctions 
                    between Virginians, Pennsylvanians, New Yorkers, and New Englanders are no more. I am not a
                    Virginian, but an American." That so many Americans in the past few decades thought they
                    were living in a country when actually they were living in a world has been due in part to the
                    isolationist flavor of American history teaching. We have taught our boys and girls about Lewis and
                    Clark but not about Alexander Mackenzie who crossed the Rocky Mountains before Lewis and Clark.
                    There came to my desk for reviewing one day Jeannette Mirsky's brilliant book, The Westward Crossing, wherein a continental, not a provincial, motif runs through
                    the pages as she follows Balboa, Mackenzie, and Lewis and Clark.
            "If you will revise your departmental course along these lines," stated a professor
                    of science, "I'll vote to make it required of all students." Especially
                    is such a change needed in high schools which do not require world history. There came to my
                    attention one such high school which enrolls fourteen hundred boys and girls but has only twenty
                    studying world history.
            To a member of the Progressive Education Association, the teaching of history should be more
                    functional. He would emphasize much more history of yesterday, and also regard the events of today
                    as good history, even though still in the making. He would build upon the pupil's
                    interest by proceeding from the near to the remote. To him a fundamental issue is
                    involved—an issue stated thus by Charles F. Kettering of General Motors: "We
                    spend all of our time studying the past. Now I have no objection to history—history is
                    very important, but we've been looking at the past and backing into the future. I want to
                    turn around and back into history far enough to get a good look ahead." A member of the
                    Progressive Education Association would want an area of learning selected for study, and then,
                    starting with the contemporary scene, have the students collect and master such historical data as
                    would be useful for the area selected. History would thus be fused with the other social studies. It
                    may be that fifty years from now this point will be considered orthodox.
            President James B. Conant of 
                        Harvard
                     once reminded us that in the thousand years of the history of universities one fact
                    stands out: universities have flourished when their  teaching was
                    relevant to the times, but they have withered when they clung to outworn traditions and disciplines.
                    The same principle applies to the teaching of history. A few years ago, one of our great eastern
                    foundations studying successful teaching decided to use the inductive or case method. A list of one
                    hundred outstanding teachers of history in the Middle states was secured. A field man then visited
                    each teacher and talked with him, his students, and official superiors. When the results were
                    tabulated, it was found that some of the one hundred had a sanguine, others a phlegmatic
                    temperament; some were heavy-set, others had that lean and hungry look which Shakespeare mentions;
                    some used objective, others, essay examinations; some used the class period in accordance with
                    old-fashioned methods, others in accordance with new-type methods.
            All, however, had one trait in common: they read their morning newspaper and associated the lesson of
                    the day with the big, busy, teeming world in which their students lived. They possessed a certain
                    alertness and vital interest in contemporary life from which they drew to enrich their teaching.
                    This trait enabled them to transform the history of ancient 
                        Athens
                     into modern history. The absence of this point of view, however, would make even the
                    administrations of Woodrow Wilson and Franklin I). Roosevelt ancient history. After all, the major
                    function of teaching history is to enable us the better to understand and interpret the present-day
                    world in which we live. To achieve this end, the teacher must be wide awake and willing to work. It
                    was to this type of teacher that Charles W. Eliot referred in an address at 
                        Harvard
                     when he said: "Two kinds of men make good teachers: young men, and men who
                    never grow old."
            To relate the material studied in history to present day life need not take much time, nor detract
                    from the essential facts to be mastered. A question, a few comments, some pictures, a sketch, an
                    assigned exercise, or a report will suffice. The teacher of history should possess a sufficient
                    knowledge of its content so that he knows what is available in the historical storehouse for use,
                    and, when all is said and done, this is perhaps the most important factor in making history
                    interesting. Today, for example, we are all interested in post-war eras, and subsequent panics and
                    depressions.  Hence, if we reach into our storehouse and bring
                    forth additional facts relating to the critical years after the American Revolution or the years of
                    reconstruction after Appomattox we shall strike a responsive cord. President James R. Lowell of 
                        Harvard
                     once said: "The art of life does not consist in the solution of problems, but
                    in the selection of problems to solve." Similarly we may say that the selection of facts is
                    critical to the history teacher or historian.
            In an historically-minded age, the potential power of the wrong kind of history for evil is
                    tremendous. Loyalty to country and humanity, as well as loyalty to history, is best served by
                    looking facts squarely in the face and not selecting them to prove an a priori
                    thesis in the interest of any party, creed, system, or nation. Facts need to be interpreted with
                    humility in the hope that one may be somewhere near the truth. Important questions confront our
                    guild. Great, new horizons have confronted us, almost over night. How challenging history teaching
                    is today and promises to be tomorrow!
         
         
         
            Indiana and the Election of 1864
            William F. Zornow*
            
            The election of Abraham Lincoln in 1864 hinged to a large extent on the fact that the Union party was
                    able to carry the October elections in 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and Pennsylvania. It was generally felt that whichever party carried the
                    October elections in these three states would also carry the national election in November;
                    therefore, both parties concentrated most of their attention on achieving victory in these states in
                        October.1 For a long time the outcome of the October election in Indiana was
                    in doubt. Almost until the very eve of the election Governor Oliver P. Morton was not optimistic
                    about his party's chances of success. One correspondent wrote from 
                        Evansville
                     to Andrew Johnson, the vice-presidential nominee of the Union party, that
                    "Indiana may be as troublesome to Lincoln as 
                        South Carolina
                    ."2 In view of this fact, the presidential election of 1864
                    in Indiana may be deserving of closer investigation.
            Early in 1864, the suggestion that Lincoln should be renominated was being considered by a large
                    number of people. The Unionists in Indiana were divided in their opinion as to the desirability of
                    renominating him. The largest group was of the opinion that Lincoln's record had been
                    good enough to warrant permitting him to continue in office for another term. This group was
                    extremely enthusiastic for him and induced a number of TJnion journals in Indiana to declare for his
                    renomination early in the year.3
                    
                  
                     * William F. Zornow is an instructor of history at Case
                            Institute of Technology, 
                        Cleveland, Ohio
                     .
                  
                     1 Harold M. Dudley, "The Election of 1864," 
                        Mississippi Valley Historical Review (Cedar Rapids, 
                                Iowa
                            , 1914-), XVIII (1931–1932), 500–518; Worthington C. Ford
                            (ed.), A Cycle of Adams Letters, 1861–1865 (2 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1920), II, 204; S. Colfax to A. Lincoln, August 29, 1864, Edwin M. Stanton
                            MSS, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.; S. Colfax to A. Johnson, September 26, 1864,
                            Andrew Johnson MSS, Library of Congress; J. Harlan to R. Stevens, September 7, 1864, Manton
                            M. Marble MSS, Library of Congress; S. Barlow to G. B. McClellan, September 14, 1864, George
                            B. McClellan MSS, Library of Congress; W. Chandler to Edward McPherson, October 13, 1864,
                            Edward McPherson MSS, Library of Congress.
                  
                     2 S. Fletcher to A. Johnson, July 30, 1864, Andrew Johnson MSS.
                  
                     3
                            
                                La Porte
                            , Indiana, Herald, January 2, 1864; 
                                Madison
                            , Indiana, Courier, January 11, 1864; 
                                Greencastle
                            , Indiana, Putnam Republican Banner, January 21, 1864; 
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, Gazette, January 30, 1864; 
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 Express, January 20, 1864; 
                                Mishawaka
                            , Indiana, Enterprise, January 23, 1864. These are some of the
                        
               
                     Some of Lincoln's friends even suggested that the
                    national convention should be dispensed with and that he should be nominated by acclamation.4 The popular feeling toward Lincoln in Indiana in January and February is
                    typical of the feeling everywhere. This great outpouring of affection for the president was
                    spontaneous and legitimate.5 Among this group which preferred Lincoln were many
                    who refused to come out openly for him until after the 
                        Baltimore
                     convention had officially nominated him. These men wished to be in a position to
                    support the nominee, whoever he might be, without having made any previous commitments.6
            
            There was another group in Indiana and throughout the nation who were openly hostile to
                    Lincoln's renomination. These men were the radicals of the Union party. To them Lincoln
                    appeared to be everything from an incompetent to an "awful, woeful ass."7 In their opinion he lacked executive 
                  papers which came out for Lincoln early in the year. See also Winfred A. Harbison,
                            "Indiana Republicans and the Re-election of President Lincoln," Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1905-), XXXIV (1938), 47–48.
                  
                     4
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Journal, January 16, February 27, 1864; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Gazette, January 25, 1864; J. J. Pease to G.
                            Welles, February 11, 1864, Gideon Welles MSS, Library of Congress. Pease stated that Lincoln
                            was so popular in the Northwest that the national convention should be abandoned.
                  
                     5 John G. Nicolay and John Hay, Abraham Lincoln: A
                                History (10 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1890), VIII, 323, IX, 29, 52–56; J. Palmer to L. Trumbull, January
                            24, 1864; N. Judd to L. Trumbull, January 2, 1864, Lyman Trumbull MSS, Library of Congress;
                            E. S. Cleveland to A. Lincoln, January 29, 1864; N. Chipman to J. Nicolay, January 28, 1864;
                            I. Hazelhurst to I. Newton, February 5, 1864; W. Pearne to B. Field, February 5, 1864,
                            Abraham Lincoln MSS, Library of Congress; Frederic Bancroft and William Dunning (eds.), The Reminiscences of Carl Schurz (3 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1909), III, 100, 105–106; De Alva S. Alexander, A
                                Political History of the State of 
                                    New York
                                
                      (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1906–1923), III (1909), 87; John B. McMaster, A History of the United States during Lincoln's Administration (
                                New York
                            , 1927), 498. Many other works could be listed indicating Lincoln's
                            popularity with the people.
                  
                     6 B. F. Tuttle to S. P. Chase, February 24, 1864, Salmon P. Chase MSS,
                            Library of Congress; Harbison, "Indiana Republicans and the Re-election of
                            President Lincoln," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIV, 48.
                  
                     7 M. Halstead to J. Sherman, February 8, 1863, John Sherman MSS,
                            Library of Congress. Halstead's remark in full was: "If Lincoln was not
                            a damned fool, we could get along yet. He is an awful, woeful ass." For some other
                            evidence of the hatred which the radicals felt for Lincoln see T. Harry Williams, Lincoln and the Radicals (
                        Madison, Wisconsin
                     ,
                            1941), 306–333; Briggs to S. Chase, October 17, 1863; T. Stevens to S. Chase,
                            October 8, 1863, Salmon P. Chase MSS; H. Barber to L. Trumbull, October 30, 1863; G. T.
                            Brown to L. Trumbull, November 12, 1863, Lyman Trumbull MSS.
               
                     ability. He was too slow in forming an emancipation policy, and
                    he was too lenient in his attitude toward the South. These men wanted an executive who would crush
                    the rebellion without having any qualms as to the methods employed. They could not see how or why
                    Lincoln was popular with the people. Some dismissed his popularity by saying that it came from the
                    "unthinking masses" or was "only on the surface."8 Some of the radicals were aware that the popular approval of Lincoln was genuine. One of
                    them pointed out that "five out of six people of the west—
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana especially—[were] enthusiastically in favor of the renomination
                    of Mr. Lincoln."9 These radicals knew that the movement for Lincoln was
                    "spontaneous beyond the possibility of a doubt," but so great was their hatred for
                    him that they were willing to disregard the obvious will of the people by trying to delay the
                    convention in the hope that Lincoln's popularity would abate, and they could substitute a
                    more radical nominee.10
            
            The only difficulty with this group was that they could not agree on a likely man to succeed Lincoln.
                    Many of the states had their favorite son whom they would have liked to see nominated. At other
                    times the radicals suggested men of national prominence. Generals Benjamin F. Butler, William S.
                    Rosecrans, John C. Frémont, and Secretary of the Treasury Salmon P. Chase were the ones
                    most frequently mentioned. Of these men the only two who received much attention in Indiana were
                    Frémont and Chase.
            Frémont was supported by the German radicals in Indiana. Their organ, the Indiana Freic Presse, wrote, "We cannot and dare not vote for Lincoln unless we
                    are willing 
                  
                     8 L. Trumbull to H. G. McPike, February 6, 1864, Lyman Trumbull MSS;
                            Adam Gurowski, The Diary of Adam Gurowski (3 vols., 
                        Boston, New
                            York
                     , and Washington, 1862–1866), III (1866), 60,
                            63–65, 91, 125, 146–147.
                  
                     9 W. D. Bickham to J. Sherman, March 1, 1864, John Sherman MSS.
                  
                     10 Alexander, A Political History of the State of 
                                    New York
                                
                     , III, 88–89; Gideon Welles, Diary of Gideon
                                Welles (3 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1911), II, 4–5; Nicolay and Hay, Abraham Lincoln: A
                                History, IX, 57–58; The American Annual Cyclopedia for
                            1864 (
                                New York
                            , 1865), 785; 
                                New York
                            
                            Tribune, April 25, 1864; 
                                New York
                            
                            Evening Post, February 23, 1864; 
                        Boston, Massachusetts
                     ,
                                Transcript, March 23, April 1, 1864; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, April 8, 1864; 
                        Cleveland, Ohio
                     , Daily Leader, April 28, 1864.
               
                     to participate in the betrayal of the republic.
                        …"11 Until Frémont withdrew from the race in
                    September, the Germans continued to give him their full support and greatly embarrassed
                    Lincoln's administration by their actions.12
            
            The Chase boom was to reach far greater proportions. The Secretary had been working since 1862 to
                    build an organization to carry him to the position which he felt he was born to fill. He used the
                    great patronage of his department for this purpose and also attempted to sell himself to the
                    American public through the propaganda agencies which Jay Cooke had set up to sell government
                        bonds.13 In October, 1863, Chase visited 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He spent some time exchanging compliments with Governor Morton and then made a bid for
                    the Governor's support by offering him the secretaryship of state.14
                    Morton, however, was unwilling to endanger his own position by becoming involved in a political
                    venture which was as precarious as Chase's candidacy.
            About the same time that Chase was making his bid for Morton's support, the Governor was
                    also being considered by Indiana politicians for the nomination. Once again he refused to consider
                    such talk. He probably felt that the Indiana politicians and others were merely using him in their
                    effort to prevent the Union State Convention from declaring for Lincoln. The Governor tried to
                    silence this talk in December, but Indiana newspapers continued to mention him as a possible nominee
                    until February.15 The withdrawal of the Governor from the race in December
                    greatly spurred the Chase boom in Indiana. General Henry B. Carrington wrote to Chase from 
                        Indianapolis
                     that it was definitely settled that Morton would run for governor 
                  
                     11 Harbison, "Indiana Republicans and the Re-election of
                            President Lincoln," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIV, 40.
                  
                     12
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily State Sentinel, February 11, 1864; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Gazette, February 20, 1864; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Journal, February 27, 1864. The Germans in 
                                Indianapolis
                             purchased a newspaper for the sole purpose of urging
                            Frémont's candidacy.
                  
                     13 Albert B. Hart, Salmon Portland Chase (
                                Boston
                            , 1899), 309; Ellis P. Oberholtzer, Jay Cooke, Financier of the
                                Civil War (2 vols., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1907), I, 360–361; Donnal V. Smith, Chase and Civil
                                War Politics (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , 1931), 85–88.
                  
                     14Smith, Chase and Civil War Politics, 77; William
                            D. Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1899), I, 251. Morton's son related this incident to
                            Foulke.
                  
                     15
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Journal, February 22, 1864; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Daily Gazette, January 21, February 20, 1864.
               
                     and "not in the Presidential canvass." The
                    letter continued with some welcome news for the Secretary. "Several who spoke for you as a
                    cabinet officer; but claimed for Indiana a Presidential candidate, now that Indiana politics promise
                    to require attention under Gov. Morton as the local leader, give full expression to a choice of
                        yourself."16
            
            The Chase treasury agents increased their activities in Indiana, and Chase also sought to induce
                    Indiana's two leading congressmen, George Julian and Schuyler Colfax to support him.17 Julian was offered a position on the Chase Central Committee. Julian was a
                    radical and probably preferred Chase, but he was unwilling to identify himself with a movement which
                    he knew was not popular with the people. He declined Chase's offer and confided in his
                    journal that Chase was undoubtedly a victim of an "overweening ambition" and that
                    it was better to "let the presidential matter drift."18 Colfax
                    also declined to identify himself with the Chase movement, and when the rumor began to spread in 
                        Washington
                     that he was about to come out for Chase, Colfax quickly went to Lincoln to deny it.19
            
            The Union men in each county met on February 13 to elect delegates to the state convention. The
                    resolutions adopted at these preliminary meetings left no doubt as to the popular preference for the
                    governorship, but unfortunately the interference of the Chase men and the Germans prevented any
                    clear-cut picture being obtained on the presidential question. Consequently, when the state
                    convention met, this matter was still in doubt. Even Governor Morton was noncommittal on the
                    presidential matter. He claimed that a declaration for Lincoln so early in the year might be 
                  
                     16 H. B. Carrington to S. Chase, December 12, 1863, Salmon P. Chase
                            MSS.
                  
                     17 Nicolay and Hay, Abraham Lincoln: A History,
                            VIII, 323; H. J. Rudisill to S. Chase, February 2, 1864, Salmon P. Chase MSS. Both
                            references tell of the activity of the treasury agents in Indiana on behalf of
                            Chase's candidacy.
                  
                     18 George W. Julian, Political Recollections, 1840 to
                                1872 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 237–238; Grace J. Clarke, George W.
                            Julian, in Indiana Historical Collections (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1916-), XI (1923), 250–251. The journal entry is dated
                            February 16, 1864.
                  
                     19 Nicolay and Hay, Abraham Lincoln: A History,
                            VIII, 315. Lincoln received a full report of Chase's efforts to obtain the
                            nomination for the presidency from W. A. Bradshaw. J. H. Jordan to S. Chase, May 1, 1864; J.
                            Fishback to S. Chase, April 11, 1864, Salmon P. Chase MSS.
               
                     "prernature."20 This
                    became the stock argument of all those who opposed a declaration in favor of Lincoln by the state
                    convention.
            When the Union State Convention assembled at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on February 23, the Lincoln men were ready to place their state in favor of his
                    renomination. At the very opening of the convention after the temporary organization had been
                    completed, Cyrus M. Allen ascended the platform and introduced a resolution which proposed that
                    Governor Morton be renominated by acclamation and that the delegates to the national convention be
                    instructed for Lincoln. The opposition had not anticipated such a move, and before they could
                    recover their equilibrium the convention had adopted the resolution amid a tremendous outburst of
                    enthusiasm. The Germans attempted to get a resolution adopted declaring that the delegates to the
                    national convention should be "perfectly free and untrammeled" as far as any
                    commitments on the presidency were concerned. The Lincoln men were too strong and quickly overruled
                    the Germans.21
            
            After this excitement had subsided the permanent organization was completed and Joseph A. Wright, a
                    former governor, was made presiding officer. Governor Morton then came forward to deliver the
                    keynote address. Most of his speech was devoted to a defense of his administration and to a
                    recapitulation of the affairs of the state during the past year. Many times he digressed from this
                    to launch thrusts at the Democrats in Indiana whom he denounced as little better than partisans of
                    Jefferson Davis. After disposing of local matters, the Governor devoted himself to the broader arena
                    of national politics. He skillfully avoided all references to the troublesome questions of the
                    presidency and reconstruction and directed his chief attention at attacking the peace men who were
                    endangering the country. He closed his speech with a magnificent tribute to the Indiana soldiers and
                    said he would refuse to sanction any party or program, either state or national, which would lead to
                    the 
                  
                     20 Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton, I,
                            292–293; Harbison, "Indiana Republicans and the Re-election of President
                            Lincoln," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIV, 52; B. F. Tuttle to
                            S. Chase, February 5, 1864, Salmon P. Chase MSS.
                  
                     21
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Journal, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily State Sentinel, and 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Gazette, February 23, 1864; H. B. Carrington
                            to S. Chase, February 27, 1864, Salmon P. Chase MSS.
               
                     dismemberment of the Union or to a dishonorable peace. Thus
                    having identified himself and his party on the side of loyalty and the Union, Morton left the
                    platform amid a tremendous outburst of cheering.22
            
            The convention then proceeded to the adoption of the state platform. One resolution called for the
                    renomination of Lincoln because they regarded "his re-election to the position he now
                    occupies as essential to the speedy and triumphant end of the war." The delegates to the
                    national convention were instructed to vote for him. Two other resolutions declared in favor of
                    Oliver P. Morton for the governorship and Andrew Johnson for the vice-presidential nomination. The
                    platform further declared for the "full and complete restoration of the just authority of
                    the Union under the Constitution of the United States." The soldiers were thanked, and
                    resolution three declared that anyone who opposed the government, denounced its acts, refused to
                    give it financial support, or who organized secret societies to resist its laws was rendering the
                    "rebel cause more effective support than if they joined the rebel armies."23 Presumably this was directed at the Democrats. The convention continued in
                    session throughout the afternoon. Candidates for state offices were selected, as well as delegates
                    to the national convention, state electors, and a new state central committee.
            After the state convention adjourned, the internecine strife broke out afresh in the Union party. The
                    Germans were angry because of the Allen resolution and threatened to bolt the party. Even the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal deplored the action of the Lincoln men at the convention and censured them
                    for having rushed into the field too early. By early March, however, the editor of the Journal had to admit that further opposition to Lincoln was futile because of his great
                        popularity.24
            
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Gazette continued to advance Salmon 
                  
                     22
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Journal, February 24, 1864. During the
                            adoption of the Allen resolution Wright made a short speech in favor of Lincoln and called
                            him "the man for the times, above all living men."
                  
                     23
                            Ibid.; William E. Henry, State Platform of the Two Dominant
                                Political Parties in Indiana, 1850–1900 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1902), 26.
                  
                     24 H. B. Carrington to S. Chase, February 27, 1864, Salmon P. Chase
                            MSS; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Journal, February 27, March 10, 1864.
               
                     Chase's cause. The paper protested against the action
                    of the Lincoln men at the convention, and it insisted that he had merely ridden in on the coattails
                    of Morton, who was so popular with the delegates that anyone associated with his name would have
                    been endorsed for the presidency. Its opposition to Lincoln did not cease until after he was
                    nominated at 
                        Baltimore
                    , but even then the editor qualified his support by demanding that Lincoln should change
                    his cabinet. Now it could no longer disregard the wishes of the people by supporting Chase. In a
                    letter to Chase the editor claimed that ever since the state convention had declared for Lincoln the
                        Gazette was losing money. He added that if Chase still wished to have a paper
                    in Indiana he would have to bolster its finances with some government advertising.25 By this time, however, the Chase boom had died to a faint echo and apparently no financial
                    help was extended.
            The declaration of the Indiana Union State Convention for Lincoln on February 23 was followed by a
                    similar declaration from a caucus of Union members of the 
                        Ohio
                     legislature. Here again the Chase men were caught unprepared. No general invitation or
                    announcement of the proposed caucus had been made. The Chase men learned of the meeting quite by
                    accident, and when they hurried to the chamber they found only sixty-five of the one hundred and
                    nine Union members of the assembly present. James R. Hubbell, Columbus Delano, and John M. Connell
                    directed the Lincoln resolution. The Chase men tried to prevent its adoption and left the meeting
                    when they realized this could not be done. The resolution was then adopted even though there was not
                    a majority of the members present.26
            
            After the 
                        Ohio
                     legislature and the Indiana state convention had declared for Lincoln the Chase boom
                    was finished. Early in March, Chase announced that in view of the action in 
                        Ohio
                     he could no longer permit his name to be used. Chase probably still hoped, however,
                    that the 
                  
                     25
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Gazette, February 24, May 31, 1864; R. F.
                            Tuttle to S. Chase, February 24, 1864; J. F. Jordan to S. Chase, March 12, 1864, Salmon P.
                            Chase MSS.
                  
                     26 J. C. Hall to S. Chase, March 2, 1864; R. C. Parsons to S. Chase,
                            March 2, 1864, Salmon P. Chase MSS; 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Daily Commercial, February 27, 1864. Hall and Parsons give a full account
                            of the incident.
               
                     American people would realize his superiority and call him to
                    the presidency.27
            
            The radical Germans presented a more serious problem. They not only objected to the declaration for
                    Lincoln but also felt that they had been slighted in the matter of the state nominations. In order
                    to pacify them General Nathan Kimball suddenly declared that he could not accept the nomination for
                    the lieutenant-governorship, and the Union Central Committee conveniently chose the German leader,
                    Conrad Baker, to replace him. Many Germans were still unsatisfied. They met with a few other
                    malcontents at 
                        Indianapolis
                     and selected delegates to the 
                        Cleveland
                     convention which was to be held May 31. At 
                        Cleveland
                    , General Frémont was nominated upon a platform which was quite satisfactory
                    to the radicals. It called for the confiscation of rebel property. For many months Julian had been
                    urging a confiscation bill in Congress to provide land for homesteads for veterans and Negroes in
                    the South. He refused to support Frémont, however, especially after the General
                    repudiated the confiscation plank in his letter of acceptance. The prevailing public opinion in
                    Indiana was against any move which would endanger party solidarity. The Frémont
                    nomination was not generally well received throughout the state.28
            
            The following week the Union National Convention assembled at 
                        Baltimore
                     and nominated Lincoln and Johnson. The platform was acceptable to most Indiana
                    Unionists, although as in the case of the state platform it dodged the major issues of the war. The
                    platform called for the abolition of slavery by constitutional amendment and was hailed by the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal as the most fatal blow thus far struck against the Confederacy.29 Julian was disappointed 
                  
                     27 Smith, Chase and Civil War Politics,
                            124–133, 152; J. M. Winchell, "Three Interviews with President
                            Lincoln," Galaxy (25 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1866–1878), XVI (July, 1873), 38; Samuel Bowles to Miss Whitney,
                            September 4, 1864, in George S. Merriam, The Life and Times of Samuel
                            Bowles (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1885), I, 413. Bowles claims in his letter that Chase still had hopes of
                            getting nominated in September.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Gazette, April 18, 27, 1864; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Daily Journal, April 27, May 24, 1864; Clarke, George W. Julian, 252–257; Congressional Globe, 38
                            Cong., 1 Sess., 1185.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Journal, June 10, 1864. It is interesting to
                            note that on the very eve of the 
                                Baltimore
                             convention Lincoln was doubtful that he would receive the nomination. Alexander
                            K.
               
                     that the platform did not endorse his confiscation plan. Such a
                    plank had been approved by the subcommittee on resolutions but had been defeated in the full
                    committee by the efforts of McKee Dunn of Indiana. Julian was also sorry that Johnson was nominated.
                    The Congressman felt that Johnson did not subscribe to the principles embodied in the platform, and
                    that since he came from 
                        Tennessee
                     he did not "reside in the United States."30
                    Nevertheless, Julian was an effective campaigner in the canvass until illness forced him to
                    withdraw.
            A great ratification meeting was held at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on June 11. Morton was the principal speaker. He lauded the convention for having
                    nominated Lincoln and Johnson and called upon the Germans to support them. He attacked
                    Frémont and insisted that his letter of acceptance of the 
                        Cleveland
                     nomination could have been written and subscribed to by Clement Vallandigham, the
                    leader of the detested Copperheads.31 Meetings were held all over the state in
                    the most important cities to endorse the nominations. Considerable popular enthusiasm was manifested
                    in most cases. With the exception of a few "soreheads" the Unionists closed their
                    ranks and prepared for the canvass.
            The enthusiasm manifested during the ratification meetings was short-lived, for within a few weeks
                    after the convention the nation was plunged into a period of deep gloom. This period of despair
                    lasted until the first week in September. During this period objections to Lincoln increased and a
                    movement began to force his withdrawal from the nomination.32 By August, Lincoln
                    himself despaired of all prospects 
                  McClure, Our Presidents and How We Make Them (
                                New York
                            , 1900), 184; Abram J. Dittenhoefer, How We Elected Lincoln (
                                New York
                            , 1916), 77, 80–81.
                  
                     30 Julian, Political Recollections, 243; Clarke, George W. Julian, 257–259.
                  
                     31
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Journal, June 13, 1864; Harbison,
                            "Indiana Republicans and the Re-election of President Lincoln," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIV, 58.
                  
                     32 Nicolay and Hay, Abraham Lincoln: A History, IX,
                            250, 366; Henry G. Pearson, The Life of John A. Andrew, Governor of
                                Massachusetts, 1861–1865 (2 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1904), 11, 159–163; Ralph R. Fahrney, Horace Greeby
                                and the Tribune in the Civil War (Cedar Rapids, 
                                Iowa
                            , 1936), 196–198; Gurowski, Diary, III,
                            251–252; John Hay to John Nicolay, August 25, 1864, William R. Thayer, The Life and Letters of John Hay (2 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1915), I, 212–213; J. K. Herbert to B. F. Butler, August 11, 1864;
                            Colonel J. W. Shaffer to B. F. Butler, August 17, 27, 1864; G. Wilkes to B. F. Butler,
                            September 
               
                     for re-election and in a sealed document he pledged himself to
                    support his successor after the election.33 The despondency which seized the
                    Unionists is reflected in the apathy of their canvass during the summer. The party leaders reopened
                    the old internal bickerings, and the jubilant Democrats carefully postponed their convention until
                    late in August so that they would be better able to capitalize on their opponents'
                    misfortunes.
            There were two reasons why the country passed through this period of gloom during the summer months.
                    The first reason was the unpropitious military situation. The great armies massed under Grant and
                    Sherman in May had aroused the confident expectation that the war was rapidly entering its final
                    phase. By June 19, Grant's army had sustained heavy losses and was confronting Robert E.
                    Lee, who was entrenched behind seemingly impregnable fortifications at 
                        Petersburg
                    . On June 27, William T. Sherman had been stopped at Kennesaw Mountain and the wily
                    Joseph E. Johnston was preparing to hold him in check from behind his elaborate entrenchments at 
                        Atlanta
                    . Instead of ending in sudden victory the war seemed to be quickly turning into a long,
                    bloody war of attrition. At the same moment General Jubal Early's column made a raid into 
                        Maryland
                     and reached the very outskirts of Washington. That such offensive power could still be
                    mustered by a Confederacy which they had been told was tottering on the brink of disaster came as a
                    shock and a surprise to the people of the North. They invariably blamed the administration for these
                    difficulties.
            Accompanying these defeats came a strong peace sentiment which swept over the whole North. The peace
                    extremists in the Democratic party were quick to take advantage 
                  15, 1864, in Jessie A. Marshall (ed.), Private and Official Correspondence of
                                Gen. Benjamin F. Butler during the Period of the Civil War (5 vols., Norwood, 
                                Massachusetts
                            , 1917), V, 35, 67–69, 117–118, 134–135; C.
                            Sumner to F. Lieber, September 8, 1864, in Edward L. Pierce, Memoir and Letters
                                of Charles Sumner (4 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1887–1894), IV, 198; The 
                                New York
                            
                            Sun for June 30, 1889, reproduced fifty documents pertaining to the
                            efforts to force Lincoln from the presidential race in 1864.
                  
                     33 Nicolay and Hay, Abraham Lincoln: A History, IX,
                            251; John Hay, Letters of John Hay and Extracts from His Diary (3 vols.,
                            Washington, 1908), I, 242–243. The incident of the sealed document which Lincoln
                            requested his cabinet members to sign occurred on August 23, 1864.
               
                     of this sentiment and began holding mass meetings in nearly
                    every town of importance. In Indiana, Harrison H. Dodd, Commander of the Sons of Liberty and a
                    leader in the peace party, spoke before a meeting in Hendricks County. He proposed the immediate
                    creation of a Northwest Confederacy and threatened civil war if the administration attempted in any
                    way to interfere with the activities of the Democratic party in the state.34
            
            The second factor which led to the period of despondency also grew out of the military situation. The
                    defeats in May and June necessitated the issuing on July 19, 1864, of a proclamation calling for an
                    additional five hundred thousand troops, all deficiencies on each state's quota to be
                    made good by a draft on September 5. Governor Morton was alarmed at the reaction to this
                    announcement in Indiana. The prospects of a draft on the very eve of the state election greatly
                    diminished Morton's chances of re-election. The people were shocked to learn of the heavy
                    losses in the army, and the announcement of a new call convinced them that the losses were even
                    greater than had been reported.35 The Democratic leaders did not lose this
                    golden opportunity to show the incompetence of an administration that threw away lives so recklessly
                    and then blandly asked for another half million. They threatened that any attempts to enforce a
                    draft in Indiana would be met with violence.
            Morton's past experience with enlistment in his state proved that this was no idle threat.
                    On October 17, 1863, the government had issued a call for three hundred thousand volunteers;
                    drafting to fill deficiencies was to begin January 5, 1864. The original call was amended twice
                    until when finally issued on March 15, 1864, a total of seven hundred thousand troops were
                    requested, all deficiencies to be met by conscription on April 15. At that time General Carrington
                    had announced in 
                        Indianapolis
                     that these troops would be sufficient for all purposes and that the war would be over
                    by the end of the year. Morton had been able to 
                  
                     34
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily State Sentinel, June 27, 1864.
                  
                     35 The Union papers in Indiana tried to show that the new call was
                            necessary to replace the three-year veterans whose enlistments were to expire. See ibid., July 28, 1864. Indiana's quota of troops was 25, 662.
                                The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official Records of the
                                Union and Confederate Armies (70 vols., Washington, 1880–1901), Series
                            3, IV (1900), 515–516.
               
                     raise Indiana's quota, although some local districts
                    were in arrears. When Washington suggested that a draft should be held in these districts, Morton
                    refused to comply. He pointed out that his state as a whole had furnished an excess above all
                        calls.36 Thus Indiana escaped the draft early in 1864.
            In April, 1864, Morton and his fellow governors of 
                  Ohio, Illinois, Wisconsin
               , and 
                        Iowa
                     consulted together and agreed to raise eighty-five thousand one-hundred-day volunteers
                    for routine duties behind the lines so that troops could be released to deliver the coup de grace to the Confederacy. On April 21, Lincoln and Edwin M. Stanton accepted this
                    offer, although they misconstrued the number as one hundred thousand. Indiana's quota was
                    set at twenty thousand.37
            
            Morton made every effort to raise these volunteers, but in the end he was unsuccessful. The Democrats
                    insisted there was no reason why Indiana should supply additional troops when the eastern states
                    were in arrears. Even the Union papers were not enthusiastic about the calling of volunteers. On May
                    5, the Journal wrote that the plan was a failure, and by the end of the month it
                    was obvious that the quota would never be met. The state was still nearly twelve thousand five
                    hundred short of its goal.38 General Conrad Baker wrote to Washington that
                    Morton had reached the conclusion that no more volunteers could be expected from Indiana.
                    "Vie Governor says that if more men are required they must be drafted; that it will be
                    impossible to procure volunteers, and that it would be injurious to make the effort and fail in it.
                    I think the difficulty of procuring volunteers, even for the 100-days' service, shows
                    that he is right in this opinion."39
            
            Indiana, 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and 
                        Iowa
                     failed to meet their quotas of one-hundred-day volunteers. The people had lost their
                    fervor for enlisting, and on the basis of this experience in 
                  
                     36
                            The War of the Rebellion, Series 3, III (1899), 892; ibid., IV, 57–58, 59, 151, 181, 182–185; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Journal, February 5, 1864.
                  
                     37
                            The War of the Rebellion, Series 3, IV, 237–240, 262, 264,
                            280–283, 385, 406, 412, 413, 417. The Democrats claimed that Morton had objected
                            to a longer term of service because he wanted to have the troops back in time to vote or to
                            intimidate Democrats at the polls. 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily State Sentinel, April 25, 26, 29, 1864.
                  
                     38
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily State Sentinel, April 25, 1864; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Journal, May 31, 1864.
                  
                     39
                            The War of the Rebellion, Series 3, IV, 399. General Conrad Baker to
                            General James Fry, May 21, 1864.
               
                     April and May, Morton was convinced that the new call in July
                    could never be filled except by conscription.
            The Democrats were in an excellent position to capitalize on the situation which prevailed during the
                    summer months, but unfortunately their party was nearly as badly divided as the Union party had
                    been. There were three factions in the Democratic party: the war Democrats, who approved of a policy
                    of all-out effort for victory; the peace Democrats, who demanded an immediate cessation of
                    hostilities and peace even at the cost of the Union. In Indiana this group was led by Harrison B.
                    Dodd. The third group was the moderate group. They were numerically superior to the other two. They
                    wanted peace as soon as possible, but they were unwilling to accept it on any basis other than
                    "the union as it was and the constitution as it is." They disliked Lincoln because
                    of his disregard for civil liberty and his violations of the constitution.
            In Indiana as in the other states the military situation in July gave special impetus to the peace
                    element, who although they were few in number were especially noisy. Lambdin P. Milligan was their
                    choice for the gubernatorial nomination. In a public declaration he went on record as being in favor
                    of disunion rather than to continue a war which was menacing liberty and reducing his people to a
                    "state of pecuniary vassalage" to the East.40
            
            The Democratic county conventions refused to accept the leadership of the peace men and adopted
                    resolutions in favor of the continuation of the war until the Union was restored. Their chief
                    objection to the administration was that its actions were unconstitutional, and that it had not
                    prosecuted the war successfully enough. In looking forward to the national convention many of the
                    county meetings urged that the party go into the canvass on a war platform with General George B.
                    McClellan as the nominee.41
            
            On July 12, the Democratic State Convention met, at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The meeting was entirely in the hands of the moderates, who promptly proceeded to
                    elect David Turpie as the permanent chairman. Turpie's keynote speech reflected 
                  
                     40
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily State Sentinel, July 8, 1864; James A.
                            Woodburn, "Party Politics in Indiana During the Civil War," in Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the Year 1902 (2
                            vols., Washington, 1903), I, 223–252; Earle D. Ross, "Northern
                            Sectionalism in the Civil War Era," in The 
                                    Iowa
                                 Journal of History and Politics (
                        Iowa City, Iowa
                     ,
                            1903-), XXX (1932), 455–512.
                  
                     41
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily State Sentinel, January 9, 12, 13, 16, 19,
                            April 19, June 6, 18, 20, July 2, 6, 1864.
               
                     the sentiments of the moderates. He insisted that only under a
                    Democratic administration could the Union and the constitution be restored as they were and the
                    armies given efficient leadership.
            In the selection of state officers the moderates once again showed their power and easily selected
                    Joseph E. McDonald for governor in preference to the peace candidate, Lambdin P. Milligan. Turpie
                    was nominated for lieutenant-governor, but he later withdrew in favor of General Mahlon D. Manson,
                    when he was nominated for Congress.42
            
            In the afternoon session McDonald addressed the gathering. He officially opened the Democratic state
                    canvass by firing a broadside at Oliver Morton. He gave a critical estimate of the
                    Governor's administration and attacked his financial policies especially. McDonald
                    insisted that he was a rigid believer in the check and balance system of government, and that he
                    would never interfere with the other branches of the state government as Morton had done. He then
                    turned to national politics and outlined the moderate Democrat policy as follows: "I am for
                    peace at the earliest practicable moment; but peace on the terms of the restoration of the Union
                    under the Federal Constitution with all its rights and guarantees to the several States North and
                        South."43
            
            The party platform was another triumph for the moderates. It opened with a scathing denunciation of
                    Morton. "We utterly condemn as revolutionary and subversive of the Constitution of our
                    State, the action of Governor O. P. Morton in counselling the factious and lawless conduct of the
                    Republican members of the last General Assembly … we denounce as worthy of especial
                    condemnation the conduct of Governor Morton in usurping, for personal and partisan purposes, the
                    powers and functions of the co-ordinate departments of the government."
            The platform proceeded to denounce him further for establishing a "financial
                    bureau." The Democrats condemned the federal administration for its "crimes
                    against civilization," its "shamelessly dishonest waste of the people's
                    money," and for having "brought the nation to the verge of bankruptcy and general
                    ruin." The platform then declared that the party desired the "restoration of
                    liberty, and the 
                  
                     42
                            ibid., July 26, August 13, 1864. McDonald had been endorsed by many
                            Democratic county conventions.
                  
                     43
                            ibid., July 13, 1864.
               
                     rights of the States under that Constitution
                    unimpaired." The Democrats also wanted an "early and honorable peace" and
                    in conclusion they said they would maintain their personal and constitutional liberty "to
                    the bitter end." The platform was adopted in spite of the protests of the peace men, and
                    the convention adjourned.44
            
            The peace men were displeased with the outcome of the state convention, and they continued to keep up
                    a steady opposition. The platform was a disappointment to the Unionists also. For weeks they had
                    been claiming that the Democratic party was the tool of the peace men and that Dodd and his Sons of
                    Liberty would dominate the convention and write a peace plank into the platform. The moderateness of
                    the platform compelled the Unionists to change their tactics. They insisted that the convention was
                    really dominated by the peace men who had adopted a moderate platform simply to deceive the public
                    as to the real nature of their party. This was apparent, they said, from the fact that the platform
                    "had not a single word to say for the Union and not a single condemnation of Jeff
                        Davis."45
            
            The Democratic National Convention at 
                        Chicago
                     on August 29 nominated General George B. McClellan. He was extremely popular among the
                    Indiana Democrats. The platform was a triumph for the peace men. It contained the "war
                    failure" plank which called the war a failure and demanded an immediate cessation of
                    hostilities. The nomination of a war candidate like McClellan was not popular with the peace men. It
                    may have been the intention of the peace men to force McClellan to decline the nomination because of
                    the "war failure" plank. With the popular choice out of the way they could have
                    called another convention and nominated a man more to their liking. The General had said he would
                    not accept the nomination if he did not approve of the platform. If the peace men hoped for
                    Mc-Clellan's refusal, they were badly disappointed for he accepted the nomination but in
                    his letter of acceptance completely repudiated the peace plank of the platform.46 Clement 
                  
                     44
                            Ibid.;
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Journal, July 13, 1864; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Gazette, July 13, 1864. Henry, State Platforms of the Two Dominant Political Parties in Indiana,
                            25–26; Kenneth M. Stampp, Indiana in the Civil War (Ph.D. dissertation,
                            University of Wisconsin, 
                        Madison, Wisconsin
                     , 1941), 431.
                  
                     45
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily State Sentinel, August 16, September 9, 1864; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Journal, July 21, 1864.
                  
                     46 Charles R. Wilson, "McClellan's Changing View
                            on the Peace Plank of 1864," American Historical Review (
                                New York
                            , 1895-),
               
                     Vallandigham, the leader of the peace men, refused to support
                    the General, and he tried to get Daniel Voorhees, the peace Democrat in Indiana, also to repudiate
                    him. Voorhees refused to do this and in a public statement urged the peace men of Indiana to stand
                    behind McClellan.47
            
            At the McClellan ratification meeting at 
                        Indianapolis
                     the party pledged him its support. All references to his repudiation of the peace plank
                    were conspicuous by their absence. McClellan was for peace, "but for a peace upon the basis
                    of Union."48 This view coincided with the view of the majority of the
                    party. Throughout 1864 the Democratic party in Indiana was to remain in control of the moderates. It
                    was definitely a union party in the sense that its members believed in the further prosecution of
                    the war until the Union was restored.
            While the country was entering into the doldrums of despair during the summer, both parties launched
                    their election campaigns. Early in the campaign the Indiana Democrats introduced Morton's
                    record as a major issue. His financial policies and his usurpations of executive power were
                    thoroughly exploited by the Democrats, and when the Governor sought to defend himself they attacked
                    him even more. On June 25, for example, Judge Samuel E. Perkins attacked Morton in a speech at 
                        Centerville
                    . Perkins recounted his numerous usurpations of authority and insisted that the
                    "public treasury of the state was in the breeches pockets of Governor Morton." The
                    Governor replied to these accusations early in July at 
                        Centerville
                     in a speech filled with denials and invective against Perkins and his party. A few
                    weeks later Joseph McDonald, the gubernatorial candidate, continued the attack on
                    Morton's administration in a 
                  XXXVIII (1932–1933), 498–505. See also J. Lawrence to G. McClellan,
                            August 31, 1864; L. Edgerton to G. McClellan, September 3, 1864; J. Douglas to G. McClellan,
                            September 5, 1864, George R. McClellan MSS; S. S. Cox to M. Marble, September 10, 1864,
                            Manton M. Marble MSS.
                  
                     47
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily State Sentinel, September 14, 1864. There was
                            a meeting at 
                                Cincinnati
                             on October 18 of the peace men. Indiana was represented by Lafe Develin. They
                            declared that the war was unconstitutional and demanded that McClellan withdraw from the
                            race. 
                        
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Convention October 18, 1864 for the Organization of a Peace Party Upon
                                State Rights, Jeffersonian Democratic Principles and for the Promotion of Peace and
                                Independent Nominations for President and Vice President, of the United States
                            (n.p., n.d.).
                  
                     48
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily State Sentinel, September 3, 10, 19,
                        1864.
               
                     speech at 
                        Greencastle
                    .49 Morton hurried to 
                        Greencastle
                     the following week to give his rebuttal. Here again he tried to refute the charges by
                    accusing McDonald of disloyalty and saying that "every open and avowed
                    secessionist—every worshiper of Jeff Davis—every Knight of the Golden Circle,
                    and every Son of Liberty—every Southern spy who is lurking through our borders"
                    preferred McDonald's election. Both men finally participated in a series of debates
                    beginning at 
                        La Porte
                     on August 10. They held two debates in each congressional district. Public passions
                    were running so high at the time that it was not uncommon for men in the audiences to come armed.
                    These debates added little to the issues of the campaign, for they were usually filled with bitter
                    appeals to the emotions of the audiences rather than to their reason. Morton repeatedly attempted to
                    get McDonald to declare his opinion on the question of an armistice and to tell what the Democrats
                    would do if the South rejected their offer of peace with union. Finally, McDonald was reluctantly
                    compelled to admit that in such a situation the party would have no course but to continue the
                        war.50
            
            The Democratic speakers also attacked Lincoln's administration as well as
                    Morton's. They protested against emancipation, the violation of civil rights, taxation,
                    huge debts, military losses, and aroused the sectional hatreds of the Hoosiers by constantly
                    claiming that the war was reducing the western farmer and laborer to a status of serfdom under the
                    eastern bondholders.51
            
            The Union press and speakers insisted that the great issue of the election was the
                    "preservation of the Union and the quelling of the rebellion."52 They insisted that the victory of the Union party at the polls was as necessary to the
                    welfare of the country as a military victory in the field. They constantly claimed that if the
                    Democrats won the election the country would be divided and a Northwest Confederacy would be
                    established. A campaign biography 
                  
                     49
                            ibid., June 26, July 22, 1864; Foulke, Life of Oliver P.
                                Morton, I, 298–299.
                  
                     50
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Journal, July 28, 1864. The same theme was
                            apparent in the speech at 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            . Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton, I, 303–366.
                  
                     51 See the speeches reported in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily State Sentinel, March 17, 26, April 20, 27,
                            May 19, 24, June 22, July 4, 6, 28, August 17, September 1, 5, 26, 30, October 3, 7, and
                            November 3, 1864.
                  
                     52 Henry Raymond to the Chairmen of the Union State Committees, July
                            28, 1864, Edward McPherson MSS.
               
                     of Morton was written and given wide circulation to counteract
                    the Democrats' charges against him. The war Democrats, who were supporting
                    Lincoln's administration, were given ample opportunity to speak in Indiana to instruct
                    their fellow Democrats not to vote for the party of disunion but to vote for Lincoln.53 Several generals were also brought forward to tell how the army preferred Lincoln and
                    later a number of men of national importance were brought into the state to speak.54
            
            Until after the 
                        Chicago
                     convention, however, the Union canvass did not look very promising in Indiana. On the
                    eve of the convention Schuyler Colfax, who had been making a canvass of his district, reported to
                    Lincoln that the draft, the armed traitors, the military defeats, high prices, and the prolongation
                    of the war were ruining their party's chances. Every effort should be made to carry the
                    October state elections, Colfax said, for the presidential election would depend on them. He
                    recommended that Lincoln should do three 
                  
                     53 See the speeches reported in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Journal, June 21, 24, 27, August 18, 1864.
                            See also the speeches of Joseph Wright, D. S. Gooding, and James Hughes in ibid., April 4, August 29, and September 1, 1864. 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Gazette, September 19, 1864. William M.
                            French, Life, Speeches, State Papers and Public Services of Gov. Oliver P.
                                Morton (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1864).
                  
                     54 Such important men as Andrew Johnson, Salmon Chase, General John A.
                            Logan, and James A. Garfield spoke in Indiana for the Union party. See 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Journal, August 16, September 16, 19, 29,
                            October 7, 1864; J. Wright to A. Johnson, September 26, 1864; H. Maynard to A. Johnson,
                            September 25, 1864; O. Morton to A. Johnson, September 26, 1864, Andrew Johnson MSS. Morton
                            said that Johnson was scheduled to speak at 
                        Logansport, Fort Wayne, Tipton, Seymour, Vincennes
                     , and 
                                Mitchell
                            . The tour was to last six days. Morton said that the situation was so grave
                            that he would appreciate it if Johnson would deliver a few more speeches during the period.
                            See also A. Fletcher to A. Johnson, July 30, 1864; J. Defrees to A. Johnson, August 11,
                            1864; S. Colfax to A. Johnson, August 17, 1864, Andrew Johnson MSS; O. Morton to W. Dunn,
                            August 22, 1864, Joseph Holt MSS, Library of Congress. Morton asked Dunn if Holt could come
                            to Indiana to speak. The Democrats were not as fortunate in getting celebrities to speak in
                            Indiana. G. Arnold to M. Marble, September 25, 1864, Manton Marble MSS; H. Seymour to G.
                            McClellan, September 26, 1864, George McClellan MSS. Seymour said he could not come to
                            Indiana because he felt he could do more good "by remaining in 
                                Albany
                             than by traipsing around speaking in Indiana." Ex-President Fillmore
                            also declined to speak in Indiana. Fillmore to H. Ketchum, September 16, 1864, George
                            McClellan MSS. One amusing incident occurred at 
                                Plymouth
                            , Indiana, on August 28. A crowd of Democrats were at the station to serenade
                            McClellan who they heard was aboard the train on his way to 
                                Chicago
                            . So as not to disappoint them the Democrats produced a colonel going home on
                            furlough and passed him off as McClellan much to the satisfaction of the crowd. Noah Brooks,
                                Washington in Lincoln's Time (
                                New York
                            , 1896), 182.
               
                     things to help his cause in Indiana: (1), make some formal
                    proffer of peace to the South which Davis would have to reject; (2), arrest Harrison Dodd, the
                    Commander of the Sons of Liberty; (3), postpone the draft which was scheduled in October for
                    "if it is a necessity before the election, we shall all go under."55
            
            The political situation changed after September 1. The victories at 
                        Atlanta
                    , Mobile, and in the Shenandoah revived the confident expectation that the war was
                    speedily drawing to a close. Such victories proved that the war and the administration were not
                    failures as the Democrats had charged. The 
                        Chicago
                     platform with its peace plank shocked most of the people who loved the old Union and
                    wanted it restored. The fact that McClellan repudiated the platform in his letter of acceptance did
                    not alter the situation. The people became hostile to a candidate and a party which seemed to be
                    against the Union.
            The Democratic platform also reunited the Union party. After the "
                        Chicago
                     abortion" all the malcontents hurried to pledge their loyalty to Lincoln and
                    his fortunes began to rise.56 On September 21, Frémont bowed to the
                    inevitable and withdrew from the race. The whole canvass in September and October hinged on the 
                        Chicago
                     platform and its implications of surrender to the Confederacy. The Unionists claimed
                    that such views were treasonable and that the Democratic party was filled with friends of Jeff
                    Davis. It was not necessarily true, the Unionists said, that every Democrat was a traitor, but it
                    was indisputable that every traitor was a Democrat.
            The chief issue in the campaign now became that of domestic treason, and in the development of this
                    issue Oliver 
                  
                     55 S. Colfax to Lincoln, August 29, 1864, Edwin Stanton MSS; G. Orth
                            to E. McPherson, August 8, 1864, Edward McPherson MSS; O. Morton to W. Dunn, August 22,
                            1864, Joseph Holt MSS; A. Denny to J. Sherman, August 21, 1864, John Sherman MSS. Denny
                            wrote, "I think Indiana is lost for both Lincoln and Morton. I was told at 
                                Indianapolis
                             last week by some of Morton's best friends that it was extremely
                            doubtful whether he could carry the state. There is a dreadful apathy prevailing in all this
                            region [Denny was writing from Eaton, 
                                Ohio
                            ] and nearly all of Indiana."
                  
                     56 McMaster, A History of the United States during
                                Lincoln's Administration, 523–524; Dudley, "The
                            Election of 1864," 
                        Mississippi Valley Historical
                                Review, XVIII, 511–512; Welles, Diary, II, 135, 140;
                            B. Butler to Mrs. Butler, September 3, 1864; J. K. Herbert to R. Butler, September 26, 1864;
                            Col. Shaffer to B. F. Butler, October 31, 1864, Marshall, Correspondence of
                                Gen. Benjamin F. Butler, V, 128, 167–168, 305–306; J. B.
                            Bingham to A. Johnson, September 16, 1864, Andrew Johnson MSS; C. Sumner to R. Cobden,
                            September 18, 1864, Pierce, Memoir and Letters of Charles Sumner, IV,
                            199–200.
               
                     Morton played a decisive role. Morton had been keeping a close
                    watch for several months on the Sons of Liberty in his state. The Sons of Liberty was an esoteric
                    society. Most of the members were Democrats who probably joined simply because they felt it was a
                    political club organized to advance the interests of their party. They did not feel that its
                    activities were treasonable or dangerous to the Union in any way. It was supposed to be a
                    quasi-military organization. The local chapters were called "castles," Dodd was
                    the "Grand Commander," and there were "generals" and other
                    officials with military titles. These positions existed in name only: no actual military
                    organization was ever carried out. The membership in Indiana probably never reached more than
                    eighteen thousand members, and most of them were inactive.57 Morton and General
                    Carrington, the commander in the Indiana district, had been busy for months investigating the order
                    in their state. Their spies and informers could never gather any evidence which proved the existence
                    of treasonable or illegal action. This, however, did not deter Morton and Carrington. They gleaned a
                    large quantity of what Edgar Conkling called "floating testimony." Most of it was
                    pure hearsay, but it could be used to good purposes.58 Carrington turned this
                    data over to Advocate General Joseph Holt who immediately published a lengthy report of the
                    treasonable activities in the Northwest. The document was given wide circulation in the Union press
                    and appeared as a Union campaign document.59 On July 30, Morton and Carrington
                    published a report of their own in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal of a full revelation of the ritual, organization, and purposes of the
                    secret society in Indiana.60 Here again no 
                  
                     57 Benn Pitman (ed.), The Trials for Treason at 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1865); Mayo Fesler,
                            "Secret Political Societies in the North during the Civil War, Indiana
                                Magazine of History, XIV (1918), 234–236.
                  
                     58 E. Conkling to J. Holt, November 7, 8, 1864, Joseph Holt MSS.
                            Conkling made a report to Holt concerning the loyalty of General McClellan. Most of the
                            report is composed of wild rumors. For example, Conkling reported that McClellan used to
                            visit Lee while they were confronting each other at Antietam. Conkling's motives
                            for gathering all these rumors are revealed in his statement, "If we get it
                            McClellan and his associates will be politically killed tomorrow."
                  
                     59
                            Report of Judge Advocate General on ‘Order of American.
                                Knights’ alias ‘The Sons of Liberty’ A Western
                                Conspiracy in Aid of the Southern Rebellion (Washington, 1864). The
                                War of the Rebellion, Series 3, IV, 577–579.
                  
                     60
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Journal, July 30, August 1, 2, 1864. These
                            revelations were made on the basis of evidence gathered by Felix Stidger. Stidger had
                            feigned interest in the Sons of Liberty
               
                     definite conspiracy or treasonable activities could be proved
                    except by a gross distortion of the evidence. The Union journals, however, were willing to distort
                    the facts to prove that the Democrats were traitors.
            At the time of these revelations, Dodd and his associates were busy with an absurd scheme which was
                    to ruin their party's chances in the election and play right into the waiting hands of
                    Oliver Morton. Dodd obtained some funds from a Confederate agent in 
                        Canada
                     and devised a plan to liberate some prisoners, unite all the malcontents, and establish
                    a Northwest Confederacy. The uprising was set to take place on August 16, 1864.
            The plans for the uprising were revealed to Morton who immediately took the necessary precautions. At
                    the same time Dodd revealed his plans to some of his friends who quickly realized that such a scheme
                    would ruin the Democrats' chances in the election in Indiana and would also kill them in
                    the national election. They forced him to abandon his plans. August 16 passed without any uprising,
                    and the Democratic leaders breathed easier.
            The party leaders had not, however, reckoned on the resourceful Governor Morton. He knew that much
                    political capital could be made of Dodd's proposed uprising. This would be especially
                    true if he could link it to the Democratic party and the Sons of Liberty. On August 20,
                    Morton's men raided Dodd's office and found four hundred revolvers in boxes
                    labeled "tracts." A large amount of his correspondence was also seized revealing
                    that many Democratic leaders were members of the Sons of Liberty. The Union papers were quick to
                    give the entire affair as much publicity as possible. Two days later while public sentiment was
                    aroused Morton held a mass meeting in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In his speech he claimed that Dodd and his misguided associates were really tools of
                    Jeff Davis, who having realized that the Confederacy was about to fall, was now trying to save his
                    government by encouraging revolt in the North.61
            
            The 
                        Chicago
                     platform, which was issued shortly after 
                  and gained the confidence of Dodd and other leaders. As fast as he learned their secrets
                            he turned the information over to Carrington and Morton. Felix Stidger, Treason
                                History of the Sons of Liberty (
                                Chicago
                            , 1903).
                  
                     61 Fesler, "Secret Political Societies in the North during
                            the Civil War," Indiana Magazine of History, XIV,
                            243–244, 247–248, 249–250, 285–286; Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton, I, 299–417; Pitman, The
                                Trials for Treason at 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 97–105; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Journal, August 4, 10, 11, 12, 22, 23, 24,
                            1864.
               
                     the raid in Indiana, further weakened the position of the
                    Democrats. Morton prepared to deliver another blow to his tottering opponents. He decided to arrest
                    some of the men implicated in the August 16 conspiracy and try them for treason. General Carrington
                    refused to arrest Dodd because of insufficient evidence. He was promptly removed by Morton and was
                    replaced by General Alvin P. Hovey. Hovey arrested Dodd on September 3 as the latter was returning
                    from the 
                        Chicago
                     convention.
            On September 22, Dodd went on trial. He at once pleaded not guilty to the charges of conspiracy,
                    giving aid and comfort to the enemy, and inciting insurrection. Dodd and his counselors handled
                    themselves well for the first few days of the trial. The prosecution was not able to prove the
                    accusations. On the twenty-seventh, Felix Stidger took the stand. It was only then that Dodd
                    realized that he had been confiding his thoughts to an informer. The discovery that Stidger was one
                    of Morton's men shattered the reserve of Harrison Dodd. The informer's
                    testimony was complete and thorough, but he at no time could definitely prove that the Democratic
                    party was openly involved in Dodd's schemes or even that the whole affair was inherently
                    a conspiracy.62
            
            A steady procession of detectives, informers, spies, deserters, and renegades followed Stidger to the
                    stand. Here again no treasonable activities could be proved. In the course of the testimony a
                    sufficient number of the members of the Democratic party in Indiana were involved as members of the
                    Sons of Liberty to forge a link in the public mind between the society and the party. The revelation
                    that Clement L. Vallandigham, regarded by everyone as the chief author of the "war
                    failure" plank in the 
                        Chicago
                     platform, was the Commander of the Sons of Liberty was the final proof that the party
                    and the society were linked and that both seemed to be implicated in some kind of a conspiracy. The
                    whole trial gave the Union press all the ammunition it needed to bombard their opponents.63 Union speakers also carried the news to a waiting public, and even Judge
                    Henry 
                  
                     62
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Journal, September 5, 1864; Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton, I, 419; Pitman, The Trials for
                                Treason at 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 9–19, 19–37; Stidger, Treason
                                History of the Sons of Liberty, 151–152; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily State Sentinel, September 5, 7, 8, 20, 22,
                            23, 24, 26, 28, 29, October 1, 3, 6, 7, 8, 1864.
                  
                     63 Wood Gray, The Hidden Civil War (
                                New York
                            , 1942), 197–198; Kenneth M. Stampp, "The Milligan Case and
                            the Election of 1864 in Indiana, 
                        Mississippi Valley
                                Historical Review, XXXI (1944–1945), 41–58.
               
                     L. Burnett, who was presiding at the trial, gave political
                    harangues every evening in 
                        Indianapolis
                     about Democratic perfidy.
            There was danger that Dodd would prove to be a white elephant to Morton and the Union party. A
                    sufficiently conclusive case could not be built against him on the basis of the evidence presented.
                    Fortunately for Morton the prisoner conveniently escaped on October 7 and fled to 
                        Canada
                    . No real effort was made to apprehend him. The elephant was off Morton's
                    doorstep, and the Union press jubilantly claimed that Dodd's flight was conclusive proof
                    of his guilt.64 Later the government brought proceedings against other members
                    of the Sons of Liberty in Indiana, but these new affairs contributed nothing additional to the Union
                    propaganda campaign which so completely attached the stigma of treason to the Democratic party.
            Morton sought in other ways to assure a Union victory at the polls. He asked the government to check
                    the migration into Indiana from the South. He felt that these people would be used to augment the
                    Democratic vote in Indiana. He also wanted to have enough soldiers furloughed home in October to
                    assure him a majority. Early in April, he had written to Washington on this matter. Lincoln passed
                    this request on to William Sherman who gave it a cold reception. On July 18, editor J. Bingham,
                    chairman of the Democratic State Central Committee, wrote to Morton that his party would like to
                    combine with the Unionists to request the administration to send troops home for the state election.
                    Morton promptly replied favorably to this offer and forwarded the joint request to Edwin Stanton. No
                    action, however, was taken. In August, Schuyler Colfax wrote to William Sherman again repeating the
                    same request, and once again the General replied in the negative.65 On September
                    12, Morton and the Indiana Union congressmen wrote to Stanton 
                  
                     64
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Journal, October 8, 1864; Pitman, The Trials for Treason at 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 50; Stidger, Treason History of the Sons of
                            Liberty, 152–153; Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton, I,
                            420–422.
                  
                     65
                            The War of the Rebellion, Series 3, IV, 711–712; Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton, I, 365–369; J. Bingham to O. Morton,
                            July 18, 1864; Morton to "Candidates on the Democratic State Ticket," July
                            25, 1864, Edwin M. Stanton MSS; Rachel S. Thorndike, The Sherman Letters (
                                New York
                            , 1894), 238–239; S. Colfax to John Sherman, August 2, 1864, John
                            Sherman MSS; John in turn wrote on August 6, 1864, to his brother making the request that
                            the soldiers be sent home. This letter is preserved in the W. T. Sherman MSS, Library of
                            Congress.
               
                     asking that fifteen thousand soldiers be sent home at once and
                    that the draft be delayed until after the election. Morton reminded Stanton that the outcome of the
                    national election would probably depend on the state elections in October and that without the
                    soldier vote Indiana would be lost. Stanton passed the request on to Lincoln who in turn wrote to
                    Sherman telling him of the situation in Indiana. Lincoln asked Sherman to send home some troops if
                    it could be done safely. Sherman was reluctant to spare his men during such a critical time. The
                    best Morton could do was obtain permission to bring home only the sick and wounded soldiers. Special
                    agents were at once dispatched from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to round up all the disabled soldiers they possibly could. About nine thousand troops
                    finally reached home to facilitate Morton's triumph.66 Since the
                    Governor won by twenty thousand votes, all the agitation over the furloughing of soldiers was
                    superfluous.
            In regard to Morton's request that the draft should be delayed, he was completely
                    unsuccessful. He made a personal visit to Lincoln and Stanton in 
                        Washington
                     on this matter, but they refused him. William Sherman had told Lincoln that if the
                    draft did not go off on schedule the troops at the front might turn on the government.67 The draft went into operation according to schedule, and the threats of violence and
                    resistance failed to materialize.
            On the eve of the state election the Union party leaders were confident of victory. This confidence
                    was not misplaced for Morton was re-elected by a twenty thousand majority, the state legislature was
                    also captured, and the Union party carried eight of the eleven congressional seats. This sparkling
                    victory was achieved without a postponement of the draft and with far less than the fifteen thousand
                    soldiers Morton had requested. The Democrats denounced 
                  
                     66 O. Morton to E. Stanton, September 12, 1864, Edwin Stanton MSS. A.
                            Lincoln to W. Sherman, September 19, 1864, John G. Nicolay and John Hay, Complete Works of Abraham Lincoln (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1894), II, 577–578. During the month before the state election
                            Morton was accused by the authorities of holding back the new regiments from the front so
                            they would be on hand to vote. He was also accused of discriminating against Democratic
                            soldiers in the matter of permitting them to vote.
                  
                     67
                            The War of the Rebellion, Series 1, XLII, Part 2 (1893),
                            783–784; ibid., Series 3, IV, 732; Foulke, Life of
                                Oliver P. Morton, I, 366–369. Other politicians requested Lincoln to
                            postpone the draft. He usually dismissed them by saying, "What is the Presidency
                            worth to me if I have no country?" Nicolay and Hay, Abraham Lincoln: A
                                History, IX, 364–366.
               
                     the results as completely fraudulent and predicted that
                    McClellan would easily win in November.68
            
            The Union campaigners did not relax for a moment. Important speakers were brought into the state. A
                    great mass meeting was held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on October 14 at which Morton spoke. On the eve of the national election the new
                    treason trials began so that the voters would be reminded just in case they had forgotten the
                    revelations of the Dodd trial.
            On November 8, Lincoln carried the state by a twenty thousand majority over McClellan. He had made
                    some slight gains over the voting in 1860, and his party made a complete recovery after its heavy
                    losses in the election of 1862. The October election was a complete vindication of
                    Morton's administration, and the November election proved that Lincoln still had a real
                    "hold on the affections and confidence of the people."69
            
            The state elections in October had been long and bitter, but in the end the Union party emerged
                    victorious in each of them. These triumphs were a favorable omen for the outcome of the national
                    election in November. Lincoln was re-elected largely because of three factors: (1), the military
                    victories at 
                        Atlanta
                     and Mobile in September; (2), the Union party victories in the October state elections;
                    and (3), the successful application of the charge of domestic treason to the Democratic party. Thus
                    in the election of 1864 the role of Indiana was very important. She was one of the most critical of
                    the October states, and Governor Morton had greatly facilitated the development of the treason issue
                    by his attack on the Sons of Liberty and Harrison Dodd.
            
               
                  68 S. Chase to J. Sherman, October 2, 1864, John Sherman MSS. Chase wrote,
                        "There is not the slightest uncertainty about the reelection of Mr. Lincoln."
                        See also 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, Daily Journal October 19, 20, 1864; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, Daily State Sentinel, October 12, 14, 15, 17, 21, 24,
                        26, 1864; John Lane to G. McClellan, October 13, 1864; William Prime to G. McClellan, October
                        20, 1864, George B. McClellan MSS. Prime was confident that McClellan would carry
                                
                     New Jersey, New York
                  
                        
                     Pennsylvania, Kentucky, California, Oregon, Maryland
                  , and 
                            Delaware
                        . Prime said he had fair chances also in 
                     Illinois, Connecticut, Missouri, Michigan, New Hampshire
                  , and
                        Indiana.
               
                  69
                        The Tribune Almanac and Political Register for 1864 (
                            New York
                        , 1865), 58, gives the election results. 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, Daily Journal, October 15, November 12, 1864,
            
         
         
         
            Nineteenth-Century Literary Visitors to the Hoosier State:
            A Chapter in American Cultural History
            Robert R. Hubach*
            
            Although Indiana is well known as the birthplace and home of more famous writers than almost any
                    other Midwestern state—Edward Eggleston, Lew Wallace, James Whitcomb Riley, and Theodore
                    Dreiser, to mention only a few,—individuals seldom realize that numerous
                    nineteenth-century British and American authors were guests of Hoosierdom and wrote historically
                    important impressions of their visits. At least twenty-nine significant writers not natives of the
                    state touched the borders of, passed through, toured, or lectured in Indiana during the last
                    century. This number may not be so large as several eastern states might boast, but
                    Indiana's central location between the Atlantic Coast and the West was, nevertheless,
                    advantageous in bringing within her borders people who were traveling across the country. Most of
                    the writers were attracted by the scenery of the wilderness and were curious about the inhabitants;
                    in general, the Americans were more interested in the aspects of nature, while the English were more
                    intent on studying manners and morals. Seldom was either one concerned with economic conditions. Not
                    the least of the English authors' purposes was to earn money by lecturing and writing;
                    they became piqued when they were poorly received and often stayed for too short a time to obtain
                    accurate impressions. On the other hand, the Americans traveled primarily to see the West and visit
                    friends and relatives. Their opinions were, therefore, in the main more accurate.
            Before frontier civilization had advanced far enough to receive the attention of eastern and European
                    literati, numerous writers of travel narratives, diaries, and letters sojourned in Indiana.1
            
            
               
                  * Robert R. Hubach is assistant professor of English at Bowling
                        Green State University, Bowling Green, 
                            Ohio
                        .
               
                  1 For the sake of completeness it is well to list the following minor
                        writers and the dates of their visits: Thomas Hutchins, 1778; George Imlay, 1793; C. F. Volney,
                        1804; John Melish, 1806, 1807, 1809, 1810, 1811, 1822; Jervasse Cutler, 1812; David Thomas,
                        1816; Samuel R. Brown, 1817; Morris Birkbeck, 1817; Thomas Dean, 1817; William
            
            
            The first author of much importance to touch the Indiana Territory was Thomas Ashe, adventurer,
                    novelist, and travel narrator. In 1806, he traversed the Ohio Valley region and
                    in Münchausen-like exaggeration typical of him described the falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     near 
                        Louisville
                     as an awful scene of waters pouring down in "horrid fury."2 His book is called a blundering, abusive narrative by William H. Venable, an
                    authority on early literature in the Ohio Valley.3
            
            Abraham Lincoln, although most often remembered as a great political figure, in his addresses wrote
                    excellent prose and is today considered a major American author. His name is more usually associated
                    with the state of 
                        Illinois
                    , but Indiana played an important role in the formative years of his life. He dwelt in a
                    frontier homestead in the Hoosier state from his eighth year (1817) until shortly after his
                    twenty-second birthday, and even during this period he displayed a talent for story-telling and
                        rhyming.4
            
            Significant in the history of early Indiana is the name of Baynard Rush Hall, a Philadelphian who
                    journeyed westward about 1822 and located near Gosport. His book tells of his life there and at 
                        Bloomington
                    , where he was first principal and later a professor in the seminary which developed
                    into Indiana University, and of his eventual disappointment in the West.5 One
                    authority states that it stands unrivaled as a critical study of the pioneers.6
            
            
               Darby, 1818; E. Dana, 1819; D. B. Warden, 1819; Richard Lee Mason, 1819: E. Mackenzie. 1820:
                        Thomas S. Teas. 1821: William Forster. 1821–1822; Captain Blaney,
                        1822–1823; William Faux, 1823; William Hebert, 1825; William Pelham,
                        1825–1826; Karl Bernhard (Duke of Saxe-Weimar). 1825–1826: Isaac Reed.
                        1828: CaDtain Basil Hall. 1827–1828; William' Cobbett, 1828; Karl Postel,
                        1828; Caleb Atwater, 1829; Charles F. Coffin, 1824–1833; Victor C. Duclos,
                        1825–1833; Charles Pinckney Ferguson, 1836; and John Parson. 1840. Harlow Lindley
                        (ed.), Indiana as Sea by Early Travelers, in the Indiana Historical Collections (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1916-), III (1916), 5–6.
               
                  2 See Travels in America, Performed in 1806, for the Purpose
                            of Exploring the Rivers Alleghany, Monongahela, 
                                Ohio
                            , and 
                                Mississippi
                            , and Ascertaining the Produce and Conditions of Their Banks and Vicinity
                        (Newberry, 
                            Massachusetts
                        , 1808), 238.
               
                  3 See Beginnings of Literary Culture in the Ohio
                                Valley
                   (
                     Cincinnati,
                                Ohio
                  . 1891). 16.
               
                  4 John E. Iglehart, "The Environment of Abraham Lincoln in
                        Indiana," in Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1895-), VIII (1925), 147–182.
               
                  5
                        The New Purchase, or Seven and a Half Years in the Far West (
                            New York
                        , 1843).
               
                  6 Quoted from Judge D. D. Banta in Logan Esarey, A History of
                            Indiana (2 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1915), II, 1115–1116.
            
            
            An important early British literary figure to visit Indiana was Robert Owen, the reformer, who bought
                    approximately twenty thousand acres of land from the Rappite religious sect and on the
                        Wabash River founded a socialistic community which he called 
                        New Harmony
                    . He delivered an address here on Wednesday, April 27, 1825, setting forth his
                    communistic plans. On July 17, 1825, he embarked at 
                        New York
                     for New Lanark with the intention of visiting his family and returning with them as
                    early as possible. In November of the same year, he returned to 
                        New York
                     with his son, Robert Dale Owen, and Donald Macdonald. His son and Macdonald with thirty
                    or forty people journeyed down the 
                        Ohio
                     and reached 
                        New Harmony
                     on January 24, 1826, whereas Owen himself had left the group and arrived at 
                        New Harmony
                     twelve days earlier. But since there was no effective choice of colonists and
                    differences about the form of government and religion shortly arose, the experiment was concluded in
                    1827. He visited America again, however, between 1844 and 1847.7 This venture
                    preceded many other socialistic experiments in America.
            Although almost forgotten today, Timothy Flint was one of the first writers of the early West. He
                    began his career as a Congregational minister in 
                        Massachusetts
                     but turned to teaching and farming and later to authorship and editing. He wrote four
                    novels, including Francis Berrian (1826); in this book the hero descends the
                        Ohio River and eventually takes part in the Mexican Revolution.8 His most valuable work is his picturesque autobiographical narrative, Recollections of the Last Ten Years, in which he describes the log cabins along
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     and mentions visiting 
                        Vincennes
                    .9 It is in A Condensed Geography and History of the
                        Western States, or the Mississippi Valley
               , however, that he discusses
                    Indiana most completely. In this work he comments on the 
                  
                     7
                            
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana, Gazette, October 1, December 7, 1825, and January
                            18, 1826; Robert Dale Owen, Threading My Way (
                                New York
                            , 1874), 260, 263, 267, 268, 269, 275; Richard D. Leopold, Robert
                                Dale Owen, A Biography (
                        Cambridge,
                                    Massachusetts
                     , 1940), 25, 29,
                            45, 185, 216–217. See also "The Diaries of Donald Macdonald,"
                            in the Indiana Historical Society Publications, XIV (1942), 308,
                            333–337. Macdonald gives the date of Owen's address as April 20. See
                                ibid., 292.
                  
                     8 Venable, Beginnings of Literary Culture in the
                                    Ohio Valley
                     , 348.
                  
                     9 Timothy Flint, Recollections of the Last Ten Years (
                                Boston
                            , 1826), 54–58, 84; John E. Kirkpatrick, Timothy Flint,
                                Pioneer, Missionary, Author, Editor (
                        Cleveland, Ohio
                     ,
                            1911).
               
                     topography of the Hoosier state, her rich soil, her climate,
                    minerals and fossils, antiquities, Indians, settlements, roads, canals, government, and history.
                    Particularly interesting is the fact that he saw bear, deer, and wild turkey.10
            
            Less well known than her son, Anthony Trollope, the great British novelist, is Mrs. Frances M.
                    Trollope, who, although she also wrote novels, is remembered mainly for her caustic book, Domestic Manners of the Americans, which made many enemies for her in the United
                    States. Since her husband had done poorly in business, in 1828 she and he journeyed from England via 
                        New Orleans
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                     to retrieve their fortunes by running a fancy-goods shop. Her attitude towards the
                    scenery her steamboat passed as it wound up the Ohio River can best be shown by
                    a quotation from her book: "… the 
                        Ohio
                     is bright and clear; its banks are continually varied, as it flows through what is
                    called a rolling country, which seems to mean a district that cannot show a dozen paces of level
                    ground at a time. The primaeval forest still occupies a considerable portion of the ground, and
                    hangs in solemn grandeur from the cliffs; but it is broken by frequent settlements, where we were
                    cheered by the sight of herds and flocks. … Often a mountain torrent comes pouring its
                    silver tribute to the stream, and were there occasionally a ruined abbey, or feudal castle, to mix
                    the romance of real life with that of nature, the 
                        Ohio
                     would be perfect."11 Somewhat later she attended a revival
                    meeting in the Indiana backwoods. In her own words: "The prospect of passing a night in the
                    back woods of Indiana was by no means agreeable, but I screwed my courage to the proper pitch, and
                    set forth." What she saw there were campfires and numerous tents in which people prayed,
                    called aloud to Christ, and sobbed. She wrote that at midnight public worship began and that the
                    preachers incited the people to squirm on the ground as if in convulsions but added that a very
                    satisfactory collection was taken.12 Her business venture in 
                        Cincinnati
                     was a failure, and, greatly disillusioned, she left the country after a
                    three-years' residence.
            
               
                  10 This two-volume work was published at 
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
                  , in 1828, see II, 137–172.
               
                  11
                        Domestic Manners of the Americans (2 vols., 
                            London
                        , 1832), I, 44–45.
               
                  12
                  ibid., 233–246.
            
            
            The first great literary figure to see Indiana was Washington Irving, who in 1832 took a steamboat
                    down the 
                        Ohio
                     for a tour of the western prairies.13 He left 
                        Cincinnati
                     on September 3 and reached 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, on September 4. In his journals he described the town as a "neat
                    little place built of brick." Later he passed clearings along the banks of the river and
                    noticed a solitary log hut among the forests. By September 8, he had come to the confluence of the 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    , and at that time he contrasted the two rivers: "
                        Wabash
                     enters peacefully into the peaceful river—water clear, greenish-blue—
                        Ohio
                     yellow. Men on sand-bar with a seine sack."14 This trip
                    undoubtedly engendered an interest in the West which resulted in such books as Astoria and The Adventures of Captain Bonneville. Accompanying Irving at the
                    time was Charles Joseph Latrobe, the English author and traveler.15
            
            A writer who visited the well-known Door Prairie was Charles Fenno Hoffman, the 
                        New York
                     editor, who took a trip West in 1833–1834 to improve his health. During
                    December, 1833, he traveled by stage from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to 
                        Cleveland
                    , by boat to 
                        Detroit
                    , and by horseback and four-horse wagon through Indiana to 
                        Chicago
                    . He thought the undulating land around 
                        La Porte
                     much like the groundswell of the sea, but he was depressed by its monotony and the
                    dreary sky. He described 
                        La Porte
                     in a letter dated December 29.
            "It was afternoon when we reached the little settlement of Laporte, which is situated on a
                    pretty lake, in a prairie of the same name, the skirts of which are beautifully timbered."
                    His comment on the word Hoosier is also interesting. "The term
                    ‘IIooshier,’ like that of Yankee, or Buckeye, first applied contemptuously,
                    has now become a soubriquet that bears nothing invidious with it to the ear of an
                    Indianaian." He noted that northern Indiana was still sparsely settled, but that it would
                    probably soon support a dense population. He continued by describing the poor 
                  
                     13 For a detailed account of this trip see Washington Irving, A Tour of the Prairies (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1835), and Henry L. Ellsworth, Washington Irving on the 
                                    Prairie
                                ; or a Narrative of a Tour of the Southwest in the Year 1832 (
                                New York
                            , 1937).
                  
                     14 William P. Trent and George S. Hellman (eds.), The
                                Journals of Washington Irving (3 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1919), III, 101, 104.
                  
                     15 Charles J. Latrobe, The Rambler in North America,
                            (2 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1835), I, 99, 111.
               
                     roads, pine barrens, and a dangerous morass he crossed en route
                    to Lake Michigan.16
            
            Later than Mrs. Trollope, another British authoress, Harriet Martineau, visited America. Since she
                    was eager to experience pioneer life, she toured Door Prairie en route to 
                        Chicago
                     early in the summer of 1836. She and her party traveled by carriage from 
                        Michigan
                     to 
                        La Porte
                    . Because it was raining at the time, they encountered bad roads and their coach stuck
                    in the mud near 
                        Michigan City
                    . They, therefore, remained with a hospitable farmer and family that night; Miss
                    Martineau noted that his estate consisted of eight hundred acres and had cost him $1.25
                    per acre. His house was made of logs and contained three rooms.
            The next day her party jolted onward across the prairie. A washout forced them and some obliging
                    settlers to build a bridge so their coach could cross a rampant stream. Miss Martineau described 
                        Michigan City
                     as being only three years old, cut out OP the forest, and interspersed with little
                    swamps. Here for the first time she saw Lake Michigan, and she wrote about it enthusiastically.
                    After an evening meal of pork, bread, potatoes, preserves, and tea, the party took a walk. She
                    noticed the wild flowers and insects on the way and gave a poetic description of the sunset and the
                    return. "We walked briskly home, beside the skiey sea, with the half-grown moon above us,
                    riding high."
            The journey continued the following day, and another bridge had to be built. The party spent that
                    night not in bedrooms but in the loft of a house—the only house in 
                        America
                    where Miss Martineau received bad treatment. Although her comments on the United States
                    were often unfavorable, she appreciated the rural beauty of Indiana and, being interested in
                    economics and sociology, adversely criticized the enactors of the English Corn Laws for taxing food
                    when grain grew in such abundance in western Arnerica.17
            
            Traveling west more often than any other major nineteenth-century author was Ralph Waldo Emerson. As
                    early as the 1840's, he was making addresses west of the Alleghenies, and for twenty
                    years he withstood the hardships of 
                  
                     16 A Winter in the West (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1835), I, 224–231.
                  
                     17
                            Society in America (2 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1837), I, 243–258, 307.
               
                     winter, food, and inadequate travel facilities to spread his
                    transcendental philosophy to the outposts of the prairies. Many of the details of his contacts with
                    Indiana are unknown, but by June, 1850, he had touched the southern border of the state en route to 
                        St. Louis
                     down the Ohio River from 
                        Cincinnati
                    .18 On June 5, he and a group of literary acquaintances reached 
                        Evansville
                     and took passage up the Green River in 
                        Kentucky
                    .19 He crossed northwestern Indiana a few weeks later when
                    journeying from 
                        Chicago
                     to 
                        Michigan
                    .20
            
            Emerson traversed the Hoosier state in January, 1857, en route from 
                        Chicago
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , where he lectured. In 1859, he outlined a proposed western tour which included 
                        Terre Haute
                     among a list of eighteen different towns and cities in Indiana, 
                  Illinois, Michigan
               , and 
                        Wisconsin
                    , but later he evidently dropped this community from his itinerary.21
            
            Again in Indiana, this time in February, 1860, at 
                        Lafayette
                    , where he probably lectured, he had to charter a special train to 
                        Michigan City
                     in time to reach 
                        Chicago
                     for another address.22 On January 23, 1863, he wrote to Elbridge G.
                    Dudley of 
                        Indianapolis
                     to arrange for him to speak there,23 but further information about
                    this trip is lacking. He lectured at 
                        La Porte
                     on "Social Aims in America" on a later visit in 1866, and the 
                        La Porte
                    
                    Herald of January 20 of that year judged his style not oratorical but graceful and
                        fluent.24 This opinion was the prevailing one at the time. He read the same
                    talk in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on February 13, according to the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Journal of the same date.25 Although he continued
                    visiting the Midwest until as late as 1871, he aged perceptibly during these years and found
                    lecturing more difficult than when he was younger. The attendance at the 
                  
                     18 E. W. Emerson and Waldo E. Forbes (eds.), Journals of
                                Ralph Waldo Emerson (10 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1912), VIII, 114.
                  
                     19 Ralph L. Rusk (ed.), The Letters of Ralph Waldo
                                Emerson (6 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1939), IV, 208; Louise Hastings (ed.), Journal at the West by Ralph Waldo
                            Emerson (Ph. D. dissertation, Indiana University, Rloomington, Indiana, 1942).
                  
                     20 Emerson and Forbes, Journals of Ralph Waldo
                            Emerson, VIII, 114.
                  
                     21 Rusk, The Letters of Ralph Waldo Emerson, V, 58,
                            182n.
                  
                     22
                     ibid., 195–196.
                  
                     23
                     ibid., 308.
                  
                     24
                            ibid., 449.
                  
                     25
                            ibid., 452.
               
                     lyceums was often discouraging, but as time passed he made
                    numerous friends and saw many of the early crudities of the frontier gradually disappear. Though
                    polished and learned, he understood that much of the greatness of the West lay in its masculine
                    strength and self-reliance.
            More and more authors visited Indiana as the century progressed. Bayard Taylor passed through the
                    state many times on his lecture tours. Although he was primarily a poet, he took to the lyceum
                    platform because of need for money. During his 1854–1855 lecture season, he made one
                    hundred twenty-eight separate appearances, asking fifty dollars for each of them. He spoke at 
                        New Albany
                    , Indiana, in April, 1854. The subject matter of his talks varied. He discussed culture
                    and the differences between Europeans and Americans, warned against excessive emotion in literature,
                    and adversely criticized the South, which he believed would eventually have to be broken by
                        force.26
            
            Anthony Trollope, the son of Mrs. Trollope and author of the famous "Barsetshire
                    Chronicles," crossed Indiana during the fall of 1861. Although this journey was taken at
                    night and he saw nothing of the countryside, his description of the sleeping cars of that era is
                    historically interesting. "I found that these cars were universally mentioned with great
                    horror and disgust by Americans of the upper class. They always declared that they would not travel
                    in them on any account. Noise and dirt were the two objections!"27
                    The American Senator is a novel indebted to his United States tours.
            Like Emerson and Bayard Taylor, Bret Harte lectured widely. His success as a short-story writer drew
                    large audiences to hear him speak about his 
                        California
                     experiences, and for a time he was lionized by the American public. In Indiana he
                    delivered addresses at 
                        South Bend
                     in the fall of 1873 and at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     late in January of 1875. But he wrote to his wife that the trips tired him and that he
                    was eager to return home.28
            
            Oscar Wilde, the apostle of aestheticism, invaded Indiana during his American tour in 1882. He spoke
                    in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    
                    
                  
                     26 See Richmond C. Beatty, Bayard Taylor, Laureate of the
                                Gilded Age (
                        Norman, Oklahoma
                     , 1936), 147–148, passim.
                  
                     27
                     North America (
                                New York
                            , 1862), 157.
                  
                     28 See Geoffrey Bret Harte (ed.), The Letters of Bret
                                Harte (
                                Boston
                            , 1926), 31, 48.
               
                     in February of that year, but the welcome he received was hardly
                    favorable. A group of playful youths garbed themselves in "aesthetic" costume and
                    wore lilies and sunflowers for the occasion; they created no commotion, however. The 
                        Fort Wayne
                    
                    News called the talk a "languid, monotonous stream of mechanically
                    arranged words … scholarly but pointless; as instructive as a tax list to a pauper, and
                    scarcely as interesting." And his figure was judged "unprepossessing."
            From 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Wilde circled around to 
                  Detroit,
                            Cleveland, Cincinnati, Louisville
               , and 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Morris Ross, on the staff of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News, said that Wilde gained attention mainly by adopting knee breeches and a
                    lily. The latter's lecture at the last-named city was by no means successful. One
                    reporter caught him using the word "handicrawftsmen" seventeen times and noted his
                    pronunciation of "teel-e-phone," "eye-solate," and
                    "vawse." The same newsman disliked Wilde's legs, which he said had no
                    more symmetry than the same length of garden hose. Wilde was invited to the governor's
                    party that evening and on the way he was asked why he came to America. "For recreation and
                    pleasure," he answered with his typical wit, "but I have not, as yet, found any
                    Americans. There are English, French, Danes, and Spaniards in 
                        New York
                    ; but I have yet to see an American." This was a common British criticism of
                    this country during the nineteenth century. At dinner with the governor and his family, Wilde ate
                    greedily. The Saturday Review reported that when he was introduced to ice cream he
                    spooned it up "with the languor of a debilitated duck."29
                    Indiana of the 1880's was truly unsympathetic to Wilde and the aesthetic movement.
            Another Englishman who gained a rather uncordial reception from the Midwest was Matthew Arnold. His
                    dignified, scholarly attitude was not generally appreciated, nor did he himself completely
                    understand the American spirit. He passed through Indiana on the way to 
                        Milwaukee
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     on January 20, 1884, but did not lecture in 
                        Indianapolis
                     until his return trip during the first half of February. Here, unlike his treatment in
                    most cities, he was 
                  
                     29 See Lloyd Lewis and Henry J. Smith, Oscar Wilde
                                Discovers America, 1882 (
                                New York
                            , 1936), 181, 196–198. J. Anton Scherrer's manuscript on
                            Oscar Wilde's Visit, and 
                                Indianapolis
                             newspapers were also consulted.
               
                     favorably received—"had a capital audience,
                    and found some zealous disciples who interested me," he wrote to his daughter on February
                    12. In the same letter he described the flooded southern Indiana countryside, which he traversed on
                    his journey to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and the Ohio River the following day.30
                    Perhaps the fact that 
                        Indianapolis
                     thought highly of Arnold indicates something about the cultural tone of that community.
                    If, as he once remarked, Denver was unripe for him, perhaps 
                        Indianapolis
                     was not, since its inhabitants from almost the beginning have been more interested in
                    literature and other forms of culture than have neighboring cities.
            The last important nineteenth-century writer to describe Indiana was Robert Louis Stevenson, who
                    passed through the state in an immigrant coach in June, 1888, en route to 
                        San Francisco
                    . His picture of the prairie region is in part complimentary. "The country was
                    flat like Holiand, but far from being dull. All through 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , and 
                        Iowa
                     … it was rich and various, and breathed an elegance peculiar to itself. The
                    tall con pleased the eye; the trees were graceful in themselves, and framed the plain into long,
                    aerial vistas; and the clean, bright, gardened townships spoke of country fare and pleasant summer
                    evenings on the stoop." But he soon discovered that the weather was disagreeable and that
                    tobacco and ague-remedy advertisments on the fences disfigured the landscape.31
                    He chose to remain not in the Midwest but in the Pacific, and from there he never returned.
            In addition to these major visitations, a host of trips through or along the borders of Indiana were
                    made by other writers. James Hall, early Midwestern novelist and editor, descended the
                        Ohio River in April, 1820, en route to a residence in 
                        Illinois
                     and crossed the Hoosier state when he returned to 
                        Cincinnati
                     in January, 1833.32 William Cullen Bryant touched southern Indiana
                    twice during his journey to and from 
                        Illinois
                     via the 
                        Ohio
                     in 1832 and traversed the 
                  
                     30 George W. E. Russell (ed.), Letters of Matthew
                            Arnold (2 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1895), II, 295, 303–304.
                  
                     31
                            Across the Plains (
                                New York
                            , 1892), 16–17.
                  
                     32 James Hall, Letters from the West (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1828), 48–49; 78; 86–87; Notes on the
                                Western States (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1838), 60, 62–63; John T. Flanagan, James Hall,
                                Literary Pioneer of the Ohio Valley
                      (
                                Minneapolis
                            , 1941), 22–26, 61.
               
                     state again in 1841, 1845, and probably in 1846.33 Captain Frederick Marryat, British novelist, saw Indiana from the 
                        Ohio
                     when in the summer of 1838 he boarded a steamboat from 
                        St. Louis
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                    .34 Charles Dickens saw it from the same river in April, 1542,35 as did Francis Parkman in April, 1846.36 Walt Whitman
                    traveled down the 
                        Ohio
                     by steamboat in February, 1848, and passed through Indiana in September, 1879, and
                    again in January, 1880. After the latter trip he spoke very favorably of the state, saying that of
                    the West not the half had been told.37 Thackeray touched the southern Indiana
                    border in March, 1856, during his American lecture tour.38 Amos Bronson Alcott, 
                        New England
                     transcendentalist and friend of Emerson, traversed the Hoosier state for the first time
                    in 1858 but was unfavorably impressed. He spoke at 
                        Greencastle
                     during his later lecture tours, and as he became better acquainted with the Midwest his
                    attitude changed.39 Herman Melville saw: he state during a speaking trip to 
                        Wisconsin
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     in 1859.40 Samuel L. Clemens ("Mark Twain")
                    passed through Indiana on numerous trips to and from the West,41 and James R.
                    Lowell crossed it en route to lecture in 
                        Chicago
                     in February, 1887.42 Although Rudyard Kipling did not mention
                    Indiana in "From Sea to Sea," he doubtlessly passed through it on his way 
                  
                     33 Parke Godwin, A Biography of William Cullen
                            Bryant (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1883), I, 283.
                  
                     34
                            A Diary in America (3 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1839), II, 143.
                  
                     35 J. F. Snyder, "Charles Dickens in 
                                Illinois
                            ," Journal of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society (
                        Springfield, Illinois
                     ,
                            1908-), III, No. 3 (1910), 7–22; William G. Wilkins, Charles Dickens
                                in America (
                                London
                            , 1911), 217–222, 226.
                  
                     36 Mason Wade, Francis Parkman, Heroic Historian (
                                New York
                            , 1942), 329.
                  
                     37 See: Robert R. Hubach, Walt Whitman and the West (Ph.D.
                            dissertation, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1943), 83–85, 161; Camden, 
                                New Jersey
                            , Post, January 7, 1880.
                  
                     38 James G. Wilson, Thackeray in the United States
                            (2 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1904), I, 307.
                  
                     39 Odell Shepard, Pedlar's Progress, the Life
                                of Bronson Alcott (
                                Boston
                            , 1938), 487.
                  
                     40 Merrell Davis, "Melville's Midwestern Lecture
                            Tour, 1859," Philological Quarterly (
                        Iowa City, Iowa
                     , 1922-), XX (1941), 46–57.
                  
                     41 See Albert R. Paine, Mark Twain, A Biography. The
                                Personal and Literary Life of Samuel Langhorne Clemens (3 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1912), II, passim.
                  
                     42 See Horace E. Scudder, James Russell Lowell, A
                                Biography (2 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1901), II, 351–352.
               
                     from 
                        San Francisco
                     to 
                        New York
                     in 1889. His comments on the American people, however, were generally unfavorable.43
            
            The preceding long array of literary visitors to Indiana during the nineteenth century shows that
                    even during frontier days the state was not without cultural activities. Undoubtedly, the presence
                    of these celebrated figures helped encourage Hoosier interest in literature and stimulated a certain
                    amount of native talent. Although several writers were rather dismayed by the crudities of the
                    wilderness, if they could visit it now, they would see what forward strides it has taken; for,
                    indeed, it has grown from a region where well-known writers have visited to a state where almost
                    equally important ones have been born, live, and work.44
            
            
               
                  43
                        The Writings in Prose and Verse of Rudyard Kipling (28 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1897–1920), XVI (1900), 18–264.
               
                  44 Esarey, A History of Indiana, II,
                        1114–1145; Indiana, A Guide to the Hoosier State (
                            New York
                        , 1941), 142–151.
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            The Attempted Potawatomi Emigration of 1839
            Edited by Dwight L. Smith*
            
            Wherever the Indian and the white man came into contact with each other, as American settlements
                    marched progressively westward, many problems of conflict arose. The inroads of the pioneers into
                    Indian lands were by no means appreciated and often led to trouble. There was ample precedent for
                    Indian suspicion of the Americans. Past experience with the Spanish, French, and English beggared
                    comprehension of the ways of the white man and of his civilization.
            The incongruity, the variance, and the incompatibility of the ways of the two groups led to much
                    misapprehension and misunderstanding. The white man was convinced of the inevitability of his
                    progress westward. The Indian was not thusly convinced but was determined to hinder, to terminate,
                    and, if possible, to turn back these encroachments on his lands.
            The development of the policy of the United States has been an evolutionary one that has looked upon
                    the Indian in turn as a conquered foe, a subject, and a ward. What to do about the indigenous Indian
                    living on and having title to the lands which he coveted, was the immediate problem facing the
                    frontiersman and his government. The reciprocal depredations of the one against the other led many a
                    pioneer to conclude that "the only good Indian is a dead Indian." Others were more
                    humanitarian and directed their efforts to the assimilation of the Indians believing it to be merely
                    a matter of time until they would satisfactorily have acquired the "arts of
                    civilization."
            While the government was party to both extirpation and humanitarianism, its general policy was one of
                    extinguishing Indian titles to lands by negotiated treaties. These treaties made no provisions for
                    new homes for the displaced Indians, and, except for reservations made within the ceded lands by
                    some of the treaties, they were pushed westward treaty by treaty. This policy was gradually changed
                    and 
                  
                     * Dwight L. Smith is an instructor in history at Ohio State
                            University, 
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     .
               
                     replaced by the removal policy. Instead of a cession for a
                    stipulated annuity and other trifles, the removal policy provided for an exchange of lands. A treaty
                    would grant to a tribe a tract of government land west of the Mississippi River
                    and the means of transportation to that tract in exchange for the lands of that tribe that were east
                    of the Mississippi River.
            As early as February, 1803, Thomas Jefferson, in discussing Indian affairs with William Henry
                    Harrison, indicated that he would look with favor upon a removal policy to territory beyond the
                        Mississippi River. This was before the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase had been made. This, as he saw it, was the only alternative the Indians would
                    have to incorporation "with us as citizens of the US.," and it should be
                    accomplished peacefully. "Should any tribe be fool-hardy enough to take up the hatchet a[t]
                    any time," he added somewhat parenthetically as a corollary to the removal policy,
                    "the siezing [sic] the whole country of that tribe & driving
                    them across the Missisipi, as the only condition of peace, would be an example to others, and a
                    furtherance of our final consolidation."1
            
            When Jefferson received news of the cession of 
                        Louisiana
                     Territory to the United States in 1803, he drew up a proposed amendment to the
                        Constitution.2 This action is better understood in the light of a statement
                    made to Albert Gallatin a few months earlier. "I think it will be safer," he
                    wrote, "not to permit the enlargement of the Union but by amendment of the
                        Constitution."3 The greater part of 
                  
                     1 Jefferson to Harrison, Washington, February 27, 1803, in Clarence E.
                            Carter (comp. and ed.), The Territorial Papers of the United States
                            (Washington, 1934-), The Territory of Indiana, 1800–1810, VII
                            (1939), 88–92.
                  
                            
                        2 Drafts of an Amendment to the Constitution, [July, 1803], in Paul
                                L. Ford (ed.), The Writings of Thomas Jefferson (10 vols., 
                                    New York
                                , 1892–1899), VIII (1897), 241–249.
                            See also Annie H. Abel, "The History of Events Resulting in Indian Consolidation
                                West of the Mississipi," Annual Report of the American Historical
                                    Association for the Year 1906 (2 vols., Washington, 1908), I,
                                233–450, passim. Abel apparently did not use the Jefferson
                                letter of February 27, 1803, because she credits this proposed amendment as the first
                                direct and official advocacy of the removal policy. "Before the issue of the
                                constitutional supplement in the summer of 1803, there is positively no trace of a plan
                                for … a removal policy with the Indians" (p. 243, note a).
                        
                  
                     3 Jefferson to Gallatin, January, 1803, in Henry Adams (ed.), The Writings of Albert Gallatin (3 vols., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1879), I, 114–116.
               
                     this proposed amendment, however, was devoted to the Indians and
                    included provision for removal of Indians east of the Mississippi River to 
                        Louisiana
                     north of thirty-one degrees north latitude.4 In a postscript to a
                    letter to the Secretary of State, Jefferson modified the proposed amendment. No new states should be
                    established or grants of land made, other than to Indians, of that part of 
                        Louisiana
                     "lying north of the latitude of the mouth of Oreansa [
                        Arkansas
                    ] river." Grants could be made to the Indians in exchange for
                    "equivalent portions" occupied by them east of the Mississippi
                        River.5
            
            The President was enabled, by the act which created 
                        Louisiana
                     Territory, to arrange with any Indian tribes for an exchange of their lands for
                    property of the United States on the west side of the Mississippi River,
                    "in case the said tribes shall remove and settle thereon." A sum of several
                    thousand dollars was appropriated to enable the President to carry out the removal policy as therein
                    provided for.6
            
            Generally speaking little was accomplished in the next decade and a half to put the removal policy
                    into effect. The practice of extinguishment of Indian ownership to land was carried on by the
                    negotiation of treaties with tribes both individually and collectively. Not until Andrew Jackson
                    became President was the removal plan actively used. By an act of May 28, 1830, the President could
                    specify districts west of the Mississippi River for tribes that might choose to
                    remove there in exchange for the lands to which they held title. The government would aid and assist
                    these tribes to remove to, and to settle in, districts on the other side of the
                        Mississippi River.7 While Jackson was chiefly
                    interested in removal of the southern Indians, some attention was given to those tribes north of the
                        Ohio River. In 1832, a Congressional appropriation was made for the express
                        
                  
                     4 Drafts of an Amendment to the Constitution, [July, 1803], in Ford,
                                Writings of Jefferson, VIII, 241–249.
                  
                     5 Jefferson to James Madison, 
                                Monticello
                            , August 25, 1803, in Albert E. Bergh (ed.), The Writings of Thomas
                                Jefferson … (20 vols., Washington, 1905–1907), X (1907),
                            412–415.
                  
                     6 "An Act Erecting 
                                Louisiana
                             into Two Territories, and Providing for the Temporary Government
                            Thereof," March 26, 1804, in United States Statutes at Large, II,
                            283–289.
                  
                     7 "An Act to Provide for an Exchange of Lands with the
                            Indians Residing in Any of the States or Territories, and for Their Removal West of the
                            River 
                                Mississippi
                            ," May 28, 1830, in ibid., IV,
                        411–413.
               
                     purpose of holding treaties to extinguish Indian titles in
                    Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , and the Territory of 
                        Michigan
                    .8
            
            By treaties of 1832, 1834, and 1836, the Potawatomi of Indiana ceded their lands within the state. By
                    the 1836 treaties they agreed, within a period of two years, to yield possession and remove, at
                    government expense, west of the Mississippi River. In 1838, at the end of the
                    two-year period, they were quite reluctant to leave, and after the white squatters threatened a
                    showdown they were forcibly gathered together for removal.9 The story of the
                    1838 Potawatomi emigration is told by the official journal of its conductor and bits of
                    correspondence preserved in The William Polke Collection. The letters of Father Benjamin M. Petit,
                    who accompanied the emigration as a missionary, give a vivid description of the removal from Indiana
                    in 1838.10
            
            Though it would have been much desired, the 1838 emigration did not remove all the Potawatomi still
                    remaining in Indiana. Some of the sick, who had remained behind, later formed a party of their own
                    under Jacob Hull and joined the main body en route.11 Stragglers and many others
                    who became sick as the emigration progressed, lagged behind and returned to Indiana to rejoin the
                    remnants there.12
            
            Another emigration was contemplated for the following year whereby the Potawatomi still remaining in
                    Indiana 
                  
                     8 "An Act to Enable the President to Extinguish Indian Title
                            within the State of Indiana, 
                                Illinois
                            , and Territory of 
                                Michigan
                            ," July 9, 1832, in ibid., IV, 564.
                  
                     9 The background to the 1838 Potawatomi emigration is given in more
                            complete detail in Dwight L. Smith (ed.), "A Continuation of the Journal of an
                            Emigrating Party of Potawatomi Indians, 1838, and Ten William Polke Manuscripts,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1905-), XLIV (1948), 393–408.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid. "Journal of an Emigrating Party of Pottawattomie Indians,
                            1838," Indiana Magazine of History, XXI (1925),
                            315–336. Irving McKee (ed.), "The Trail of Death, Letters of Benjamin
                            Marie Petit," Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1895-), XIV (1944), 3–141.
                  
                     11 Entry for October 30, 1838, "Journal of an Emirating Party
                            of Pottawattomie Indians, 1838," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            XXI, 333. "Journal of an Emigration of a detachment of Indians belonging to the
                            Indian Emigration under the Charge of Jacob Hull," September 27, to October 30,
                            1838, manuscript in The William Polke Collection in possession of Mrs. Fanny Scott Rumely, 
                                La Porte
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     12 "Journal of an Emigrating Party of Pottawattomie Indians,
                            1838," Indiana Magazine of History, XXI, 315–336, passim. Entries for November 27 and 28, 1838, in Smith, "A
                            Continuation of the Journal of an Emigrating Party of Potawatomi Indians, 1838, and Ten
                            William Polke Manuscripts," ibid., XLIV, 400.
               
                     would be removed to join the others west of the
                        Mississippi River. Extensive plans were made and the Indians were prepared.
                    Plans and efforts came to nought, however, as the panic of 1837 spread westward and began to affect
                    the banks of Indiana in the fall of 1839 so that funds were no longer available to carry out the
                    projected removal. It was not until the following summer that another expedition was formed.13 A method similar to that employed by General John Tipton in the 1838
                    emigration was used to corral the Potawatomi of southern 
                        Michigan
                     and northern Indiana before the 1840 emigration could get under way.14 The movement got under way late in September and included quite a number of 
                        Ottawa
                     Indians as well.15
            
            The attempted Potawatomi emigration of 1839 has heretofore been unchronicled. Its narrative is now
                    brought to light through a journal and a series of letters by its principals that are here
                    reproduced from The William Polke Collection by the kind permission of Mrs. Fanny Scott Rumely of 
                        La Porte
                    , Indiana. They consist of letters chiefly between William Polke16
                    and Samuel Milroy17 and the "Journal of 
                  
                     13
                            
                                Logansport
                            , Indiana, Telegraph, August 15, 1840.
                  
                     14
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Journal, November 14, 1840. Niles' National Register (76 vols., 
                        Baltimore, Washington
                     , and 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1811–1849), LIX, 148 (November 7, 1840). This publication was
                            variously known as The Weekly Register, 1811–1814; Niles' Weekly Register, 1814–1837; Niles' National Register, 1837–1849.
                  
                     15
                     Niles' National Register., LIX, 17
                            (September 12, 1840), 50 (September 26, 1840), and 85 (October 10, 1840).
                  
                     16 Polke had been appointed conductor for the projected 1839
                            emigration. For a biographical sketch of Polke see Smith, "A Continuation of the
                            Journal of an Emigrating Party of Potawatomi Indians, 1838, and Ten William Polke
                            Manuscripts," Indiana Magazine of History, XLIV, 306, note 10.
                            For additional facts on Polke, see Polke to the Editor, Chippewa, Indiana, February 3, 1840,
                            in 
                                Washington
                            , National Intelligencer, February 27, 1840; Geneal Prather,
                            "The Construction of the 
                                Michigan
                             Road, 1830–1840," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XL (1944), 243–279, passim.
                  
                     17 Milroy, one of the prominent pioneers of early Indiana, was born in
                            1780, in Mifflin County, Pennsylvania, and was a carpenter and joiner by trade. In 1806, he
                            crossed the Allegheny Mountains and descended the Ohio
                            River, settling in Nelson County, 
                                Kentucky
                            . In 1814, Milroy moved his family to 
                                Washington County
                            , Indiana, near 
                                Salem
                            , and soon became active in territorial affairs. He represented the county in
                            the 1816 constitutional convention and in eight sessions of the legislature. He advanced to
                            the rank of brigadier general in the state militia, and was appointed register of the 
                                Crawfordsville
                             land office in 1820. Beginning in 1836, he represented 
                                Carroll County
                             in three sessions of the legislature. Milroy also served as subagent for the
                            Miami Indians, 1839–1841, and in 1845, until his death in the same year. James H.
                            Stewart, Recollections of the Early Settlement of 
                                    Carroll County
                                , Indiana (
                        Cincinnati,
                                    Ohio
                     , 1872), 170–186,
                                passim.
               
                     procedings in Collecting Indians for Emigratio[n],"
                    September 25 to October 25, 1839, kept by the former. Accuracy has been stressed in the reproduction
                    of these manuscripts even though the grammar and spelling would at times lend themselves to revision
                    and correction. A white line drawn through words (of the Agt) indicates that those words have been
                    crossed out in the original manuscript. All corrections or additions to the original documents have
                    been indicated in brackets.
            Samuel Milroy to Willian Polke [ALS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Indian Agency 
                                    Logansport
                                 
                              
                           
                                    30th May 1839
                                
                        Dr Sir
                        This moment yours of the 29 inst has been received—In reply I have to
                                    state that as yet I am not furnished with any instructions relating to the removeal
                                    of the Potowatamis—but I am to be furnished with instructions reletive to
                                    that matter so soon as I am enabled to say that a portion of those Indians are
                                    willing to go, snd to designate the time &c. I would be pleased to be
                                    posessed with all the information you have on the Subject—You are aware
                                    that it is the object of the Government to remove the whole of the Indians on this
                                    side of the 
                                        Mississippi
                                     to the west of that River—and that the sooner that object
                                    can be affected the bettre [sic] for the Indians—I
                                    consider it, a grate and benevolent object and worthy of the exertions of the wisest
                                    and best of our citizens—and in as much as it, (so far as relates to our
                                    Indians), is to be placed under my superintendence and I will glady avail myself of
                                    the aid you tender me
                        Allow me to say that so soon as I am able to say to the department, that a party
                                    worth going with, is willing to go, that the authority, and instructions will be
                                    given to take them to their new homes—and they can [illegible] git
                                    n[e]ither them annuities nor supp[l]ies of any discription in this State, here they
                                    have no homes, and it is necessary for their own good, that they remove—I
                                    have mad no engagements nor given any promise to any one relative to aiding in
                                    removing the Indians it is a matter that requirs deliberation—the
                                    applications are numerous no engagements will be made untill we can settle the time
                                    for Action —I have authorised no one to talk to the Indians on the
                                    subject of emigration and wish to see them myself—and so soon as they
                                    decide to go, I calculate to visit them at their residences or at such place as they
                                    may convene—
                        Any information you can communicate will be thankfully received—
                        
                                    Your old friend Sr
                                    Saml, Milroy
                                
                         William Polk Esqr P.S. At what time would it be the most adviseable to
                                    start with an emigrating party My own opinion suggested not later than the last of
                                    August as a proper time— 
                                     [Addressed] William Polk Esqr Chippewa (P.
                                    Mast.) 
                                        Fulton County
                                     Inda [Postmarked] LOGAN'SPORT Ia. Jun 1 [1839]
                                    Free [Endorsed] S Milroy 
                     
                  
               
                
            William Polke to Samuel Milroy [C]18
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Chippewa
                           
                                    June 3rd 1839
                                
                        D sir
                        Your friendly letter of 31 ult was duly received with you I fully believe that the
                                    Speedy Removal of the Indians to their New homes west of the Missippi [sic] is a great and Benev[ol]ant undertaking worthy the exertions of the
                                    wise and good of the Nation and the only thing that can save the Remnant of that
                                    unhappy people it was this view of the subject that first made me interested in the
                                    Removal of the Indians and caused me to turn my attention to the subject, in my
                                    Intercourse with the Indians the last few years from the Numerous Inquiries of the
                                    Indians to me on the subject of the Removal I have but little Doubts but the most of
                                    them can be Induced to consent to Remove the present season Indeed they are making
                                    preparations for it Wewissah a Chief who Removed last year with the party and who
                                    has returned this Spring to collect some Horses and other property is Busily engaged
                                    in persuading his friends to go he is now gone to see his friend in 
                                        Michigan
                                     he may be useful as he was in the last Emigration many others have
                                    Inquired of me at what time the Indians would start west I have always Informed them
                                    I could not tell but whenever they were Ready to go the their great father would
                                    send them. I most heartily Concur in your views of Visiting and talking to them
                                    yourself I know something of how you will be Harrassed with applicants for places
                                    each one pressing his own Claims as to the Importance of his being employed as
                                    tending to the success of the Emigration particularly Interpretters on this subject
                                    by Experience I have some Knowledge of the Qualifications and usefulness of some
                                    which at the proper time I will Inform you of as at present it will be proper to
                                    Maintain the position you [have] taken of making no engagements untill Near the time
                                    of action we were embarrassed last year with partial promises that were almost of
                                    Necessity made to overcome their objections which I advised at the time should in
                                    future be avoided and which I am Happy to find are your Correct views on the subject
                                    An Emigrating party is so totally Different from any thing that I was ever engaged
                                    in that many little Regulations of police may be Introduced which will lessen both
                                    the expense and trouble and be of much advantage in Conducting the party as to the
                                    most proper time to start I would suggest between the middle and 25 of August as by
                                    then starting by the time you enter the grand prairies the flies are pretty well
                                    over and to start later there is Danger of the winter overtaking you before your
                                    Return I thank you for your friendly 
                              
                                 18 From a typescript copy in the Department of Special
                                            Collections, Indiana University Library, 
                                                Bloomington
                                            , Indiana. The original manuscript has not been found.
                           
                                     letter as it will Enable me to give the proper
                                    answers to such Enquiries the Indians may make so that I can Render some service in
                                    that way which will afford me pleasure to Render you all the aid in my power I
                                    Remain your old friend
                        
                                    Wm. Polke
                                
                        Ps. I shall hope to see you at 
                                        Logansport
                                     about the 20 Inst as I expect to be in about that time when we can
                                    fully talk of the Business [Endorsed] Samuel Milroy
                     
                  
               
                
            William M. Dunham to William Polke [ALS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Plymouth
                                 
                              
                           
                                    June 3 1839
                                
                        My Dear Sir
                        I have just written to Gen Milroy to obtain a situation under him as assistant in
                                    Removing the Indians West, I also understand that you are an applicant for the same
                                    situation and let me assure you there is no man I am acquainted with that I would go
                                    in Stronger for in almost any case than I would for you except myself and further I
                                    do not pretend to claim the talent for the discharge of that business that you
                                    possess, for many reasons, and so have I represented you to Genr. Milroy as my
                                    friend & well wisher, and have requested the Genr. to show you my letter,
                                    not fearing what you "would say in relation
                                        to me" Now there is one subject that I wish to mention and one
                                    favor I wish to ask, that is that I am poor and have great need at this time of some
                                    assistance, You are well off my Old Friend and can very well live without it, I
                                    really wish you to think of these things, Knowing that you always have as near as
                                    you could done to others as you woud have them to do to you, and I am convinced from
                                    what I have seen that such will be your course towards me I have nothing further to
                                    say at this time, only that you will do justice to your own feelings and the result
                                    of such course I am sure will not be injurious to my feelings
                        
                                    Yours with Respect
                                    Wm M. Dunham
                                
                         Wm Polke Esqr [Addressed] Mr. William Polke PM Chippewa 
                                        Fulton County
                                     Ia [Postmarked] PLYMOUTH Ind. Jun 3 [1839] 
                     
                  
               
                
            Samuel Milroy to William Polke [LS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Logansport
                                 
                              
                           
                                    June 22, 1839.
                                
                        Sir,
                        Would you favour mc with your views relative to the number of Potawattomes residing
                                    within the states of Indiana, 
                                        Michigan
                                     and 
                                        Illinois
                                    , and that if an effort should be made to organize emigrating parties in
                                    these states, respectively, what number would be raised in each, to go West of the 
                                        Mississippi
                                    —Your immediate answer to this requist will be thankfully
                                    acknowledged by
                        
                                    Yr. obt Servt.
                                    Saml. Milroy
                                
                        
                        Judge Wm Polke 
                                        Logansport
                                     Indiana [Addressed] Judge Wm. Polke Logansport Indiana [Endorsed]
                                    Samuel Milroy to W Polk June 22nd 
                     
                  
               
                
            Samuel Milroy to William Poke [ALS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Delphi Indiana
                           
                                    Septer 21st 1839
                                
                        Dr Sir
                        I have received at last full authority to move the Potowatomy Indians—so
                                    soon as one Hundred or upwards can be raised I am authorised to cause them to be
                                    conducted to a Rendezvous—at which place the[y] will receive the
                                    necessary Rations and a necessary supply of clothing—nothing like force
                                    is to be used they must come volunt[a]rily for to the Randozvous—Be so
                                    oblidging as forthwith on the receipt of this to let me know whether a party can in
                                    your opinion be organized in time to avoid the cold weather I am extremly desirous
                                    of sending of a party late as it is in the season—
                        The clothing for present use food from the leave their wigwams to
                                    the Randezvous and on their Journey—and food for a year after they arive
                                    at their new home it would seem to me to be strong inducements to these people in
                                    their present situation One Hundred is sufficient to form an emigration
                                    party—Rut I should much rather have more pleas write as soon as you
                                    receive this
                        
                                    Yours &c Respectfuly—
                                    Saml. Milroy
                                
                        Wm Polk Esqr [Endorsed] gen s milroy [letter?] Sept 21 
                     
                  
               
                
            William Polke to Samuel Milroy [ALS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Chippewa
                           
                                    Sept 25th 1839
                                
                        D Sir
                        yours of the 21st Ins was Recvd by yesterdays mail Informing me you at length had
                                    Reevd Instructions on the subject of the Removal of the Puttawattimes I with you
                                    much Regret that Instructions had not been earlier Received as in that case I have
                                    no Doubts a good emigrating Party might hav[e] been attained I am still of opinion a
                                    party can be had amounting to 100 or 120 and late as it is in the seaso[n] I thinke
                                    it will be less Expence to the government than for them to Remain here as from thier
                                    situation their case will be Desparate and I am fearful unpleasant collisons will
                                    arise between the settlers and Indians I would suggest the propriety of your making
                                    one visit as early as practicable in order to consult with them on the Business it
                                    might be appointed at or near where I now live as a centreal point between the
                                    Indians at their several Incampments up  and Down
                                    Tippicanoe and yellow River19 what even is Done must be
                                    Immediately attended to were were you to authorise me I would have have them
                                    collected at such point and at such Day as you may Designate some Expense must
                                    necessarly be Incured as in making arrangements for their me[e]ting you some
                                    provisions will have to be furnished when I R[e]ceived your letter yesterday a young
                                    Indian was at my house I sent word by him that the government was now Ready to take
                                    them west to their friends in I am now unable to Ride from at [Sic] attack of Rheumatism and would go to Beracks to Day and see the Indians
                                    on the subject to morrow if I am able I will go and ascertain their viewse[?] if
                                    practicable I should like to hear from you by Return mail
                        
                                    I am sir yours with Esteem
                                    Wm Polke
                                
                        ps as your letter was post marked 
                                        Logansport
                                     I have also Directed a letter to you at that place as no time must be
                                    lost [Endorsed] Wm Polke to s milroy sept 21st 1839 
                     
                  
               
                
            Samuel Milroy to William Polke [ALS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Logansport
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Octr 7th 1839
                                
                        Dr Sir
                        I have just arrived after a very tiresom trip—I have seen Mr Taber20 and he is ready to furnish all the supplies necessary for the
                                    Emigration—and will wait for information as to whether the party can be
                                    revised at the time you send a Messenger to me as to the fact of reviseing the
                                    Emigration be so oblidging as to drop a line also to Mr Taber—
                        I have also seen Mr. John Hamilton21 he is ready to undertake the
                                    service we proposed for him and if a term or two would be necessary to aid the
                                    Indians to the Randezvous he can furnish them at the expected notice and further if
                                    you should need his services in forwarding the Indians to the Randezvous he will be
                                    at your services so soon as he is informed that you need him—
                        
                                    Very Respectfuly Yours &c
                                    Saml Milroy
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  19 The Tippecanoe River is a tributary of the
                            Wabash River in north central Indiana. Yellow River runs a few miles
                        north of the Tippecanoe River and enters the Kankakee River about five
                        miles west of 
                            Knox
                        , Indiana.
               
                  20 Cyrus Taber, a native of Rhode Island, moved to 
                            Fort Wayne
                         in 1820 and became quite active in real estate speculation and the merchandising
                        business. He later moved to 
                            Logansport
                         to supervise a branch office. Becoming interested in politics he served as county
                        treasurer and four sessions in the state legislature. Nellie A. Robertson and Dorothy Riker
                        (eds.), The John Tipton Papers (3 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1942), I, 507, note 13. These volumes are XXIV-XXVI of the Indiana
                        Historical Collections (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1916-).
               
                  21 John Hamilton had been a wagonetr on the 1838 emigration.
                        "List of Wagoners, Potawatomi Removal, September, 1838, in ibid.,
                        III, 738–739.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                         William Polk Esqr
                        P. S. If you need Mr Hamil[t]ons aid write him a line to this place—
                        [Addressed] William Polk Esqr Postmaster Chippeway Fulton co. Ind.
                        [Postmarked] LOGAN'sPORT Ia. Oct 8 [1839] free
                        [Endorsed] gen s milroy to W Polke October 7th
                     
                  
               
                
            William Polke to [Samuel Milroy?] [ALS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Chipewa
                           
                                    October 12th [1839]
                                
                        private & confidential
                        Sir
                        Some Indians was at my house during my Journey up the River who said that they would
                                    not Remove this fall that the president had written to mr Ewing22 to furnish them with goods and that he Ewing would Remove them in the
                                    Spring from all that I can learn and Comparing Different Circumstances I am Inclined
                                    to believe that proposals has been made to Remove the Indians by Contracte in the
                                    same manner the southern Indians have been Removed my Reason a proposal was made me
                                    Idenctly made to me to become a partner in such a project as you Could not Succeed
                                    &c and from the Conduct of the Indians there all telling the same Story
                                    there has been emissaries among them
                        
                                    yours as Ever
                                    Wm Polke
                                
                        [Endorsed] Copy to Gen Milroy October 12th
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            William Polke to [Samuel Milroy] [ALS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Chipp[e]wa
                           
                                    October 12th 1839
                                
                        D Sir
                        agreably to your Inst[r]uctions early on monday the 7th Instant in company with
                                    Thomas Robb23 as Interpreter I proceded up the 
                                        Tippecanoe
                                     in order visit the Indians camps and ascertain their views to
                                    emigrating this fall on ariving at Renacks24 I found the Indians
                                    had generally Dispersed as they had aban[d]oned the Idea of Removing this fall on
                                    account of the Lateness of the season I found 
                              
                                 22 Alexander Ewing and sons, Charles W., William G.,
                                            George W., and Alexander H., of A. Ewing and Sons, moved to 
                                                Fort Wayne
                                             from 
                                                Ohio
                                             in 1822, and were best known for their fur trading and real
                                            estate operations. They carried on extensive trading with the Indians and
                                            presented large claims against their annuity payments. Branch houses were
                                            established in 
                                    Peru, Logansport
                                 , and Lagro, Indiana,
                                            and in 
                                                Minnesota
                                             and 
                                                Missouri
                                            . ibid., I, 326, notes 44 and 45; 328, note
                                            49.
                              
                                 23 Thomas Robb was a clerk for the Ewings and often
                                            acted as interpreter. ibid., I, 326, note 44.
                              
                                 24 Stephen Benack (Bennac, Osheakkebe) was the chief
                                            of the Potawatomi village located a few miles north of present
                                                    
                                    Warsaw, Kosciusko County
                                 ,
                                            Indiana. ibid., I, 617, note 28.
                           
                                     Checo Koos25 one of the most
                                    Intelligent of the Indians who said he could not go this fall it was so Late but
                                    that he would early in the spring [Moses] Bunet [Bonet] being absent I left a letter
                                    for him stating your proposition &c Requesting him to me[e]t me on my
                                    Return of Thursday or friday and passed on the same evening to Leesburgh in 
                                        Kosciusco County
                                     where I found Mr Reid26 there were also several
                                    Indians Drinking and objected on account of the Lateness of the season and Declined
                                    assisting us the next morning I visited the Cheif at his Camp who I found
                                    Intoxicated but who promised me he would become sober and talk with me on my return
                                    I thus proceded on to Blue River
                           27 with in
                                    20 miles of 
                                        Fort Wayne
                                     when I was Informed there was a small Band waiting to Remove when I
                                    arrived I found about 25[?] the most wretched and Degraded Beings I ever witnessed
                                    Intoxicated and were in a state of [manuscript illegible] the Inhabitants
                                    exasperated at them and the person who supplyed them with whisky they readily agreed
                                    to emigrate when they became sober to prevent unpleasant Circumstances or Collisions
                                    I made arrangements to have them Removed hot and left Rob to conduct them and
                                    Hastened on my Return to meet those I passed as I had seen as I passed as I went up
                                    the River.
                        I found them sober but Refused to go this fall it was so late but all said they had
                                    been Ready to go earlier and would be Ready Early in the spring on passing by Bunets
                                    he had left home I think we are Released from all obligations to employ either Reed
                                    or Bunet hereafter on my arrival at home last evening I found learned that several
                                    Indians had been here to see me in my absence this morning I again Rode Down to the
                                    village at Robbs as I was fearful from what I had heard they had separated and
                                    abandoned the Idea of Removing but I found a few more Collected and anxious to
                                    Remove or to Know at once so that they might separate and Hunt as they were nearly
                                    out of provisions I prevailed upon them to Remain three Days by which time Rob would
                                    be here under all the circumstance Can we colect between 20 & 100 I shall
                                    Bring them on Believing we can so Explain the Business to the Department they will
                                    approve of our course for so small a party we must Dispenee with guards and other
                                    unnecessary persons as we must make it a Cheap Emigration
                        I send you this by Mr Moses Ronet who has Kindly agreed to take it to you on monday
                                    he is a gentleman who you may Rely upon any state any statemetns he may make to you
                                    he was very serviceable to 
                              
                                 25 Chechaukkose (Chechawkose, Chicose, etc.) or Little
                                            Crane was the chief of the Potawatomi village located between
                                            Benack's village and the present city of 
                                                Warsaw
                                            . Frederick W. Hodge (ed.), Handbook of American
                                                Indians North of Mexico (2 parts, Washington,
                                            1907–1910), part 1 (1907), 241.
                              
                                 26 Probably Charles Reid (Reed), an Indian trader.
                                            "Charles Reed: Bond for Trader's License, August 12,
                                            1823," in Robertson and Riker, The John Tipton
                                            Papers, I, 313–314.
                              
                                 27 Probably Blue Creek that flows into Eel
                                                River about five miles south of present
                                                    
                                    Columbia City,
                                                    Whitley
                                            County
                                 , Indiana.
                           
                                     us in the last emigration when I see you I can
                                    more fully explain my Journey &c
                        
                                    Your obedient serv
                                    Wm Polke
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Samuel Milroy to William Polke [ALS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Delphi Octr
                           
                                    21st 1839
                                
                        Dr Sir,
                        A deputitions of the Potowatomis have been to visit me—with Pash-po28 at their head Mr Barson29 Mr
                                    Robb—and Mr Trucky30 were with them—and
                                    they have given me assurences that they can raise a party of seventy at this late
                                    period—and are disposed to emigrate—they say the[y] have the
                                    winter to endure and they may as well be on they way as any where else—If
                                    on the receipt of this—you also are disposed to go as conductor, on the
                                    terms we spoke of—and a party of the number you above spoken of can be
                                    obtained—you are hereby authorised to take the most prompt measures for
                                    forwarding them here, and every thing shall be ready for continuing th[e]ir
                                    Journey—without any delay—I have given orders to Mr Taber, to
                                    furnish them with blankets—who are here, and will have blankets and other
                                    clothing ready for them when they arrive here—those here will receive
                                    their blankets on their return home—
                        The regulations require that not to exceed 1500 Ibs be taken for every 50
                                    persons—we will not be too particular on this subject, but must conform
                                    as near as may be posible to the regulations—something like or near that
                                    proportion will regulate the transportation of baggage—I suppose five two
                                    Horse teams—will easy convoy th[e]ir bagage—as to officers I
                                    shall leave it very much to you—and will do with as few individuals as
                                    can be got along with—If on the whole you conclude that it is imposible
                                    to go at this late season of the year—you will so inform the
                                    Indians—and request them to hold themselves in readyness for an early
                                    emigration in the spring If however you think it practacticab[le] [sic] to go—you will be so good as to take measures for furnishing
                                    them with provisions on the route to this place for which your vouchers will be
                                    duely honoured and from hear a Commisary will be appointed—I have by this
                                    oportunity written to Mr Hamilton to hold himself subject to you orders—
                        
                           
                              28 Pashpo (Pashpoho, Pashpoo) was the chief of a
                                        Potawatomi village situated on Yellow River, a tributary of the Kankakee River. "
                                            Tipton
                                        : Memorandum for Moses H. Scott, May, 1829," in Robertson
                                        and Riker, The John Tipton Papers, II, 169–171.
                           
                              29 Joseph Barron was a French fur trader from 
                                            Vincennes
                                         and has been characterized as "Harrison's most
                                        capable and trusted interpreter and scout." He had been present at the
                                        negotiations and had signed nearly all the treaties negotiated by Harrison with
                                        the Indians. Logan Esarey (ed.), Messages and Letters of William
                                            Henry Harrison (2 vols., 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , Indiana, 1922), I, 165, note 3. These volumes are VII and IX of
                                        the Indiana Historical Collections.
                           
                              30 Joseph Truckey was probably a French trader. 
                                            Tipton
                                         to Lewis Cass, Agency Office, October 31, 1828, in Robertson and
                                        Riker, The John Tipton Papers, II, 113.
                        
                        
                        Any thing not herein adverted to, will be left on the terms we Spoke of, or left to
                                    your own discretion [?] is, you know enjoined on me—and I doubt not you
                                    will observe it in all that relates to this emigration—
                        
                                    Very respectfully your friend &c
                                    Saml. Milroy Supt
                                
                         Wm Polk Esqr P. S. so soon as you find the number of the emigration please to
                                    drop a line to Mr Taber, who is to furnish each with a Blanket and also the tents we
                                    spoke of will be furnished—If you so order it Mr Hamilton will bring the
                                    Blankets and tents to the Rendezvous— S Milroy
                           
                                    Judge Polk— [Addressed] Wm Polk Esqr Chippeway 
                                        Fulton County
                                     Ind Care of Mr Robb [Endorsed] ge[n] S Milroy W Polk octo. 21st 1839
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Samuel Milroy to William Polke [ALS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Delphi
                           
                                    Octr 22d 1839—
                                
                        Dr Sir
                        I wrote you yesterday by Mr Robb I again address you least something may not be
                                    sufficiently understood—I have informed the Indians that none but them
                                    that would actually emigrate should under any pretence whatever have
                                    provisions—and that none should be allowed to have a pound of Government
                                    provisions unless enrolled to emigrate—and that Government would under no
                                    pretence give provisions or articles of clotheing to those who were not disposed to
                                    emigrate—this you will please make known to all the
                                    Indians—and the gre[a]test care must be taken that none enroll to go with
                                    the intention of obtaining provisions &c Ewing and his emisaries are at
                                    work and every fraud will be attempted—
                        I am of opinion that Robb is not to be depended on—and have informed him
                                    that you would be required in the strictest manner to dismiss every man that would
                                    git drunk—I have been told he was drunk when you and me was calculating
                                    on him for public service of the most important character Drunkards in no instence
                                    will be permitted to remain in public employ—the bad example is a
                                    sufficient reason for the enforcement of this regulation—
                        Dr. Sir. I rely on your judgement and discration in all that relates to starting this
                                    handful of Indians so late in the season—The reasons that induced me to
                                    accept of a less emigration than one Hundred is that this party—has been
                                    relying on emigrating and have not made the provision for winter that otherwise they
                                    would have done—and If I would refuse to send them when they are desirous
                                    of going it would most probably be injurious as to future
                                    operations—The[y] say truely the[y] have the winter to endure and if
                                    going they will be clothed for it, if not they are without clothing as well as
                                    provisions humanity I think requires them to be sent in as much as they are desirous
                                    to go—
                        
                        I have ventured to give those that came to see me blankets. I trust I may not be
                                    cheated by them—we have risks to run with these people—I
                                    calculate to be ready in all respects to send them on very soon on their being
                                    brought hear—a dificulty had like to have arrisen with these people
                                    the[y] pretended to believe that I would furnish wagons to carry all thier plunder
                                    at that rate it would have required a Wagon for every family or man—you
                                    know the regulations and we must conform to them as near as may be as well as
                                    convaying their Bagage to the Randazvous as on the route such deviations as
                                    discretion and prudence would dictate may be made as to transporting their household
                                    stuf hear but from here the regulations must be strictly observed and I have so told
                                    them and it will be proper to so inform them on all occasions—I say to
                                    them that the Government invites them to go on the most liberal terms. While we
                                    would gladly accept half such good terms—if they accept it is well, they
                                    will solicit to be taken before they are again invited—and I hesitate not
                                    to say that as good terms will not again be offered—I hope if they
                                    Indians go it will suit you to go with them we need your experience and your age
                                    will command respect use your discretion as to sending a messenger to let me know as
                                    to the starting of the party and when to look for them if they go—
                        
                                    Your friend and obdt Srv [manuscript torn]
                                    Saml Milroy Ind Agent
                           
                                
                        
                                    Wm Polk Esqr [Addressed] Wm Polk Esq Chippeway 
                                        Fulton County
                                     Indiana care of Pash. po [Endorsed] gen s milroy to W
                                    Polk Oct 22 1839 
                     
                  
               
                
            Samuel Miiroy to William Polke [ALS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Delphi
                           
                                    23d of October 1839—
                                
                        Dr Sir
                        After the party of Indians left my house having letters to you from me relative to an
                                    emigration—I went into Delphi and the first news that met me was the Bank Suspension—from which I think it indispensiblc to
                                    wait the orders of the department relative to funds for the proposed emigration. My
                                    instructions did not authorise me to anticipate the Department as to procuring of
                                    funds—tho' for the purpose of sending these people a way who
                                    were so desirous of going I should have done so—but now as the Banks have
                                    all Suspended and suspending specie payments31—I have
                                    determined to wait the orders of the Department and be strictly governed by my
                                    instructions which is as follows Viz "Funds will be placed in your hands
                                    for the emigration whenever this office shall be informed that they will be wanted
                                    upon reasonable calculation" I am making out this cal[c]ulation, or 
                              
                                 31 On May 10, 1837, banks in 
                                                New York
                                             suspended specie payment. Gradually most of the banks over the
                                            country also suspended specie ayment. Reginald C. McGrane, The
                                                Panic of 1897, Some Financial problems of the Jacksonian Era (
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1924), passim.
                           
                                     estimate, and will forthwith forward it to the
                                    Department for an emigration of one Hundred Indians—and so soon as the
                                    funds are received, then if the Indians are still disposed to go, an effort will be
                                    made to send them, not with standing the effort of the 
                                        Logansport
                                     people—doubtless under the present circumstances you will
                                    think with me—that it is altogether necessary to allow the Department to
                                    furnish the funds as they have promised to do—if the funds are not needed
                                    they need not be drawn from the public depository—I therefore have to
                                    request that you will take such means as you find most convenient to require the
                                    Indians that were disposed to emigrate to hold on for the present, untill funds are
                                    obtained from the Goverment—The funds were and are obtaineable but they
                                    would be in Bank paper—that might become unavaileable on our
                                    hands—You will as requested in my former letter pleas certify the
                                    services of the individuals employed by you to communicate inteligence to the
                                    Indians, as also your own time so employ—as also the ammount of
                                    provisions furnished to the Indians —and a requisition will be made for
                                    the money—to pay the expense I am rather of opinion, Robbs account is
                                    larger as he give it to me, I presume he was drunk a part of the time—
                        You will again hear from me shortly—If it could be ascertained that any
                                    other mode than that adopted by the Government as to sending away the Indians would
                                    be more effecatious or cheaper—I certainly would favour it, and heartily
                                    recommend it to the Government, whether it was by Contract or any
                                    other way—the object is to git the Indians away and if the 
                                        Logansport
                                     people can move them at a saveing to the Goverment I will certainly
                                    favour their plan, and you are hereby authorised to say so to them if you think
                                    proper—I care not who moves the Indians, so it be done
                                    speedily—and with economy—pleas write me on the receipt of
                                    this
                        
                                    Your old friend And obdt Servt
                                    Saml Milroy
                                
                         Wm Polk Esqr P. S. I have by last mail received a letter from Mr Ketchen of 
                                        St Joseph Co
                                        Michigan
                                    —relative to the Indians in his vicinity—he is of
                                    opinion that nothing but an armed force, will move the Indians in 
                                        Michigan
                                    —I trust milder means will be found to answer—
                                    [Addressed] Wm Polk Esqr Postmaster Chippeway 
                                        Fulton Co
                                    
                                    Indiana Delphi Ind Oct. 23d Free [Endorsed] S Milroy to Wm Polke
                                    October 23rd 
                     
                  
               
                
            William Polke to [Cyrus Taber] [ALS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Wm Polke Chippewa
                           
                                    October 23rd 1839
                                
                        Sir
                        Chippewa octobe[r] 23
                        Sir yours of yesterday has been Recei[ve]d was this morning handed me by T Robb this
                                    morning I thank you for your Suggestions as to the proper course of proceeding this
                                    winter it is in accordance with my views but I know not whether the Gen Melroys
                                    would Instructions  would will authorise such a
                                    Course of proceedings with out special Instructions from the Commissioner of Indian
                                    affairs I have Sent him a Copy of your letter with my own views views there on and
                                    should the Department authorise such a course I have no Doubt that it will be an act
                                    of Benevolence & Humanity on the part of the government and will advance
                                    the cause of emigration next year I have given Robb & Pashpo three Days
                                    to Raise the Required number of Emigrants and should they (Contrary to my
                                    expectation) Raise them I will forth with advise you there of and start
                        
                                    I am sir your with Respect
                                    Wm Polke
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            William Polke to Samuel Milroy [ALS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Chippewa
                           
                                    October 23rd 1839
                                
                        Dear sir
                        yours of the 21 by Robb and 22 Pashpo come to hand this morning I am Decidedly of the
                                    opinion under with the Difficulties we have to encounter that the Requisite number
                                    of Seventy Cannot be obtained and I so Informed Mr. Robb and Pashpo this morning and
                                    Informed told them we could not Incur any further expence on uncertainty but that if
                                    they Could obtain seventy I would forth with be Ready to attend to them and Conduct
                                    them west I Informed Pash pe that he had Better avoid 
                                        Rochester
                                     as the sherif would take him on [mr business?] account he said he would
                                    go through 
                                        Rochester
                                     by would not be taken he wished to know if he Could get Secur[i]ty if I
                                    would take them west I Informed him I would he said he would Return in three Days if
                                    he conld get the Requisite. Number it will be Difficult should he get the Required
                                    Number this late (should the weather set in should the weather set in cold and wet)
                                    in passing the 
                                        Illinois
                                     prairies but I think it practicable and will in all my Communications
                                    with the Indians I have invariably told them that we could not promise them as good
                                    terms Next year and have on all occasions told them they ought to go this season for
                                    if they Did not go they need not expect any mony in this country I am much pleased
                                    that you Informed Robb that you should Require all Drunkards to be Dismissed the
                                    public Pervice I fully agree with you that Robb is not to be Depended upon Indeed
                                    there are but few that have lived with the Indians that we can put Implicit
                                    Confidence in but must guard agains their Deceptions on my Return from the head of 
                                        Tippecanoe
                                     I wrote to Mr Taber that probably an emigrating party would be Raised
                                    but expressed some Doubts and Requested his opinion on what would be the proper
                                    Course to pursue this winter in order to Insure a prompt emigration Next spring in
                                    case we failed this fall Mr Robb this morning brought me a letter from him of which
                                    I enclose you a copy and my Reply on this date Some time the ensuing week I will
                                    visit you so that we can Digest our mode of operations during the winter to
                                    counteract the movements of Mr E[wing] & his emissaries which I think may
                                    be Done by Beginning in time
                        
                                    I am Sir your obedient ser
                                
                        
                        ps I have certified Robbs Bill as you Requested please when you pay him Retain
                                    sixteen Dollars which I have advanced him and Which he obtained on my Credit whill
                                        [sic] to Defray his traveling Expences W
                                    P [Endorsed] W Polke to S Milroy Octo 23 1839 Copy 
                     
                  
               
                
            William Polke to [Samuel Milroy?] [ALS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Chippewa
                           
                                    October 28th 1839
                                
                        Sir
                        yours of the 23 was rec[e]ived on the eveing of the 25th it unfortunately at Logans
                                    was not put in the way mail that after I had mailed you my letter of that date
                                    Directing me to suspend all futher operations in Regard to the emigrating
                                    Puttawattimies and on the morning of the 26th I proceeded to the Incampment about 14
                                    miles from my house in order to Inform them of the necissity of postponing the
                                    emigration I was much perplexed to Know how to to Know Determine in what manner to
                                    Communicate the Intelligence to them in a way that they could understand was not to
                                    let them know that it was on account of our not having the money to go Defray the
                                    expenses of the emigration but on my arrival at their camp I found that Ewing had in
                                    order to prevent the emigration (as he is advised) of every movement by his
                                    Emissaries among the Indians) had had procured precepts [?] I maid of a Justice of
                                    the peace of the Township against the most of them for small Debts and had the
                                    Constables after them and had Chased[?] of[f] about 20 so that there was only about
                                        6032 on the ground I told them as we could not get enough to
                                    emigrate this fall at present we would they had Better go to their Hunting Camps and
                                    Hunt this winter untill I heard from their great father and then we would Quietly[?]
                                    assemble and start them on their Journey so that they should not be Intercepted they
                                    appeared pleased with the project but said they Did not Know how they were to get
                                    ammunition as we did not want themi to Commence with and but five of them had guns I
                                    promised them a few pounds of powder & had to be taken out of say 4
                                    pounds powder & 10 pound of lead which I have sent for for them I found
                                    them Destitute of any thing to eat as they had eaten up [manuscript illegible] and
                                    had to give them one order on Chamberlain33 for 500 pound flour
                                    to subsist upon untill they arrive at their hunting grounds I told them they must
                                    expect no more and that they must subsist by Hunting and Trapping I recvd[?] it a
                                    case Dictated by of Imperious necessity and such a one under all the circumstances
                                    that could easily be the Department would sanction without Hesitation
                        
                                    I am sir you obedient serv
                                    Wm Polk Conduct[or]
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  32 "50" or "60." "5"
                        and "6" have been written over each other on the manuscript.
               
                  33 Alexander Chamberlain had built a log tavern on the Wabash
                            River opposite the mouth of Eel River which was used as
                        temporary yarters for the Indian agency. Robertson and Riker, The John Tipton
                            Papers, II, 35, note 29.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        ps by Next mail I will furnish you with a Detailed acount of all my procedings with
                                    an abstract of the expences that has been concurred so that you can advise the
                                    Department of our full operations I will also give my views in full of what will be
                                    the most prudent Course to pursue this winter to Insure a speedy siid and Cheap
                                    Emigration Next year as I [our?] I heartily Concur with you in the wish Desire that
                                    the Indians may be Removed Next year with the least possible expence to the
                                    government consistent with Humanity Let who may Remove them report
                        [Endorsed] Copy to gen milroy October 28th
                     
                  
               
                
            William Polke to A. Martin [ADS]34
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        The united states to A martin Dr
                        October 26 furnishing three Indians and their Horses supper Breakfast and Lodging as
                                    per directions of Wm Polke Conducter they being engaged in public Business by
                                    Direction of said Polke on the 26th October 1839 at one Dollor for each man and
                                    Horse amounting to three dollors $3 [manuscript defaced] I hereby Certify
                                    the above account to be Cor [manuscript defaced]
                        Chipewa October 31st, 1839 Wm Polke Conducter
                        [1st endorsement] Copy to gen milroy November 1st 1839 [over penciled endorsement] A
                                    Martin Duplicate
                        
                           
                              Robb
                              62
                              50
                           
                           
                              Barron
                              62
                              50
                           
                           
                              Trucky
                              81
                              
                           
                           
                              W Polke
                              185
                              
                           
                           
                              Chamberlain
                              15
                              
                           
                           
                              Martin
                              11
                              50
                           
                           
                              Lassele35
                              
                              4
                              75
                           
                           
                              $422
                              25
                              
                           
                        
                        [2d endorsement] W Polke to S Milroy Nov[ember?] 1st 1839
                     
                  
               
                
            William Polke to [Samuel Milroy] [ALS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              [Chippewa, Indiana]
                           
                                    [November, 1839]
                                
                        Dear sir
                        by to Days mail I transmit you the papers made out of all expences 
                              
                                 34 A duplicate of this manuscript, probably a copy,
                                            but without the endorsements, is in The William Polke Collection. It is
                                            entirely lined out. To it is appended the following letter of Polke to
                                            [Milroy], [November, 1839].
                              
                                 35 Probably Hyacinthe Lasselle, Sr., an Indian trader
                                            and son of a British agent to the Indians along the Wabash
                                            River. He maintained a trading post near the mouth of the
                                                Vermillion River on the Wabash
                                            River. About 1804, he moved to 
                                                Vincennes
                                             where he kept an inn for a number of years. In 1833, Lasselle
                                            moved to 
                                                Logansport
                                             and maintained a business there until his death in 1843.
                                            Robertson and Riker, The John Tipton Papers, I, 539, note
                                            34.
                           
                                     Incured in Regard k assembling the Indians I
                                    Regret that so many circumstances conspired to stop the emigration this fall these
                                    Indians were so anxious to Remove I believe had not the 
                                        Logansport
                                     people traders have Interfered we Should have had near 150 by the first
                                    of this ment [h] I submit to you the propriety of putting in the gun to Pash po if
                                    you think it Improper on that Department wont sanction it I have made a conditional
                                    Bargain with Mr [Martin?] for him to take Rack his gun in the spring when they
                                    Remove provided pashpo has not Injured in who the powder & laad [sic] they could not Commence their Hunt without I was in hopes by
                                    this mail to have made out a Detailed statement of my proceedings with some
                                    suggestions what in my opinion will be a prudent course to pursue this winter in
                                    order to Insure a good emigration Next spring some four or five of the principle
                                    Indians in 
                                        Michigan
                                     under the Influence of some Canadian french Traders are opposed to
                                    emigration but the majority are willing and can be engaged many were prepared
                                    whenever they were Informed of an emigration from Indiana was Ready to start to come
                                    on and Join we must watch those who "are continually throwing obstacles in
                                    our way as their object is to hinder both the Indians and the government Should you
                                    believe same not entitled to the pay of conductor or that you might be [Blamed?] for
                                    the appointment before the Certainty of an emigration you will so Inform me and I
                                    will so make out the accounts I have been as Economical as the nature of the
                                    Business would admit of Both Barron & Trucky Claimed more but I would not
                                    consent only what I believed was as much or more than they were Intitled to should
                                    feel your self authorised you allow me the pay of conductor you will be so good as
                                    to make out a formal appointment Dated on the 26th of sept when I commenced constant
                                    operations to enable to certify the accounts which I have [?] as conductor by next
                                    mail I hapa to [manuscript illegible] for I will write you [manuscript
                                    illegible]" as
                        
                                    I am sir your friend and obedient servant.
                                    Wm Polk Conductor
                                
                        ps would it not be asured for you to make out a formal order to suspend further
                                    operations in the emigration after the 31st of October to be Dated on the same Day
                                    as your Letter that is the 23 so that the pay should cease on that Day until again
                                    ordered in service.
                     
                  
               
                
            William Polke to [Samuel Milroy?] [ALS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Chipp[e]wa
                           
                                    November 4th 1839
                                
                        D sir
                        Agreeably to the suggestion made in my last letter to you that I would give my views
                                    as to what would be the proper Course to pursue this winter in order to Insure the
                                    emigration of the principal part of the Puttawattimies the ensuing season with out
                                    Difficulty Recent occurrences in Respect to the Emigration attempted the Last month
                                    shows the necessity (of as far as practicable) to take the Indians from under the
                                    Controll of the traders and putting them Immediately under the guardianship of the
                                    Superintendant who I would should be authorised to furnish them with a few guns
                                    ammunition and some of  the most Destitute with
                                    some Clothing and as what Remains as there is more than a common proportion of
                                    widows & orphans among what Remains some provisions occasionally be
                                    supplied all to be furnished them with a positive understanding and agreement that
                                    it should be furnished them at a fair valuation and to be paid for out of their
                                    annuities at some Future payment over the mississippi and with the further
                                    understanding that no supplies be furnished only to such as would Consent to
                                    emigrate in the spring should the government authoris such a course of proceeding I
                                    would take a trip to their Hunting Camps and examine personally their Examine
                                    situation and wants I would purchase supplies only from such persons as would aid us
                                    the ensuing spring I know a gentleman Near the head of 
                                        Tippecanoe
                                     who would gladly furnish any supplies on the most Reasonable terms and
                                    who I can fully Confide in and who has obtained the Confidence of the Indians by his
                                    Correct course in his dealings with them and his Refusing on any Condition to
                                    furnish them with Intoxicating liquor that when I was on my late tour they pointed
                                    to him as a good man who would not Cheat Indians he has promised to aid us should
                                    the Department app[r]ove of such a course and you be Instructed to carry it into
                                    effect it might be as well to extend it to 
                                        Michigan
                                     I think by employing two or three persons that I am acquainted with to
                                    furnish them this winter what you may [manuscript illegible] by spring the most of
                                    the 
                                        Michigan
                                     Indians would Remove Should the above plan meet your approbation and
                                    you Should think proper to Correspond with the Department on the subject I would
                                    thank you to Drop me aline [sic] with such amendments and
                                    suggestions as you may Deem necessary
                        
                                    I am sir as ever your friend and obedient serv [manuscript illegible]
                                    Wm Polk
                                
                        ps should the traders in the spring (as I have no Doubts they will) Bring suits
                                    agains[t] Indians I would let them put them to Jail as their only object is to
                                    embaras the Emigration and when they see we will not Bail them out they will trun
                                    them out Rather than be at the Expence of Keeping them and we can then wait a few
                                    Days at some point on the Road for all such to overtake them us &c
                                    &c. ps accompineng[?] this you will Receive a Journal of my
                                    procedings which I thought was proper for me to communicate to yo[u] so that you can
                                    fully advise the Department of my procedings &c should my course meet
                                    your approbation should you be authorised to pay my accounts and have the public
                                    funds in your hands I would thank you to transmit by mail at my Risk as 1 hare I am
                                    pressed just now for some money which I had promised on the emigratio[n] Deduct the
                                    20 Dollers you handed me at my house &c W[illiam]
                                        [Polke] [Endorsed] Copy to gen milroy Nov 4th 1830 
                     
                  
               
                
            Polke Journal of Proceedings [AD] Chippewa Sept 25 1839
            Journal of procedings in Collecting Indians for Emigratio[n]
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Sept 25
                        Recvd aletter [sic] from superintendent Informing me he had at
                                    [manuscript illegible] Recvd Instruction on the subject of puttawattomi Emigration
                                    and proposing for me to Conduct the emigrat[i]on which by Return mail on the 25 I
                                    accepted I informed gen melroy of my aceptance
                        S[eptember] 26
                        being still unwell and unable to travel I Dispatched Thomas Robb agreably to
                                    directions of superi[n]tenden[t] up the River to notify Indians
                        [September] 28
                        T Robb Retu[r]n[e]d with the acco[u]nts that prospects were Favourable not having
                                    Recvd any further Communications from super-intendant Remained at home unwell
                                    [manuscript illegible]
                        Th October 3rd
                        gen milroy having Recover[e]d his health so far as to be able to travel visited my
                                    house to Confer on the Emigration
                        Frid[a]y 4
                        in Company with gen melroy visited pashpos Incampment about 13 miles Down 
                                        Tippecanoe
                                     found about 50 assembl[e]d anxious to Remove Left Joseph Barron as
                                    Interpretter to tak[e] Care of them and to aid in Collecting Indians and
                                    Retu[r]n[e]d home same evening
                        satuday 5
                        Visited plymouth for Info[r]mation Respect[in]g yellow River Indians find them
                                    generally Dispers[e]d to Hasty Camps
                        Sunday 6
                        Retu[r]n[e]d to Chippewa
                        monday 7
                        in Company with T Robb as Interpretter started up tippecanoe to notify Indians of
                                    Emigration at 12 stopped at Benacks village about 12 miles found Abraham Burnet36 who I was Instructed to see and propose Imployment to absent
                                    left a message for him to Remain at home on friday by which time I Intended to
                                    Return Conversed w[ith] Che co Koos one of the most sensible and Respectable of the
                                    Indians who saw [said] he had Intended to Remove this season but that it was now so
                                    late he Could not go this fall but that he would give me his honour to emigrate in
                                    the spr[i]ng and advise the Emigration might be Early as the squaws were unwilling
                                    after they planted their Corn to leave it
                        pass[e]d on the same Evening through rain to leesburgh where on my arrival a [sic]
                                    found some Indians Intoxicated I also Called on Mr Reed who I was also Instructed to
                                    Employ to assist me in Collecting 
                              
                                 36 Abram or Abraham Burnet was a Potawatomi who had
                                            acted as an interpreter for the 1838 emigration. Abel C. Pepper to Carey A.
                                            Harris, Forks Wabash, September 6, 1838, in ibid., III,
                                            696–697.
                           
                                     Indians found him not Disposed to Render us any
                                    assistance founded his objection on the lateness of the season
                        Tuesday 8
                        proceded by way of Oswego situated at Musquabuchs37 old village
                                    my friend mr french acompan[i]ed me to the Indian Camps found about 30 Drinking on
                                    my making Known my Business the Chief said he was unfit for Business but would be
                                    sober on my Return and give me an answer proceded on to Bluegrass Creek38 about twenty miles from 
                                        fort Wayne
                                     where I was Informed there was a Band of some fifty or sixty anxious to
                                    Remove arriv[e]d at mr Godfrys about one hour after Dark much fatigued having
                                    travell[e]d upwards of thirty miles this day
                        wednesday 9
                        after Breakfast visited the Indian Camp where I found between 20 & 30 of
                                    the most wretched Degraded Indians that I Ever witnessed Drunk and almost in a state
                                    of Starvation [?]
                        net said they would go when they Became sober I left Rob to Bring them on as I could
                                    not Remain upon uncertainty Retu[r]ned Direct[e]d Rob to Remain but two Days and
                                    Returned same Day to oswego 27 miles
                        thursday 10th
                        Remained at oswego as the Indian Chief had promised my friend mr french in my absence
                                    he would give me an answer had a Conference with him in the afternoon saw it was
                                    getting so late in the season his people had Dispersed to their Hunting Camps and
                                    Could Not be Collected in time but they would all go Early in the sp[r]ing said
                                    something about being fu[r]nished with ammunition for Hunting &c which I
                                    promptly Inform [e]d I was not authorised to give him but that they as they Declined
                                    going must Rely upon their own exertions mr Reed acted as Interpretter
                        Friday 11th
                        started early as I passed Rurnets found he was again absent from which I concluded he
                                    is not Disposed to assist in the present season arvd at home late in the Evening
                                    through a Heavy Rain
                        Saturday 12th
                        this Day visited pashpo Camp which was appoint[e]d as the Rendesvous or starting
                                    point found about seventy assembled Ready to Emigrate and without any subsistance
                                    waiting with anxiety for my Return orderd Directed Trucky to furnish them with three
                                    Days Rations of Corn & Beef he having those article on hand whic[h]
                                    untill the arivel of Robb and his party Return[e]d home to make arrangements for
                                    Starting Immediately on the arrival of Robb & his party should he suceed
                        
                           
                              37 Mesquawbuck (Mesquabuck, Musquabuck) was chief of a
                                        Potawatomi village of that name near present Oswego, 
                                            Kosciusko County
                                        , Indiana. Hodge, Handbook of American Indians North of
                                            Mexico, part 1, 847.
                           
                              38 Probably Blue Creek. See note 27.
                        
                        
                        Wednesday 16th
                        Robb arrived without any Indians I Instructed him to proced to the Camp and Inform
                                    them they must Disperse to their hunting Camps and Directed Trucky to furnish them
                                    with three additional Days Rations which with the five Days previously furnished
                                    made Eight Days Rations for 70 Indians furnished thus Business Remained untill
                                    having thus arrange were making by some of the traders in 
                                        Logansport
                                     to have mr Barron & some of the principal Indians arrested
                                    for Debt I advised them to Remain Quiet at their Caps and avoid the officers that
                                    might come to arrest them should they attempt it.
                        wednesday 23
                        [manuscript illegible] Rob & pashpo arrive arriv[e]d with letters from the
                                    Superintendant Instructing me Could seventy be obtain[e]d they were so anxious to go
                                    that he would send them on my expressing Doubts whether the Number Could be obtained
                                    pashpo proposed to go and Colect that Number against the Next Day or and Return in
                                    three Days provided he succeded on the Next Day Return[e]d said he had eighty and
                                    those would be 100 I Dispatched him to Camp the same Night to make preperations and
                                    I would be Down the next Day and Inroll & start them on to the general
                                    Rendesvous—
                        thursday 25 [sic]
                        
                        on passing 
                                        Rochester
                                     on my way to the encampment I learned that the pashpo and Baron had
                                    been arrested the Night before and were in Confinement for Debt on pashpo for
                                    something upwards of two hundred Dollars on Reflection I concluded to Bail him out
                                    as without him the Emigration must fail and it would have an operate against the
                                    Emigration hereafter and if the government we would not Retain the amount out of his
                                    proportion of the annuities to Bring him Back with me and Deliver him up at the
                                    spring Courts which he consented to and Immediately Dispatched him to Camp with the
                                    Intelligence and post poned my Journey to Camp until the Next Day on the arrival of
                                    the mail I Rece[i]v[e]d a letter from the superintendant Dated 23 postponing all
                                    further operations on account of the suspension of payments by the Banks untill
                                    further orders from the Department and advising that I communicate the Intelligence
                                    to the Indians in that way that I might think proper
                     
                  
               
                
            Samuel Milroy to T. Hartley Crawford39 [ALS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Indian Agency Delphi Indiana
                           
                                    Nov. 8. 1839
                                
                        Sir
                        In conformity with what I conceive to be my duty I transmit a sumery, for the
                                    information of the Department of my proceedings under authority of the instructions
                                    contained in your letter of the 9th 
                              
                                 39 Thomas Hartley Crawford served as United States
                                            Commissioner of Indian Affairs, 1838–1845. A biograhical sketch
                                            is given in Biographical Directory of the American Congress,
                                                1774–1927 (rev. ed Washington, 1928), 859.
                           
                                     of Sept. last relative to the removel west of
                                    the remaining Potowatomy Indians-as; [sic] soon as my health would
                                    permit after the receipt of the Instructions refered to I visited the Indian
                                    country—and took all the necessary steps relative to raising an
                                    emigration— I appointed William Polk Esq. conductor—the Same
                                    Gentleman who had charge of the Emigration of last year—this appointment
                                    I believed to be a good one his perfect aquaintance with Indian caracter, his
                                    personal aquaintance with the Indians, to be removed—his respectibility
                                    his age and experience, all cornhine to render him the most fit person I could find
                                    for that office, I visited this Gentleman at his, residance, made him perfectly
                                    aquaintcd with the instructions under which I was authorised to act—Under
                                    the direction of Mr Polk Several Individuals ware Sent to the different camps or
                                    villages to communicate to the Indians the intentions of the Goverment relative to
                                    their removal—with these they \yare well pleased particularly when they
                                    understood that their Great Father allowed them to dicide for themselves as to the
                                    propriety of emigrating—and I cannot doubt but the conciliatory measures
                                    enjoined in my instructions will effect much more with these people than measures of
                                    an opposit caracter—for a further view of the proceedings I herewith
                                    transmit extracts from the letters and also the Journal of Judge Polk, which he has
                                    forwarded to me—from these it will be seen, that when a party was
                                    assembled sufficient to warrint their organization, some of those individuals
                                    resident at 
                                        Logansport
                                     who now posess much wealth which was maid from the Indians, sent their
                                    emisaries amongst them with the civil off[i]cers, and arrested some for debt, and
                                    frightened others to the woods. this would not have occasioned but the postponement
                                    of a few days, had I been furnished with funds to have proceeded according to my
                                    calculation, I had contemplated to have obtained an accomidation on some terms in
                                    Bank, by selling a draft or otherwise for which I had been making araingcmcnts. when
                                    the news of the Rank Suspension reached us, I then conceived it improper to receive
                                    nank paper the value of which was wholely uncertain for Goverment funds—I
                                    was therefore forced to adopt the course of Sending them to their
                                    hunting camps; until further—This party is now prepaired to Start West,
                                    at any time it may be deemed expedient to Send them—Rut I have concluded
                                    in conformity with the opinion of Judge Polk that it would be most proper not to
                                    start an emigration before the opening of the spring when a much larger emigration
                                    can be obtain[ed] than at present—for my Self I doubt not but with proper
                                    management the Potowatomies of Indiana and a large portion of them of 
                                        Michigan
                                     may be removed the next Season—You will be aware that some
                                    expense has been incured and in some instances I have had to furnish [manuscript
                                    illegible] funds to pay them out of my own means (which I have had frequently to do,
                                    the last sumer—the nature of the case not being such as to await the
                                    receptions of funds) —
                        I herewith transmit an abstract of those expences trusting that I will be furnished
                                    with funds to pay them the vouchers will be transmitted in due time in conformity
                                    with the regulations—
                        In conformity with the views of Mr. Polk I would most earnestly —but
                                    respectfully recomend the expediency of furnashing some Supplies to these Indians
                                    until they can be taken West—particularly those that have been ready and
                                    willing to emigrate if this is not done the 
                                    utmost extream of Suffring must be experianced by them this winter—the
                                    only means of subsubsistance [sic] they can look to is hunting and
                                    they have neither guns nor amunition sufficient for this—they raised no
                                    corn last sumer expecting to emigrate—I cannot but think that humanity
                                    and charity call imperiously for the adoption of the course suggested by Mr. Polk to
                                    give limited or rather indispencible supplies to these people for the winter with
                                    the understanding that they will emigrate so soon as required to do so charged to
                                    their accrueing annuities—this policy of course as reccomended by Mr.
                                    Polk will take them from under the influence of those villinous traders that have
                                    always stood in opposition to the views of the Goverment in this
                                    matter—and place them at once under the guardianship of their natural
                                    protectors the Goverment—I have taken the responcibility though
                                    unauthorised to order a very limited amount of supplies as has Judge Polk as will be
                                    seen by the extract from his letter herewith transmitted—which I trust
                                    the department will approve—and authorise payment—if otherwise
                                    Mr Polke and myself must be the loosers—You will also see that Mr Polk
                                    was constrained to becom security for Pash-po a chief of the party that proposed to
                                    emigrate to have him liberated from prison where he was confined for a debt
                                    contracted for supplies for his people—which supplies was necessary to
                                    enable them to hunt—for food for their families—if the payment
                                    refered to be authorised in every instance bills of particulars with prices
                                    anexed[?] will will [sic] be furnished so that no fraud or
                                    deception can be practiced on either the Goverment or the Indians—I will
                                    feel prepared to say that a liberal policy pursued towards these Indians such as is
                                    here suggested will do more as to their removal than any other course whatever that
                                    can be proposed—Under present circumstances it will not be necessary to
                                    furnish funds as required in a former communication to the department for emigration
                                    as it is to be pre-summed that an emigration can not now start until spring But it
                                    is extreamly desireable that funds be remitted to pay the expences incured
                        
                                    Very Respectfully Your Obt. Servt.
                                    Saml. Milroy Supt. ind.
                                
                        T Hartly Crawford Commr. Indian affairs Washington city
                     
                  
               
                
            William Polke to [Samuel Milroy] [ALS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Chippewa
                           
                                    Jan 14th 1840
                                
                        D sir
                        yours of the 4th Ins was Receiv[e]d on the 10th with you I much Regret that that
                                    [sic] the Department decline furnishing any supplies this winter tho I am not much
                                    Disappointed as such a Course might be Hereafter be used as a precedent to the
                                    embarasment of the Business of the Department they in forming Regulations in their
                                    offices at 
                                        Washington
                                     for the government of our Conduct in any Intercours[e] with Ignorant
                                    and wretched savages under the Influence of avaricio[u]s traders if I they cannot
                                    form they are not aware of the Difficulties we have to encounter and the necessity
                                    there is Sometimes  of using our sound
                                    Discression but it is gratifying our procedings has thus far been approved of in
                                    Respect in Respect to the proposed mission of [Reverend] mr Francis and my self I
                                    think it Indispensibly necessary to be underway as early as practicable before the
                                    Indians Disperse to thier Hunting Camp sugar Camps I have lately been advis[ed]
                                    Informed that Down the Kankake near the state line there is between 4 and five
                                    hundred [?] as there is a District of country in which there was a good oak most and
                                    Deer is there collected in abundance I think the proper course to be pursued in of
                                    so much Importance that before I goe we undertake the Business I had better have a
                                    personal Interview with you so many things is necessary to be taken into view that
                                    We cannot so well do arrange the plan by a Correspondence in which Case when which
                                    if you think necessary when you Receive the money to pay the Claims I will Come to
                                    see you at your office and you can prepare the proper Instructio[ns] and I can see
                                    the Different persons Rarron Robb &c and pay them and take their
                                    Rece[i]pts in proper form
                        as Respects the Claim against Pash po if it Rejected we must give him up at the
                                    spring court and let him Come out by Insolvent act on at any Rate they will not Keep
                                    him in Gaol when they find we will not assume the payment of the Debt
                        in Respect to mr Barrons Case I entirely agree with you that he cannot be trusted for
                                    anything or Relyed upon as Interpeter and were he away from the Indians we could do
                                    Better with out him hut situated as he is among them he could do much mischi[e]f
                                    were he now formally Dismissed from all and no hopes of being employed in the
                                    emigration the same may be said of T Robb & J truckey Indeed there is but
                                    few of those Indivi[d]uals who Reside with the Indians who have taken squaws as
                                    wives as much Eetter and it is net among not among the smallest of our Difficulties
                                    in our transactions with the Indians that we have to employ of necessity men in whom
                                    we have not full Confidence as Interpreters (more when I see you) I by this mail as
                                    you Requested suggest Informed mr francis of the proposed mission and Requested him
                                    to be in Readiness should you approve of the course suggested of paying you a visit
                                    write me a line on the Rece[i]pt of this and I will Immediately pay you a visit vi
                                    should you have Business at Legansport I would meet you at such time as you might
                                    Name
                        
                                    I am sir your obedient serv
                                    Wm Polke
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Samuel Milroy to William Polke [ALS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Delphi Ia
                           
                                    Jany. 21st 1840
                                
                        Dr Sir
                        It may not be improper to inform you that at this time Mr Barron and a party of the
                                    Potewatomies are hear, and as usual the object of this old man is to obtain
                                    something that the Department will not authorise—Pash-po is of the
                                    party—I read the letter to them that is herewith sent to you, so that
                                    they are informed—that they are not to be furnished with supplies for the
                                    winter—Old man Barron, and Pash-po, has had a violent
                                    quarrel—Pash-po accuses Barron with 
                                    appropriating the grater part of the goods that Vigus40 sued
                                    for, and imprisoned Pash-po for, to his own use. Old Barron as a matter of course
                                    denies it, the truth I doubt not is that Barron appropriated art] least a part of
                                    the goods to his own use—it is his nature so to do—I have came
                                    to the conclusion that it is too uncertain a buisiness to depend on this old man as
                                    interpreter, in making up the emigration, he will tell his own story and not that of
                                    those for whom he interprets—I will not yet say he ought to be
                                    dismised—but an other such deception or so, such as he has been caught at
                                    will procure that result—He may answer as interpreter
                                    on the route of emigration—but it would be very
                                    uncertain to employ him as a home interpreter more of this when I see
                                    you—I think it possible that we will obtain the payment of Pashipo debt
                                    but it was unfortunate that Barron and him got to quarrelling as to which had the
                                    use of the goods if it was intended to the Department, that the entire goods or any
                                    part of them had went to other, than the Potowatomies it would effectually defeat
                                    the payment of the debt—This old man, has been so accustomed to tricking,
                                    that it is dangerous for any one to have any thing to do with him—I
                                    Shamed him for living with the Indians and having a squaw for a wife so young that
                                    she is hardly grown, and also for having more than one
                                    wife—he said in extenuation, that he would give them up
                                        &c Enough of this, be so good as to write me, on the different
                                    subjects of this communication—
                        
                                    Your friend &c
                                    Saml Milroy
                                
                        
                                    William Polke Esqr
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Samuel Milroy to William Polke [ALS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Delphi Ia
                           
                                    February 1st 1840
                                
                        Dr Sir,
                        I hasten to communicate to you a copy of a letter I have received from the Indian
                                    Department you will see that the Commisioner request the suspension of the proposed
                                    Missions of yourself and the Rev Mr Francis—to the Potowatomies of
                                    Northerin Indiana for the Present—The commissioner has
                                    in operation measures for the same object—the result of which he wishes
                                    to see determined, before any other means are tryed—You will therefore
                                    have the goodness to inform the Rev. Mr Francis of the wishes of the Department in
                                    relation to this matter
                        Abram Burnet and a party of his people and others, head men, of bands, have just left
                                    my House—they were hear to learn of me the views of the Goverment as to
                                    thier removeal—they say that all thier several parties are willing to
                                    emigrate and the Goverment terms pleases them, and as to time of Starting, I told
                                    them that it was my wish to start a party so soon as their poneys could live in the
                                    Prires [sic]—say about the first of May—and
                                    if they had 
                              
                                 40 Jordan Vigus was born in 1792, in 
                                                Virginia
                                            , and moved to 
                                                Kentucky
                                             in 1810. After serving in the War of 1812, he moved to Corydon,
                                            Indiana, where he kept a tavern, opened a tailor shop, and served as a bank
                                            director. When 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             became the state capital, Vigus moved there and opened a
                                            tavern. In 1828, he moved to 
                                                Logansport
                                             where he became closely associated with 
                                                Tipton
                                            . Robertson and Riker, The John Tipton Papers,
                                            I, 169, note 11.
                           
                                     a successful journey they might arrive at their
                                    new homes, in time to plant some late corn, this view of the matter seemed to pleas
                                    them well—I informed Abram Rurnet, that he must look to you, for all
                                    information relative to emigration, as well the time of starting, as the place of
                                    rendezvous, that I would communicate with you and you would be in posession of all
                                    necessary information, after giving him at length the views of emigration agreeable
                                    to my instructions, I requested him to make them known to the Indians as extensively
                                    as he could, and I informed him that he would be employed in some suitable capacity
                                    in the emigration—and I would availe myself of his aid in collecting
                                    Indians to the rendezvous when the place of the same should be determined, I have
                                    thought it necessary, to inform you of this understanding; He informed me, that an
                                    individual, when absent with the last emigration broke open his house, and plundered
                                    it of $200 worth of property, for which a Suit is now pending in the 
                                        Fulton
                                     [County] circuit court, in relation to this suit, he requested me, to
                                        bespeake your attention in aid of his obtaining justice, he
                                    say, you understand all about it, and can meterially benefit him—I
                                    therefore present to you his request, and have to state that in my opinion it will
                                    be highly proper to see justice done in the case
                        I have received your letter of 28th ult relating to the Mare in posession of Mr More
                                    of 
                                        Rochester
                                    
                           41 I am not able to direct the course to be persued
                                    in this case—it is to be presumed that Mr More will be entilted
                                    [entitled] to pay for keeping of this creature, if he insists on it, and perhaps in
                                    this case it would be best to apprise the owner, of this claim, and doubtless he
                                    will direct its payment, if the demand is reasonable, if otherwise it, as in cases
                                    of estray animels, will have to be left to men to decide—in most of cases
                                    the use of a horse is worth its keeping—If you think it the best course,
                                    I would advise the writing to the owner, and have his authority to act for him,
                                    without making yourself liable for any thing, and I will further remark, that I will
                                    take it as a favour if you will manage this buisi-ness, with out my haveing to see
                                    to it; and further I do not see that I can do better with the case than you
                                    can—In any event, the keeping of the creture, must be paid for, if
                                    insisted on, as well as any other necessary expence, which must [manuscript torn]
                                    out of the owner—
                        I have the draft for the money to pay them the expense of last falls attempt at
                                    emigration, I must so soon as the money comes, find means to pay it to the several
                                    claimants—can you aid me in this matter, I can leave it at Tabers42 in 
                                        Logansport
                                     and git him to pay the money, and take the vouchers if the claimants
                                    can come there for their money—
                        Re pleased to write me when any thing of worth occurs as respects emigration
                                    &
                        
                                    Respectfully your friend &c
                                    Saml Milroy
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  41 Early in October, 1838, a mare had been stolen by some Potawatomi from
                        the Thomas Houghan residence near 
                     Springfield,
                                Illinois
                  . It had eventually been
                        taken to 
                            Rochester
                        , Indiana, where a Mr. More came into possession of the animal. Houghan had been
                        attempting to regain possession of the mare through Polke. Houghan to Polke,
                                
                     Springfield, Illinois
                  , November 27, 1839; and Polke to Houghan,
                        Chip-pewa, January 28, 1840. Both manuscripts are in The William Polke Collection.
               
                  42 See note 20.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Wm Polke Esqr
                        [Addressed] William Polke Esqr Postmaster Chipewa 
                                        Fulton County
                                    
                                    Indiana Delphi Ia. Feby 2 Free
                        [Endorsed] S milroy to [manuscript illegible] answered
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            William Polke to [Samuel Milroy] [ALS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Chippewa
                           
                                    Feb 4th 1840
                                
                        D sir
                        yours of the 11 Instant [February 1, 1840?] was Received it is fortunate that the
                                    letter from the Indian Department was Received previo[us] in time to prevent the
                                    proposed mission of mr Francis and my self and I trust that the arrangements in
                                    contemplation at the Department will be attended with the Desired and wished for
                                    success I am more than ever anxious to succeed with a good emigration early in the
                                    spring as the opposition at 
                                        Logansport
                                     still have thier [mine?] workers among the Indians I have lately learnt
                                    that Mr Taylor43 has made proposals to Robb and Trucky to employ
                                    them as you would not have the Removal of the Indians next year but that [t]he[y]
                                    should be employed but his efforts was not crowned with success I am truly glad
                                    Burnet has been to see you and you have Explained the views of government to him,
                                    under all the circumstances I do not think we can do Better than to give him
                                    Employment the case he named to you of the Indivi[d]uals Robbing his house is
                                    Correct and I think we have sufficient evidance to Recover the value the man has
                                    left these parts but I succeded in having him taken and got Bail before he left and
                                    have one of the Bist [sic] attorneys employed that attends our
                                    court and with pleasure will attend to the Business for him as I have thus far and
                                    hope we shall get a Judgment at the march court in Respect to the mare in mr mores
                                    possession I had previously written to the owner as you suggest and trust we shall
                                    be able to settle the Business amicably and satisfactory settled in Respect to the
                                    payment of the claims by mr Taber at logansport the only Difficulty in the way is
                                    that Rarron Robb and Trucky have been living on their the credit of thier money this
                                    winter on my Informing the persons they had some mony Coming to them and they have
                                    so many old debts at 
                                        Logansport
                                     that were they to go there for their mony the Honest needy settlers in
                                    thier Neighbourhood might be the loosers however I will if you will Inform me at
                                    what time the mony will be at mr Tabers I will endeavour to let those persons Know
                                    and attend with them and have the Business arranged you can Inform mr Taber to drop
                                    me a line when to attend
                        
                                    yours as ever
                                    Wm Polk
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  43 Henry Taylor [?] who had been an interpreter on the 1838 emigration.
                        Pepper to Harris, "Office of Superintendant Emigration of Indians, Forks
                        Wabash," September 6, 1838, in Robertson and Riker, The John Tipton
                        Papers, III, 696–697.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Lincoln's Herndon. By David Donald. (
                        New York
                    , Alfred A. Knopf, 1948, pp. xv, 392, xxiii. Illustrations, bibliography, and index.
                    $5.00.)
            For more than sixteen years William Henry Herndon was the law partner of Abraham Lincoln. During the
                    time of this intimate relationship, Herndon had an opportunity to observe Lincoln's rise
                    to political power and to know what his qualities were. Out of this advantageous position developed
                    one of the most controversial biographies in American historical writing. Herndon's Lincoln, finally published in 1889, has variously been described as
                    the product of the Civil War president's Boswell and as a gigantic mud-slinging project
                    to defame Lincoln's sacred reputation. Scholars have found it difficult to appraise
                    correctly this basic work in Lincolniana, for the maize of interpretations has been further
                    complicated by the mysticism and tradition that were built up around Lincoln himself.
            David Donald has undertaken this challenging task with great energy and ability. He has brought out a
                    valuable portrait of that irrepressible character in at least two views: Herndon as the law
                    associate and as the biographer of Lincoln. The result is not only the first book-length description
                    of the rampant, impulsive Herndon, but also an important side-light examination of Abraham Lincoln.
            Late in 1844 Herndon became the junior partner of the firm, Herndon and Lincoln, which until 1860 was
                    one of the foremost legal offices in 
                        Illinois
                    . It was the usual practice for Herndon to keep their crude, inadequate records and to
                    manage the office while the senior partner argued the important cases and traveled the Eighth
                    Judicial Circuit. In the opinion of many critics the partnership was a one-sided affair in which
                    Lincoln was saddled with a colleague of inferior talents. The plain fact that both men continued to
                    be satisfied with the arrangement is sufficient proof that such an estimate is faulty. Lincoln
                    indicated their solid friendship and mutual trust when he said: "Eilly and I never had the
                    scratch of a pen between us; we jest divide as we go along."
            In contrast to the close association between the two lawyers was the ever widening gap between them
                    in political  activity. This is not to be construed to mean that
                    they were not of similar mind as to most issues of the day, but it does mean that, as the fifties
                    wore on, Lincoln took Herndon less and less into his confidence in these matters. Herndon
                    participated in the anti-
                        Nebraska
                     battle, in the development of the 
                        Illinois
                     Republican party, and in the hot campaigns of 1856 and 1858. But Dr. Donald finds that
                    Herndon was no president-maker and that by 1860 he was definitely out of touch with the inner
                    councils of Lincoln's managers. The high priests of Republicanism correctly saw that
                    Herndon was too often indiscreet and impolitic.
            "Lincoln's death was the most important event in Herndon's
                    life," writes Dr. Donald. After 1865 Herndon became a famous man because of his one-time
                    association with the martyred president. In 1865 and 1866, Herndon devoted most of his time to
                    collecting facts about Lincoln from court records, newspapers, and interviews. The "Lincoln
                    Record," the compilation of these researches, was the source for Herndoll's
                    biography in 1889. In the intervening twenty-three years Herndon went through many trials: public
                    animosity for defiling the popular image of Lincoln, the débacle of the Ward H. Lamon
                    biography (ghost written by Chauncey F. Black from Herndon's "Lincoln
                    Record"), and pitiful personal poverty.
            It remained for a young man of 
                        Greencastle
                    , Indiana, to collaborate with Herndon in bringing into final form the book, Herndon's Lincoln. Jesse W. Weik did most of the writing while his
                    elder co-author furnished the information. The three-volume work that they produced is superbly
                    analyzed by Donald, who points out that Herndon was wrong about Lincolii's alleged
                    illegitimacy and irreligious nature, as well as about the much-discussed Ann Rutledge romance. He
                    does find, however, that Herndon contributed greatly to a down-to-earth understanding of his law
                    partner. Conclusive evidence is found in the fact that all students of Lincoln must know what
                    Herndon said. Now it will be imperative for them to know what Donald said.
            
               Indiana University Maurice G. Baxter
         
         
            
               Lincoln Under Enemy Fire. By John Henry Cramer. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    , Louisiana State University Press, 1948, pp. xv, 138. Illustrations, bibliography, and
                    index. $2.50.)
            
            This brief but well-written account of Lincoln watching the final repulse of Early's foray
                    on Washington on July 12, 1863, is of value both for the story it tells and for its critical
                    analysis of the growth of one of the Lincoln myths. It is a well-authenticated fact that Lincoln
                    visited Fort Stevens, and from it observed a minor military action. What developed is several
                    versions of the story recently given wide circulation by the late Alexander Woollcott, that Oliver
                    Wendell Holmes, Jr., ordered his commander in chief to "get down, you fool." The
                    author has examined, and in his book causes to pass in review, all the sources reflecting the
                    incident, making some additions to knowledge by citing some newly published materials.
            In so thoroughly covering a small item of the Lincoln story, Cramer has done Lincoln students a great
                    service by his detailed and objective chronicle of the growth of a myth. He is critical in his
                    approach. Possibly he should have been still more critical. For example, some of the stories have
                    Lincoln standing on top of a parapet, and one reports that Mrs. Lincoln stood beside him. It is, of
                    course, incredible that any woman stood there, and highly improbable that any civilian was on the
                    parapet's top. Azain, no narrator of the episode estimates a shorter range for the
                    Confederate sharpshooters than one thousand yards (no Confederate artillery was used in this phase);
                    only technically was Lincoln under fire. The author's critical standard, however, is
                    commendably high; other Lincoln scholars would do well to equal it. If some are more critical than
                    this, the crying need of objectivity at 
                        Lincoln
                     biography will be significantly advanced.
            The greatest usefulness in this worthwhile book is not in its determination of the ultimate
                    factuality of the story of Lincoln under enemy fire, but in its excellent illustration of the
                    criticism of one of the Lincoln stories. Effectively combining literary and historical criticism,
                    the author has probably produced a definitive study of his subject. In doing so he has shown how to
                    utilize a method which must be applied to many more such legends, no few of which are more important
                    than this one. It would contribute enormously to Lincoln research if Cramer and others would apply
                    the same techniques to remaining aspects of the Lincoln myth.
            
               University of 
                            Illinois
                            Chicago
                         Undergraduate Division Donald W. Riddle
         
         
         
            
               The Whig Party in 
                            Georgia
                        , 1825–1853. By Paul Murray. Volume XXIX, The James Sprunt Studies in History and Political Science. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    , University of North Caroline Press, 1948, pp. vii, 219. Maps, bibliography, and index.
                    $1.25.)
            This work deals with the evolution and organizing tactics of a political group which between 1825 and
                    1853 was "known successively as the Troup Party, the State Rights Party, the State
                    Rights-Whig Party, and the Whig Party in 
                        Georgia
                    ." The latter appellation was not assumed until 1843. The leaders of the group,
                    to whom much attention is devoted, were generally men of unusual intelligence and of more than
                    average means.
            Through a maze of detail and confusion, the author follows the fortunes of the party in both the
                    state and federal theaters of political action. Much of its strength resulted from shrewdly taking
                    advantage of the mistakes of its opponents in matters of state policy. The Whigs were insistent upon
                    economy, a safe currency and a sound banking system; the experiments of the Democrats or Unionists,
                    as they were frequently called in the 1830's, seemed at times inconsistent with the
                    attainment of these objectives.
            Though fundamentally a state rights and an anti-Jackson group in the 1830's the 
                        Georgia
                     Whigs during the 1840's were integrated with a great national party, the
                    economic program of which was scarcely in accord with state rights. The author explains this
                    integration, in large part, in terms of the bona fide acceptance, under changed or changing
                    conditions, of that program; the reviewer feels, however, that the point has been overemphasized and
                    that the desire to avoid sectionalization of parties and to secure the fruits of victory have not
                    received sufficient emphasis.
            The disintegration of the party is admirably analyzed. The satisfactory settlement of principal state
                    issues that had served Whig purposes; the tension with Northern Whigs over the slavery question; the
                    dissatisfaction with President Taylor's policy; the disruptive effects of Democratic
                    strategy in 
                        Georgia
                    ; the abortive efforts to form a new party; all of these factors are woven into the
                    disintegrating pattern.
            The bibliography seems adequate, and the narrative is remarkably free from errors.
            
               The 
                            Ohio
                         State University Henry H. Simms
         
         
         
            
               The Southern Country Editor. By Thomas D. Clark. (
                        Indianapolis
                    , Bobbs-Merrill, 1948, pp. 365. Facsimiles, bibliography, and index. $3.50.)
            In his earlier Rampaging Frontier and Pills, Petticoats and
                    Plows, able historian Thomas D. Clark proved that the way of life of a people can be pictured
                    in minute detail by retelling the tales they told and the pranks they played, or, in the latter
                    book, by describing the things they bought at the country store, why they bought them and
                    how—if ever—they paid for them. In his present work he demonstrates that
                    infinitely more can be learned of their life by scanning the newspapers they read.
            A Mississippian by birth, Dr. Clark is head of the Department of History at the University of
                    Kentucky. He knows the South, from its backcountry farms to its great universities, as he knows its
                    people high and low, and he is rapidly gaining recognition as the leading historian of the region.
            Dr. Clark's scholarship is sound and his research infinitely painstaking; better still,
                    for the purpose of interpreting his subject, he has a keen sense of humor and the patience with the
                    vagaries of his fellow man which social historians too often lack.
            In The Southern Country Editor he has made a fast moving, readable, and
                    thought-provoking survey of the editorial content of hundreds of Southern newspapers which shows
                    what editors preferred to write and their patrons to read during the years since 1865. The study is
                    based exclusively upon country weeklies—entirely proper since the South was and is mainly
                    a land of rural and small town readers.
            The evidence he presents goes a long way toward discovering the reasons for what has been good and
                    what has been ill in the Southland. Members of the morbid current school of Southern novelists might
                    save themselves some of the anguish of their endless soul-searching by skimming through his chapters
                    "The Southern Mind in Thralldom," "Children of Freedom,"
                    "The Day Goes by Like a Shadow on the Heart," "In the Wake of
                    Time," and "Between the Plow Handles of Experience."
            Dr. Clark claims importance for the country weekly because of the very fact of its provincialism. Its
                    editor made  little or no effort to publish other than local news
                    up to World War I—this held true even in presidential election years because, under the
                    one-party system, the presidential vote was assured and only the gubernatorial contest and the even
                    more interesting ones for county representative, sheriff, judge, and prosecuting attorney provoked
                    local interest. Thus, concentrating upon acceptable news in a locality interested mainly in local
                    affairs, the editor either published what the people wished to read or he failed: if a paper
                    continued publication, its readers opinions were, perforce, reflected in its columns and an analysis
                    of newspaper content demonstrates trends of thought in various districts through the passing years.
            Although Dr. Clark makes no unscholarly effort to prove the point, his book conveys an impression
                    which is at least new to this reader. It is that the most deep-seated ill to which the South is heir
                    developed after reconstruction; that it was an ill of the spirit rather than of the flesh which
                    first became acute when the seceded states found themselves back in full standing in the Union but
                    bewildered and hurt in hitherto high pride; that recovery became hopeful only with the appearance of
                    elusive symptoms when the North and South joined in waging the minor Spanish-American War and that
                    actual recuperation did not begin until 1917 brought the broadening influence of universal military
                    service to its young men.
            The evidence seems to point to this late-developed psychological manifestation, even more than to the
                    facts of the dire war-produced poverty of 1865 and the evil doings of carpetbaggers, as the agent
                    which induced sullen reaction to all change, all progress; which held back efforts to improve
                    education, agriculture, and local government and tended to substitute such morbid interests as that
                    in crimes of violence, in hangings, and in the fire-and-brimstone elements of Holy Writ.
            The chronology of the material quoted indicates that the agrarian South began to feel sorriest for
                    itself not after Appomattox but after Grant's administration; that it lived most
                    precariously not under carpetbagger rule but when, between 1885 and 1905, its own law-enforcement
                    system was at lowest efficiency.
            Present newspaper content, judged by the same standards  as that
                    of the past, indicates a current improvement as healthful and a future as hopeful in proportion as
                    it was dismal fifty years ago: the country paper, bolstered by a power press and a linotype machine,
                    continues as a more efficient prophet of further improvement.
            That part of the work devoted to the mechanics of editing, printing, and financing a country weekly
                    is as applicable to North, East, and West as to the South—tramp printers, type lice,
                    "patent insides," slow-paying subscribers, belligerent subjects of news items and
                    persons with a passion for publicity were evils common to all localities. There is also a general
                    chapter of enlightening information upon the power which the patent medicine industry wielded in the
                    newspaper field before the Pure Food and Drugs Act broke its grip; that chapter, by typical Clark
                    touch, is titled "Go Tell Aunt Lydia!"
            
               The Southern Country Editor is an important document; one which should set off
                    special study upon a good many phases of Southern social and economic problems through what has been
                    the rather lightly-regarded medium of the county weekly newspaper files.
            
               
                  
                            Crawfordsville
                        , Indiana Richard E. Banta
         
         
            
               The Agrarian Revolt in Western 
                            Canada
                        , A Survey Showing American Parallels. By Paul F. Sharp. (
                        Minneapolis
                    , University of Minnesota Press, 1948, pp. ix, 204. Bibliography and index.
                    $3.00.)
            The scope of this volume is indicated in its subtitle A Survey showing American
                        Parallels. Mr. Sharp claims that the story of the North American West has not been told as
                    a whole, and quotes Professor A. L. Burt to show that it "has often been approached with a
                    national bias which ignores the parallel development of regions divided by a political
                    boundary." This study successfully attempts to trace the parallel agrarian movements in the
                    American and Canadian Wests and to indicate the close connection between them. It fills a long felt
                    want.
            When the so-called "passing of the frontier" took place in the United States in the
                    last decade of the nineteenth century, the stream of settlement turned north to 
                        Canada
                    .  Until the best lands in 
                        Minnesota
                    , the Dakotas, and eastern 
                        Montana
                     had been taken up, there was no real inducement for Americans to come to the Canadian
                    prairies. After 1896 the great immigration to the open spaces of the Canadian West began. From the
                    British Isles, the continent of Europe, eastern 
                        Canada
                     and the American Middle West, the homeseekers came in ever increasing numbers until the
                    outbreak of the First World War in 1914. In 1906 two new provinces, Saskatchewan and Alberta, were
                    carved out of the North West Territories. By 1914 it was estimated that one million Americans had
                    come to the Canadian prairies.
            These American settlers were very popular in 
                        Canada
                    . They brought capital with them and they understood prairie conditions. As a rule they
                    were successful, but they found that they no longer enjoyed the protection of the American tariff
                    and that they "had moved from a national economy to an international economy which relied
                    upon imported capital for its development and upon a world market for the sale of its only
                    commodity." Many of them had taken part in agrarian movements in the United States and were
                    as distrustful as ever of eastern capitalists. They were soon complaining of the domination, not of
                    Wall Street, but of St. James Street, Montreal.
            With meticulous care Mr. Sharp points out that the agrarian revolt in Western 
                        Canada
                     was not merely a northward extension of the American movements but that it arose in 
                        Canada
                     because of the similarity of the agrarian problems existing in the two countries. It is
                    true that many of the leaders were Americans by birth, but others were Canadians or immigrants from
                    the British Isles. The charge was commonly made that the leaders were "American
                    agitators," but such was not the case.
            Mr. Sharp traces, step by step, the progress of the farmers' movements in 
                        Manitoba
                    , Saskatchewan and Alberta. He stresses the importance of the Grain Growers
                        Guide, founded in 1908, and of the Grain Growers Grain Company, the United Farmers of
                    Alberta, the United Farmers of 
                        Manitoba
                    , and the co-operative movements. Although the Non-partisan League spread from the
                    United States to 
                        Canada
                     during the First World War, its success was merely temporary. The great agrarian revolt
                    of the 1920's with its farmers' parties and its wheat pools sprang from the
                    soil  of the Canadian prairies. The outstanding leaders were
                    Canadian rather than former Americans. The Progressive party which threatened for a time to disturb
                    the balance of the "old-line" national political parties in the end coalesced with
                    the Liberals under W. L. MacKenzie King, but its place was taken in the 1930's by the
                    Co-operative Commonwealth Federation, the C.C.F., a former labor-socialist combination which is
                    still a potent force in Canadian politics.
            Taken all in all, Mr. Sharp has done his work competently and thoroughly. The volume is well
                    documented, its style is straight-forward and interesting, the bibliography and the index are both
                    adequate. It is a good study, by an American scholar, of the agrarian movement on the Canadian
                    prairies. Let us hope that it is only the first of many publications from his pen.
            
               The Univeristy of British Columbia Walter N. Sage
         
         
            
               The 
                            Maryland
                         Germans, A History. By Dieter Cunz. (
                  Princeton, New Jersey
               ,
                    Princeton University Press, 1948, pp. xi, 476. Illustrations, map, appendix, bibliography, and
                    index. $5.00.)
            Professor Cunz has divided the history of the 
                        Maryland
                     Germans into three parts, part one covering the colonial period, 1640–1790;
                    part two, the middle ages of immigration, 1790–1865; and part three, the last
                    generations, 1865–1940. This appears to be a good division and each section has been ably
                    dealt with by the author.
            To the scholar interested in German immigration, this study should be of considerable appeal since
                    "In no other Middle Atlantic state save Pennsylvania did the Germans play a more important
                    part than in 
                        Maryland
                    ."
            German names appeared in the documents of the Calvert Colony as early as 1640. The first group of
                    German immigrants for America, however, did not arrive until October 6, 1683, when the
                    "Cancord" sailed into the port of 
                        Philadelphia
                    . Under the leadership of Franz Daniel Pastorius this group had been attracted to
                    America by William Penn. The number of German immigrants at first was insignificant, but between
                    1730 and 1740 "the first wave of German  mass
                    immigration set in." They penetrated into the backwoods of Pennsylvania and many drifted
                    into the colony of 
                        Maryland
                    . They were bound to the soil and devoted to their church. Concentrated German
                    settlements such as 
                        Frederick
                     and 
                        Hagerstown
                     in western 
                        Maryland
                     were established.
            Before the American Revolution the Germans displayed little interest in public affairs, but this war
                    furnished "the vehicle upon which the German rode into the previously forbidden territory
                    of local and state politics."
            The German element in 
                        Maryland
                     made its most important contribution after the Revolution in the field of printing. Of
                    the daily papers the Correspondent, a Democratic paper, and the Wecker, a Republican paper, were the most widely read.
            While the Germans had no part in the founding of 
                        Baltimore
                    , they did play an important role in the development of that city. Many German clubs
                    appeared during the decades after 1840 in 
                        Baltimore
                    . Some catered to the social interests, others were geared on an intellectual level, and
                    the Turnverein emphasized physical development. The musical clubs were very important in the life of
                    the Germans, and the "Sangerfest" has been universally identified with them.
            Sketches of outstanding personages in 
                        Maryland
                     appear throughout the book, but one man in particular should be mentioned.
                    "What Carl Schurz is for the Americans of German descent on the whole, Carl Heinrich
                    Schnauffer is for the German element in 
                        Maryland
                    ; he is the personification and symbol of the great and eternal spirit of
                    1848."
            Professor Cunz has also devoted a number of pages to an excellent description of the Amish. The
                    illustrations by Mrs. Hilde Foss deserve special mention and add to the value of the book.
            The author, an associate professor of German at the University of Maryland, is to be congratulated on
                    this study. It is well documented. The bibliography and the material in the appendix, especially on
                    the German-American Businessmen and German-American Newspapers in 
                        Baltimore
                    , greatly enhance the importance of the book.
            It is to be regretted that the author made such frequent use of the pronoun "we"
                    throughout the volume. On page 279 in a short paragraph of seven and a half lines
                    "we" appears four times. The pronouns "us" and
                    "our" also  appear but not so frequently. The
                    contraction "48ers" does not improve the appearance of the page.
            
               Indiana University Elfrieda Lang
         
         
            
               The Poems of Max Ehrmann. Edited by Bertha K. Ehrmann. (
                        Boston
                    , Bruce Humphries, Inc., 1948, pp. v, 183. $3.00.)
            
               The Poems of Max Ehrmann, a compact little book of rhymed- and prose-verse,
                    reflects social and political crises in recent American life and includes meditations on the beauty
                    and serenity of the outdoor world and on man's search for values which attained stimulate
                    to further intellectual and spiritual restlessness. There is wisdom in the book—wisdom
                    garnered from a lifetime of sensitive response to a variety of experiences—wisdom
                    characteristic of a high prudence that has learned to evaluate the physical and the ideal, doubt and
                    faith, matter and spirit.
            Throughout the work are echoes now and then of Whitman, Wordsworth, the Bible. "I See There
                    Is a Good Deal of Grandiloquence" is reminiscent of "I Hear It Was Charged against
                    Me." Part II of "My Native City," especially the lines, "O my
                    native city! thou knowest not how often I have thought of thee when far away. When I have wandered
                    amid other scenes, and other men and women and children have passed by me, fondly have I thought of
                    thee," has the prose form and shares the pathos of the 137th Psalm, with phrasing that
                    suggests Wordsworth's 
                        How oft in spirit, have I turned to thee, O sylvan Wye! thou wanderer through the woods, How
                            often has my spirit turned to thee!
                    
                
            "A Prayer" has been compared for simplicity and majesty to the thirteenth chapter
                    of First Corinthians.
            The chief themes are the tranquilizing serenity and beauty of the outdoors, the charm and depth and
                    promise of love, social injustice, the tragic aspects of war, the worth of the ideal, even when it
                    seems fated for disillusionment, the value of faith and spirit.
            I have remarked on the wisdom of the book. The main question that now confronts us concerns the
                    ability of Mr. Ehrmann to transform that wisdom to poetry. He is a far  cry from those of our young poets who insist on obscurity, who refuse
                    to be lucid for fear of being obvious and banal, but who mistakenly attain their obscurity from
                    incoherent expression, freedom from the restraint of design, and the use of exotic, dissociated
                    images rather than from philosophic depth and from that right collocation of right words, which
                    exhales an unidentifiable essence of mystery, wonderment, and profundity. In contrast to their
                    too-frequently-unreadable productions I think of the simple utterance in Emily
                    Dickinson's "New Feet about My Garden Go," of Robert Frost's
                    in "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening," and of Frances Frost's in
                    "Atlantic Lullaby," each deep like a well where the water is clear but the bottom
                    unseen.
            Mr. Ehrmann's verse has the distinction of being always clearly written. But it fails
                    frequently in overtones—in a stimulating suggestiveness. It does not often enough excite
                    the intellect and emotions with what is only implicit. By telling too much it does not tell enough;
                    it neglects utilizing to capacity the reader's imagination. One is aware of the
                    distinction I attempt if he reads Mr. Ehrmann's "Dream of Youth" and
                    then turns to Ben Johnson's "To Celia." In the former,
                    youth's dream is set out explicitly; in the latter, the reader is momentarily the youth
                    ecstatically dreaming. And would not "Simple Fishermen" be a better poem if the
                    thought of the last two lines were left for the reader to supply? One gets the impression at times
                    that the author feels his convictions so strongly that he cannot dissociate himself from them to
                    view them objectively, as the artist must. Didacticism, at times, results and the sacrifice of what
                    might have come of finer artistry. The compositions which seem to me freest of the fault are
                    "Wanderers," "The Old Philosopher," and "The Dead
                    Wife."
            My pointing out what seems to me a weakness in much of this work of Mr. Ehrmann, would not, I
                    believe, have had his disapproval. He had the courageous modesty to write in one quatrain: 
                        Oh, that in youth but once could I have sung a song that held The magic music of my soul,
                            which ever inward welled Against my tuneless lips! I sit alone and know the truth With
                            broken harp beside the ashes of my youth.
                    
                
            
               Indiana University Frank Davidson
         
         
         
            
               John M'Coy, His Life and His Diaries. By Elizabeth Hayward. (
                        New York
                    , The American Historical Company, 1948, pp. xvi, 493. Illustrations and index.
                    $5.00.)
            By the extensive use of family papers and a day-to-day diary kept by the subject,
                    1842–1858, Mrs. Hayward tells the life story of a typical early citizen of Indiana. John
                    M'Coy was born near the site of George Washington's Fort Necessity in 1782 and
                    was brought by his family to 
                        Kentucky
                     in his seventh year. There he grew to manhood and in 1803 married a young woman of the
                    neighborhood. A year later, after the birth of their first child, the couple became pioneer settlers
                    on the Indiana shore of the 
                        Ohio
                    . At first M'Coy rented, then purchased a tract in the 
                        Illinois
                     Grant—those lands which 
                        Virginia
                     had granted to George Rogers Clark and the veterans of the Revolutionary conquest of
                    southern 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                     in lieu of more negotiable reimbursement for the just debts contracted in the course of
                    the campaign.
            John M'Coy (he affected that spelling) was a brother of Isaac McCoy, the Baptist
                    missionary to the Indians and one of the truly great and good men of the Midwest frontier. John was
                    himself an ardent Baptist and obviously an admirer of his brother Isaac and the work among the
                    Indians: unfortunately he lacked the foresight to include in his voluminous writings on family
                    affairs any considerable amount of information on Isaac's life which he certainly
                    possessed and which might have made a valuable contribution to the great missionary's
                    memory. Rather, throughout the three hundred and twenty printed pages covered by the diary and its
                    editor's notes, John M'Coy reports chiefly such commonplaces as the state of
                    his health and of the weather, his purchases and his expenditures, his taking of pills, attendance
                    at preachings, the comings and going of members of his. family and the workings of the prized McCoy
                    family madstone.
            John M'Coy was apparently a plain citizen of that solid sort who contributed most to the
                    development of the Middle West: a good man, neither great nor with aspirations to greatness, he went
                    his way providing for his family, serving his neighbors and working in his church. His first travel
                    was by flatboat to 
                        Kentucky
                    , under constant threat of Indian attack, in 1789; his last extensive trip was by
                    railroad from  Bennettsville to 
                  Greencastle, Terre
                    Haute
               , and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , three decades after the last of the Indians had straggled west from the Ohio
                        Valley. His was a period of almost inconceivable change but he suffered the common
                    lack which marks all but a handful of diarists: the inability to distinguish between significant and
                    insignificant incidents at the time of their occurrence.
            Mrs. Hayward, great-great-granddaughter of her subject, has produced an extensive and workmanlike
                    documentation and annotation for the material she presents.
            
               
                  
                            Crawfordsville
                        , Indiana Richard E. Banta
         
         
         
            The Editor's Pages
            Since histories of Indiana are out of print, teachers and students of the Hoosier State are often
                    hard pressed for suitable reading material and sources of information. It may be helpful, therefore,
                    to mention some of the historical material that is available. Many of the Publications of the Indiana Historical Society are for sale at the office of the society. The
                    same is true of the Collections of the Indiana Historical Bureau. Recently the
                    society has published a small pamphlet written by Donald F. Carmony and Howard H. Peckham which
                    contains a brief sketch of the state's history. The second edition, which may be secured
                    free, has better suggestions for additional readings than the first edition. The past issues of the
                        Indiana Magazine of History contain articles and documents about Indiana and
                    the Middle West. The supply of the earlier volumes is now exhausted and the editor would gladly buy
                    copies of many of the earlier issues in order to resell them to some of the larger libraries which
                    do not have a complete file of the Magazine. Most of the issues since 1924 are for
                    sale by the editor, the more plentiful at 50¢ per number or $2.00 per volume,
                    the less plentiful at $1.00 or $1.50 per number. A special discount will be
                    given to libraries on the more plentiful issues when larger orders are placed.
            The Indiana University Bookstore, 
                        Bloomington
                    , and Richard E. Banta of 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , have a number of copies of Logan Esarey's The Indiana
                    Home, which may be purchased for $3.00. This is the last printing of this work and
                    when the supply is exhausted it will be impossible to buy more except on the rare book market.
            The Mississippi Valley Historical Association's annual meeting will
                    be held in 
                  Madison, Wisconsin
               , April 14, 15, and 16. Indiana has generally been well
                    represented at these annual meetings and this year should not be an exception. The program committee
                    is arranging an attractive series of meetings and discussions. Reservations should be made
                    immediately in order to secure the more desirable accommodations. The Loraine Hotel is the
                    headquarters, but the Belmont  and the Park hotels are nearby. We
                    hope that many from Indiana will attend this meeting.
            Any one interested in becoming a member of the Mississippi Valley Historical
                    Association may send a checli for five dollars to 
                        Miss Elfrieda Lang Indiana Magazine of History Indiana University 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana
                     and she will forward the application to the secretary of the association. Membership
                    entitles a subscriber to the 
                  Mississippi Valley Historical
                    Review.
            The spring meeting of the Indiana Historical Society will be held in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     sometime early in May. Watch the Indiana History Bulletin for the
                    time of the meeting.
            The editor wishes to thank the following persons who very kindly contributed their March, 1948,
                    copies of the Indiana Magazine of History: Forman Knowles, J. H. Meredith, Ura
                    Sanders, and Mary B. Winston. We could use additional copies of this issue since the demand exceeds
                    the supply available.
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            Rogers-Ward-Shipman and Allied Families (Cont'd)
            Contributed by Harold I. Meyer, Mrs. Sylvan L. Mouser, and Mrs. Voris R. Norton*
            
            
               VIII 1 Eliza Wise, dau. of VII, 1; b. Mason Co., Ky.; m. 3–1–1821, John
                        Wheeler; r. 
                     St. Louis, Mo.
                  
               
               2 Ann Wise, dau. of VII, 1; b. Mason Co., Ky., 1802; d. 2–6–1852,
                                
                     St. Louis, Mo.
                  , buried Bellefontaine Cem.; m. Mason Co., Ky.,
                        5–13–1823, Edward Dobyns; children: a, Joseph S., b, 
                            Milton
                        , c, Mary Ann (Molly).
               3 Lydia Wise, dau. of VII, I; b. 7–17–1803, Ky.; r.
                                
                     St. Louis, Mo.
                  , and 
                     St.
                                Joseph, Mo.
                  ; d.
                        10–22–1865; m. 10–17–1822, John Dorsey Burgess;
                        children: a, Sarah, b, Eliza, c, Mary, d, Abbie, e, Thomas J., f, Joshua Kate,** g, John W., h, James E., i, 
                            Clay
                        , j, Frances, k, Charles W. (For rest of descent see D.A.C. Lineage Book 6, p. 233,
                        #5,665 under Burgess, Chew, and Dorsey lines.)
               4 Thomas Jefferson Wise, Sr., s. of VII, 1; b. Mason Co., Ky.,
                        1–19–1806; r. Marion Co., Mo., Marion Co., 
                            Kans.
                        , and 
                     St. Louis, Mo.
                  ; d. 10–21–1875,
                        Marion Co., 
                            Kans.
                        ; m. 1st 
                     New London, Mo.
                  , 10–29–1828, Maria
                        Jane Briggs, b. Warren Co., Ky., 6–20–1810, d.
                        12–17–1834, Marion Co., Mo., a desc. of Briggs-Wroe family of Westmoreland
                        Co., Va., and Nelson Co., Ky.; children: a, William, b, Mary Jane, c, Eliza; m. 2nd Mrs.
                        Gabriella Hall Poague, widow, d. 9–23–1872, aged 56 yrs., 1 mo., 2 days;
                        children: d, Thomas Jefferson Jr., e, Maggie Hall, f, Charles Washington, g, Abbie A., h,
                        Gabriella S., i, John S.
               5 Abigail S. Wise, dau. of VII, 1; 5–12–1810, Mason Co., Ky.; d. Marion
                        Co., 
                            Kans.
                        , 2–21–1896; m. 
                     St.
                            Louis, Mo.
                  ,
                        4–24–1834, John M. Wimer, d. 1–11–1863, while Lt.
                        Col. for Confederacy in Civil War, had been Postmaster and Mayor of 
                            St. Louis
                        ; children: a, William W., b, John W.
               6 Priscilla Wise, dau. of VII, 1; b. 1816; d. 2–4–1904; m. 1st Mason
                        Co., Ky., 7–19–1834, Ransom Jones; no children; m. 2nd Rev. Joseph Patton;
                        had children: m. 3rd Robert Kemp; r. 
                            St. Louis
                         and Reedsville, Mo.
               7 William D. Wise, s. of VII, 1; b. Mason Co., Ky.; d. 5-?-1833, Marion Co., Mo.; unmarried.
               8 John S. Wise, s. of VII, 1; b. 2–4–1823, Mason Co., Ky.; d.
                        12–11–1880, Council Grove, 
                            Kans.
                        ; m. 1st 12–2–1844, Mary 
                     
                        * Harold I. Meyer is a doctor in 
                           Chicago, Illinois
                        ; Mrs. Sylvan L. Mouser (née Evelyn Mae
                                Shipman) is a resident of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana; and Mrs. Voris R. Norton (née Marjorie Nell Downing)
                                is a resident of 
                           New London, Missouri
                        .
                     
                        ** Kate is not an error for his middle name.
                                It really was Kate.
                  
                         Ann Piggott, 
                            St. Louis
                        ; m. 2nd 10–21–1855, Caroline Taylor, b.
                        10–5–1838, Buchanan Co., Mo., d. 3–8–1865 (left
                        desc. in Calif. and Wash.); children: a, John Wimer, b, Julia Elva, c. Lillie S., d, 
                            Milton
                        , e, William; m. 3rd 6–16–1867, Sarah Ann Radcliff
                        (Radcliffe), b. 4–30–1843, Prince William Co., Va., d.
                        9–15–1927, 
                     Kansas City,
                                Mo.
                  ; children: f, Edward S., g,
                        Rufus R., h, Minnie Belle, i, Alice A., j, Walter W., k, Claude S.
               9 John Shipman, s. of VII, 21; b. 4–11–1808, 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ; r. Hancock Co., Ind., 1838, a tailor with father; d.
                        8–28–1902, 
                            Knightstown
                        , Ind., buried Glencove Cem.; m. 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ,
                        8–20–1837, Sarah B. Gaines, b. 11–4–1811, d. c.
                        1898; children: a, Sarah J., b, Albert, c, Ralph.
               10 Hampton Shipman, s. of VII, 21; b. 1818, 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ; d.
                        10–25–1865, 
                            Springfield
                        , buried G. A. R. plot, Ferncliff Cem.; m. 1st Margaret A. West,
                        11–4–1841, 
                            Springfield
                        ; m. 2nd 5–12–1862, Frances Dutro, 
                            Springfield
                        ; no known children.
               11 David Shipman, s. of VII, 21; 3–6–1820, 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ; r. 
                            Wayne
                         Twp., Henry Co., Ind., 1843; d. 11–3–1890, 
                            Knightstown
                        , Ind.; m. 1st Mary Tiller, 11–15–1846, 
                            Knightstown
                        , b. 10–4–1825, d. 10–17–1882, 
                            Knightstown
                        ; children: a, Clara, b, Ida, c, Rose, d, Beatrice; m. 2nd Mrs. Ellen Lincoln
                        Fleming, 11–19–1884, Henry Co., Ind., b. c. 1848, d.
                        1–26–1925 age 77; children: e, Roy David. (Ellen m. 3rd Wallace Deem,
                        Henry Co., Ind.)
               12 Howard Shipman, s. of VII, 21; r. 
                            Cleveland
                        , Ind. (originally known as 
                            Portland
                        ); m. 1st Elselen Williams 7–11–1839, Hancock Co., Ind.; m.
                        2nd Elizabeth Williams 9–23–1849, Henry Co., Ind.; no known children.
               13 Angeline Shipman, dau. of VII, 21; b. after 1811; m. 10–31–1823,
                        Anthony P. Faust, 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ; r. Jackson Twp., Hancock Co., Ind.; no
                        known children.
               14 Israel Shipman, s. of VII, 21; b. c. 1809; r. Jackson Twp., Hancock Co., Ind.; m.
                        9–28–1833, Mary Scott, 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ;
                        children: a, William H., b, James J., c, Edward, d, Catherine, e, Elizabeth, (last two may be
                        same), f, Alice A., g, Margaret A., h, Josiah W., i, Charles M., j, Lucy M., k, Israel A., 1,
                        John.
               15 Maria J. Shipman (presumed to be dau. of VII, 21); in. 3–19–1857,
                        Edward T. Holloway, 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  .
               16 Joseph W. Shipman, s. of VII, 23; b. 11–14–1817, 
                            Ohio
                        ; d. 1845, 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ; m. 4–20–1837,
                        Sarah Ann Hawkins, 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ; children: a, Clark. (Sarah Ann m. 2nd
                        6–16–1844, John Wissinger, 
                            Springfield
                        .)
               17 Anna A. Shipman, dau. of VII, 23; b. 7–8–1819, 
                            Ohio
                        .
               18 John Ambler Shipman, s. of VII, 23; b. 8–11–1829,
                                
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ; d. 6–2–1901, 
                            Springfield
                        , buried Ferncliff Cem., m. 12–22–1859, Fanny Grant, dau. of
                        William Grant, Jr.; children: a, Anne, b, 
                            Warren
                        , c, Earl M.
               
               19 Adeline Cornogg, dau. of VII, 24; b. 11–16–1816; d.
                        3–6–1863, 
                     Springfield,
                                Ohio
                  ; m.
                        9–6–1832, Benjamin H. Rogers, d. 12–5–1871,
                                
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  , s. of Henry and Susannah Rogers; children: a, Henry
                        Clay, b, Rachel Jane (Jennie), c, Ida.
               20 Elizabeth Watson, dau. of VII, 25; b. 1818; d. 1903; 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ; m.
                        Grover Green, 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  , b. 1809, d. 1899; children: a, Belle, b, Theron, c,
                        Ida.
               21 Thurza D. Watson, dau. of VII, 25; b. 5–6–1820; d.
                        4–1–1902, 
                     Springfield,
                                Ohio
                  , buried Ferncliff Cem.; m.
                        11–14–1843, Dr. Aaron Teegarden, 
                            Springfield
                        , b. 7–16–1808; d. 8–16–1874, 
                            Springfield
                        , buried Ferncliff; children: a, Sarah, b, William, c, Adeline, d, Thurza, e,
                        Watson, f, Elizabeth.
               22 Henry Doty, s. of VII, 30; d. after 1818.
               23 Phebe Anne Doty, dau. of VII, 30; m. John Drake, s. of Elkanah Drake; children: a, Horace
                        Jones, b, Sally.
               24 John Shipman Doty, s. of VII, 30; m. Budgette Kanerson, dau. of Michael; children: a,
                        Nelson, b, Eugene.
               25 Marquis Doty, s. of VII, 30; m. Henrietta Williamson.
               26 Amanda Frazee, dau. of VII, 32; b. 1829; d. 1856; m. 10–17–1844,
                        Josephus Test, New Hope, 
                            Ohio
                        , b. 1821, d. 4–28–1865, in Sultana
                        explosion; children: a, Mary, b, Sarah, c, John Frazee, d, Amanda.
               27 John R. Beeson, s. of VII, 49; b. 1830, Ft. Wayne, Ind.; d. 1890, Patoka, Ind.; m.
                        12–22–1853, Vanderburgh Co., Ind., Eliza Jane Sidden, b. 1834, d. 1895,
                        Patoka; children: a, David, b, Louisa, c, Elizabeth, d, Caroline, e, John, f, James.
               28 Lewis Holcomb, s. of VII, 51; b. 11–30–1844; d.
                        4–10–1866, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; m. —?; no children.
               29 
                            Warren
                         Holcomb, s. of VII, 51; b. 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; r. left home as young man.
               30 Jennie Bell Lovall, dau. of VII, 51; b. 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; d. 3–6–1874; m. Oliver Tustison
                        10–20–1868, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; no children. (Oliver m. 2nd Clara Dell Rogers, see VIII, 67.)
               31 Samuel Brenton Lovall, s. of VII, 51; b. 8–4–1854, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; d. 5–16–1921, Hopkins, Mich.; m. 1st Harriett
                        —?; no children; m. 2nd Anna Cerena Miller 8–16–1887, b.
                        1–24–1865, 
                            New Haven
                        , d. 3–17–1938, Hopkins, Mich.; children: a, Harlie Brenton,
                        b, Burl Roy.
               32 Anna Eliza Lovall (called Lyda), dau. of VII, 51; b. 6–21–1857, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; d. 5–28–1930; m. 7–3–1879, Allen
                        Co., Ind., Francis Harrison Frisby, b. 6–18–1857, d.
                        1–31–1934; children: a, Iona, b, Roger Lovall, c, Jennie Bell, d, Ethlan
                        Candis, e, Frances Dettie.
               33 Sarah Jane Brown, dau. of VII, 62; b. 12–4–1833; d.
                        3–17–1852; unmarried.
               34 Allen Brown, s. of VII, 52; b. 11–15–1835; d.
                        12–1–1835.
               35 Antoinette Brown, dau. of VII, 52; b. 4–4–1837; d.
                        1–13–1852.
               36 William Henry Brown, 8. of VII, 52; b. 3–3–1839, New  Haven, Ind.; d. 1–4–1898, Ft. Wayne, Ind.; m.
                        1st Mary Devlin; children: a, Mary E.; m. 2nd Mrs. Cassander Yost
                        5–11–1870, Ft. Wayne, b. 6–5–1832; no children: m.
                        3rd Mrs. Julia Durfee, c. 1894–8; no children. (He adopted his niece Amber Brown
                        Wilson, see IX, 88.)
               37 George H. Brown, s. of VII, 52; b. 4–9–1841; d.
                        10–22–1847.
               38 Benjamin R. Brown, s. of VII, 52; b. 5–15–1843, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; d. 10–17–1929, 
                     Brownsville, Calif.
                  ;
                        m. —?; children: a, Howard, b, Cora.
               39 John Commodore Brown, 8. of VII, 52; b. 2–25–1846; d.
                        3–30–1924, Bronson, Mich.; m. 1–10–1895, Mary
                        Grosse; no children.
               40 Clara B. Brown, dau. of VII, 52; b. 6–18–1848; d.
                        6–7–1873.
               41 Lenory Brown, dau. of VII, 52; b. 1–25–1851; d.
                        1–13–1852.
               42 Alexander Brown, s. of VII, 52; b. 3–24–1853, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; d. 3–17–1901, 
                            Roanoke
                        , hd.; m. 1st Belle Staley; no children; m. 2nd 6–1–1895,
                        Mertie E. Welsh, Ft. Wayne, Ind., b. 7–27–1873; children: a, Marguerite.
                        (Mertie m. 2nd Henry Strock and r. Ft. Wayne, Ind., 1947.)
               43 Laura Brown, dau. of VII, 52; b. 11–15–1855; d.
                        12–31–1877, Kendallville, Ind., buried there; unmarried.
               44 Susan Whitacre Brown, dau. of VII, 52; b. 9–2–1858, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; d. 10–1–1938, Coldwater, Mich.; m. 1st
                        12–23–1866, John Wilson; children: a, Amber Brown; m. 2nd
                        1–13–1917, William Becraft.
               45 Louisa Adelaide Rogers, dau. of VII, 53; b. 1–21–1845; d.
                        7–10–1846.
               46 Willie Spafford Rogers, s. of VII, 53; b. 10–2–1847, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; d. 5–29–1912, 
                            New Haven
                        , buried I.O.O.F. Cem.; m. 1st Mary H. Taylor, 
                            New Haven
                        , b. 11–16–1844, d. 6–1–1873; children:
                        a, girl died infancy; m. 2nd 5–12–1881, Inez E. Randall,
                                
                     Toledo, Ohio
                  , b. 2–26–1856, d.
                        9–24–1891; children: b, Inez M.; m. 3rd 6–5–1901,
                        Mary Florence Pursley, Ft. Wayne, Ind., b. 12–25–1874, d.
                        2–21–1932, Ft. Wayne; children: c, Harriet Louise, d, Mary Imogene, e,
                        Willie Spafford, Jr.
               47 Emma Louisa Rogers, dau. of VII, 53; b. 7–12–1850; d.
                        10–6–1857.
               48 Frank Rogers, s. of VII, 53; b. 10–8–1854; d.
                        9–18–1857.
               49 Jessie Powers Rogers, dau. of VII, 53; b. 6–18–1863, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; d. c. 1908–10, Salt Lake City; m. 1st
                        10–15–1890, 
                            New Haven
                        , Warren S. Hartzell, d. 
                            New Haven
                        ; children: a, Florence, b, Harriett Marie; m. 2nd Ray Reaser.
               50 Emily E. Beeson, dau. of VII, 54; b. 1–18–1838, Stanley, Ind.; d.
                        3–9–1912, Boonville, Ind., buried there; m. 1st George Foster,
                        6–14–1857, Stanley, Ind., b. 1838, d. 10-?-1870, Stanley, buried Barnett
                        Cem.; children: a, William Henry, b, Viola, c, John, d, Ernest, e, Charles; m. 2nd
                        8–30–1871, James Ingler, Stanley, Ind.; children: f, Elzy, e, James; m.
                        3rd Henry Miller, Warrick Co., Ind.; no children.
               
               51 Helen Diana Beeson, dau. of VII, 54; b. 11–2–1840, Stanley, Ind.; d.
                        8–13–1924, Lynnville, Ind., buried there; m. 1st William Roberts Stuckey
                        10–9–1861, Lynnville, b. 11–15–1840, Lynnville, d.
                        8–7–1864, in action at siege of 
                            Atlanta
                        , buried National Cem., Marietta, Ga., s. of John J. Stuckey and Martha Mary Miller;
                        children: a, Viola Curtis, b, Rose (Ila); m. 2nd William Henry Loomis
                        7–31–1867, Boonville, Ind., b. 1851, d. 9–22–1878,
                        buried Barnett Cem., Stanley, Ind., s. of Albert Loomis and Anna Marie Dison; children: c,
                        Ernest Montgomery, d, Minnie, e, Clarence Alvia, f, Sylvia.
               52 Louisa Marian Beeson, dau. of VII, 54; b. 8–10–1842; d.
                        6–27–1844.
               53 Mary Jane Beeson, dau. of VII, 54; b. 5–15–1844, Stanley, Ind.; d.
                        1–18–1937, 
                            Evansville
                        , Ind., buried Park Lawn Cem., there; m. 1st 7–16–1862,
                        Warrick Co., Ind., George W. Skeele; no children: m. 2nd 7–14–1866,
                        Petersburg, Ind., Eli Stuckey, b. 9–5–1843, Lynnville, Ind., d.
                        12–6–1906, 
                            Marion
                        , Ind., Soldiers' Home, s. of John Stuckey and Martha Mary Miller;
                        children: a, Cora, b, Edgar, c, Maud.
               54 Henry Clay Beeson, s. of VII, 54; b. 5–9–1846; d.
                        8–27–1850.
               55 Susan Clara Beeson, dau. of VII, 54; b. 3–17–1848, Stanley, Ind.; d.
                        5–7–1876, Stanley, buried Mt. Olive Cem., Boonville, Ind., Thompson lot;
                        m. 5–30–1867, Warrick Co., Ind., Thomas Thompson, b. 1841, Warrick Co.,
                        Ind., d. 3–1–1928, Vin-cennes, Ind., s. of Macager Thompson and
                        — Morton; children: a, Elias, b, Louisa (Lulu), c, Winnie Clara. (Thomas Thompson m.
                        2nd 1878/9 Eveline Fortney and they had children.)
               56 Charles Harvey Beeson, s. of VII, 54; b. 3–12–1852, Stanley, Ind.; d.
                        10–16–1932, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        ; r. 
                            Texas
                         early; m. 12–29–1872, Louisa Jane Greer, Stanley, Ind., b.
                        9–25–1857, Stanley, d. 12–19–1924, Gonzales, dau. of 
                            Jasper
                         Greer and Hester Kiper; children: a, Mary Electa, b, Savilla Agnes, c, William
                        Spafford, d, Clifton, e, Charles Edgar.
               57 Eliza Ellen (Nell) Beeson, dau. of VII, 54; b. 5–20–1852, Stanley,
                        Ind.; d. summer 1886, Stanley, buried Beeson lot, Barnett Cem.; m.
                        9–22–1870 Thomas Jefferson Wooldridge, b. 10–6–1847,
                        Butler Co., Ky., d. 8–21–1939, Nelson, Ky., s. of Fleming G. Wooldridge
                        and Elizabeth Christmas; children: a, William, b, Oscar Montgomery, c, Silas Beeson, d, Ida
                        Bertha, e, Lester Pratt. (Thomas Jefferson Wooldridge m. 2nd Mrs. Martha Dephendoll Wilsey.)
               58 Ernest Montgomery Beeson, s. of VII, 54; b. 9–26–1854, Stanley, Ind.;
                        d. 11–12–1894, 
                            Evansville
                        , Ind., buried Oak Hill Cem.; m. 11–6–1881, Vanderburgh Co.,
                        Ind., Alice Van Biber, b. 1861, d. 11–21–1903, buried same place, dau. of
                        Jacob Van Riber; children: a, Frank, b, Roy Montgomery, c, Howard.
               59 James L. Beeson, s. of VII, 54; b. 8–15–1856; d.
                        8–3–1881, Stanley, Ind.; unmarried.
               
               60 Ida Louise Beeson, dau. of VII, 54; b. 1–4–1859, Stanley, Ind.; d.
                        1–4–1883, Stanley, buried Beeson lot, Barnett Cem.; m.
                        10–9–1879, W. Frank Madden, s. of Patrick Madden and Mary Bullivant of
                        Warrick Co., Ind.; no children. (W. Frank Madden m. 2nd Mary Ann Woodworth.)
               61 Henry Rogers, s. of VII, 55; d. c. 1891/2 Edgerton, 
                            Ohio
                        ; probably unmarried.
               62 Orrin Rogers, s. of VII, 55; m. and r. 
                     Toledo, Ohio
                  ; had
                        children.
               63 Flora E. Rogers, dau. of VII, 55; m. 9–19–1882, Ferdinand Reichard,
                        Allen Co., Ind.; r. and d. Monrovia, Calif.; had 2 children.
               64 Emma Rogers, dau. of VII, 55; married name not known.
               65 Eva Annette Rogers, dau. of VII, 56; b. 4–2–1852, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; d. 12–14–1924, Ft. Wayne, Ind.; m.
                        9–22–1869, Charles Taylor Lipes, Ft. Wayne; children: a, Ethel.
               66 Ella L. Rogers, dau. of VII, 56; d. infancy.
               67 Clara Dell Rogers, dau. of VII, 56; b. 7–4–1858: living
                                
                     Denver, Colo.
                  ; m. 1st 1–11–1877, Oliver Tustison,
                        Allen Co., Ind., b. 4–7–1840, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind., d. 1–27–1894, 
                            Elkhart
                        , Ind., buried I.O.O.F. Cem., (see VIII, 30); children: a, Olive Myrtle, b, Nelson
                        Rogers, c, Glen Claire; m. 2nd 3–15–1899, Frank McClallan Reaser, Ft.
                        Wayne, Ind., b. 8–21–1864, d. 12–1–1933; m. 3rd
                        Charles Amazon Gurwell, 
                     Denver, Colo.
                  , 4–19–1919, b.
                        12–5–1862, d. 9–19–1942, 
                            Denver
                        ; no children.
               68 Fitz Glen Rogers, s. of VII, 56; b. 12–23–1864, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; d. 10–16–1939, Orange Park, Fla.; unmarried.
               69 Florence J. Powers, dau. of VII, 59; b. 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; d. 
                            Greensburg
                        , Ind.; m. Samuel Rradbury, Winchester, Ind.; no children.
               70 Lamont Montgomery Powers, s. of VII, 59; b. 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; d. Joliet, 111.; m. Mary Riley, Joliet; no children.
               71 Phineas Homer Powers, s. of VII, 59; b. 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; d. Anderson, Ind.; m. —?; children: a, Homer Montgomery, b,
                        Marie.
               72 Helen Powers, dau. of VII, 59; b. 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; d. 
                     Los Angeles, Calif.
                  ; m. Roland Willets, Winchester, Ind.;
                        no children.
               73 Amasa Volney Powers, s. of VII, 59; b. 11–13–1858, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; d. 6–30–1936, Ft. Wayne, Ind., buried Lindenwood Cem.;
                        m. 6–16–1892, Julia A. Disney, 
                     Decatur, Ill.
                  ,
                        b. 4–3–1874, 
                            Decatur
                        , living, dau. of John Leo Disney and Helen Isabelle Garrell.
               74 Jessie B. Powers, dau. of VII, 59; b. 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; d. Dallas, 
                            Texas
                        ; m. Jack Lauer; children: a, Cameron.
               75 Eva America Powers, dau. of VII, 59; b. 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; d. 
                            Decatur
                        , Ind.; m. Andrew Welfey, Ft. Wayne, Ind.; no children.
               76 Lucien Volney Powers, s. of VII, 59; b. 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; d. Andrews, Ind.; unmarried.
               
               77 William Melville Burdge, s. of VII, 63; b. 1846; m. Ellen Griffith; children: a, Howard
                        Griffith, b, Oscar Frank, c, Alice Virginia.
               IX 1 Sarah Burgess, dau. of VIII, 3; m. — Reid.
               2 Eliza Burgess, dau. of VIII, 3; m. — Pepper.
               3 Mary Burgess, dau. of VIII, 3; m. — Talbot.
               4 Abbie Burgess, dau. of VIII, 3; m. — Lusk.
               5 Thomas J. Burgess, s. of VIII, 3; b. Mason Co., Ky., 6–15–1828; d.
                        1900; m. 12–22–1859, Martha Priscilla Owens, b.
                        4–22–1841, d. 1899; r. 
                     St.
                                Joseph, Mo.
                  ; children: a,
                        Abbie Elizabeth, b, Mattie Wise, c, Ida L., d, Thomas J., Jr.
               6 Joshua Kate Burgess, s. of VIII, 3; b. Mason Co., Ky., 3–12–1830; m.
                        1856 Lucinda A. Holliday; r. 
                     St. Joseph,
                                Mo.
                  ; children: a, William D., b,
                        Mary M., c, Minnie N., d, W. M., e, John E., f, Katie, g, Guy (?).
               7 John W. Burgess, s. of VIII, 3; m. Sue Innes.
               8 James E. Burgess, s. of VIII, 3; d. 1871; m. Annie Innes.
               9 Clay Burgess, s. of VIII, 3; twin of Frances; d. infancy.
               10 Frances Burgess, dau. of VIII, 3; twin of 
                            Clay
                        ; d. infancy.
               11 Charles W. Burgess, s. of VIII, 3; d. 1878.
               12 William Wise, s. of VIII, 4; Civil War veteran; b. 10–22–1829, Marion
                        Co., Mo.; m. America Jane Phillips (who m. 2nd Stephen Laffoon); children: a, James Thomas, b,
                        Carolyn, c, Cora.
               13 Mary Jane Wise, dau. of VIII, 4; b. 10–24–1832, LaGrange, Mo.; d.
                        9–12–1920, 
                     New London,
                                Mo.
                  ; m. 
                            New London
                        , 10–24–1854, George Campbell Hays, Jr. (Lt. Civil War, s. of
                        George Campbell Hays, Sr. (4) of War of 1812, Charles (3) of American Revolution, Capt. Andrew (2) of French and Indian Wars,
                        John (1) Hays of Augusta Co., Va.), b. 9–25–1828,
                        Overton, Monroe Co., Tenn., d. 7–20–1907, 
                     New London, Mo.
                  ; children: a, James William, b, Anna M., c, Sarah Campbell, d, Mary
                        Margaret, e, George Edgar, f, Charles Thomas.
               14 Thomas Jefferson Wise, Jr., s. of VIII, 4; b. Marion Co., Mo.,
                        12–6–1836; d. 
                     Wichita,
                                Kans.
                  ; m. 1st Mattie Campbell
                        10–12–1868, d. 7–5–1873; 3 children who died in
                        childhood; m. 2nd 4–11–1875, Mary A. Am, b. Mich.,
                        7–30–1858, dau. of John Arn, McPherson, 
                            Kans.
                        ; children: d, John S., e, William M., f, Maud May, g, Blanche E., h, Thomas J.,
                        III, i, Fannie, j, Rufus, k, Earl.
               15 Maggie Hall Wise, dau. of VIII, 4; b. 1–30–1839; d.
                        6–18–1898, 
                     Marion,
                                Kans.
                  ; m. 1st James Morris; m. 1866
                        2nd Christopher Ilath (have desc. in 
                            Kans.
                        ); children: a, Gabriella, b, Charles.
               16 Charles Washington Wise, s. of VIII, 4; b. 12–10–1840, Marion Co.,
                        Mo.; m. Louisa Catherine Hall, cousin; children: a, Gabriella, b, Lola, c, Molly, d, others,
                        names unknown.
               17 Abbie A. Wise, dau. of VIII, 4; b. 7–5–1843, Marion Co.,  Mo.; m. Jack Costello, 
                            Marion
                        
                        
                            Kans.
                        ; children: a, Tomella Adelaide, b, William, c, Lee, d, Valentine.
               18 Gabriella S. Wise, dau. of VIII, 4; b. 12–24–1846; d.
                        2–17–1869; m. George W. Clark; no children.
               19 John S. Wise, s. of VIII, 4; b. 9–11–1848, Marion Co., Mo.; 1st 1870
                        Julia F. Kearns; no children: m. 2nd Hattie Smith; no children.
               20 William W. Wimer, s. of VIII, 5; b. 1–26–1835.
               21 John W. Wimer, s. of VIII, 5; b. 10–4–1838; m.
                        4–1–1860, Sarah A. Million; children: a, Virgie M., b, Sallie Eyle, c,
                        Alberta B., d, Mary Florence, e, John William, f, Abbie Irene, g, Ralph, h, Emma Grace.
               22 John Wimer Wise, s. of VIII, 8; b. 
                     St.
                            Louis, Mo.
                  ,
                        4–19–1857; d. 2–20–1864, Lawrence, 
                            Kans.
                        
               
               23 Julia Elva Wise, dau. of VIII, 8; b. 
                     St.
                            Louis, Mo.
                  ,
                        2–24–1859; m. 10–27–1877, Lewis Cass Campbell, b.
                        LeClair, 
                            Iowa
                        , 3–17–1857, d. 4–1–1937, Port Orchard,
                        Wash.; children: a, Caroline May, b, Hattie Alice, c, Lillie Bell, d, Lewis Guy, e, Iva Leona,
                        f, Eugene Franklin.
               24 Lillie S. Wise, dau. of VIII, 8; b. Marion Co., 
                            Kans.
                        , 10–4–1861; d. —?
               25 Milton Wise, s. of VIII, 8; b. Council Grove, 
                            Kans.
                        , 6–26–1863 (twin), d. 3–9–1864,
                        Lawrence, 
                            Kans.
                        
               
               26 William Wise, s. of VIII, 8; b. 6–26–1863 Council Grove, 
                            Kans.
                        , (twin of 
                            Milton
                        ); m. —?; had 1 son.
               27 Edward S. Wise, s. of VIII, 8; b. 4–6–1868; d.
                        8–31–1876.
               28 Rufus R. Wise, s. of VIII, 8; b. 9–6–1869; d.
                        1–6–1889.
               29 Minnie Belle Wise, dau. of VIII, 8; b. 4–12–1871; d.
                        11–12–1892; m. 1–11–1891, E. F. VanVleet; children:
                        1 died infancy.
               30 Alice A. Wise, dau. of VIII, 8; b. 9–7–1873; d.
                        5–8–1880.
               31 Walter W. Wise, s. of VIII, 8; b. 10–21–1875; d.
                        7–5–1898, aboard ship in Spanish American War, buried at sea.
               32 Claude S. Wise, s. of VIII, 8; b. 2–7–1878, Council Grove, 
                            Kans.
                        ; d. 10–19–1920, 
                     Kansas
                                City, Mo.
                  
               
               33 Sarah J. Shipman, dau. of VIII, 9; b. c. 1842, Ind.
               34 Albert Shipman, s. of VIII, 9; b. c. 1846, Ind.
               35 Ralph Shipman, s. of VIII, 9; b. c. 1853, Ind.
               36 Clara Shipman, dau. of VIII, 11; b. 9–2–1847, 
                            Knightstown
                        , Ind.; d. 8–18–1868, 
                            Knightstown
                        , buried Glencove Cem.; m. 11–20–1867, Herbert N. Bigelow, 
                            Knightstown
                        ; children: a, Beatrice.
               37 Ida Shipman, dau. of VIII, 11; b. 12–20–1849; m.
                        10–21–1869, Charles A. Humphrey, 
                            Knightstown
                        ; children: a, Hervey.
               38 Rose Shipman, dau. of VIII, 11; b. 6–30–1852, 
                            Knightstown
                        , Ind.; m. John Streight 12–6–1877.
               39 Beatrice Shipman, dau. of VIII, 11; b. 8–16–1868.
               40 Roy David Shipman, s. of VIII, 11; baptized David LeRoy; b.
                        12–31–1887, 
                            Knightstown
                        , Ind.; living; m. 6–28–1911, Pearl Gay Hall, b.
                        7–1–1887; children: a, Ralph Lincoln.
               
               41 William H. Shipman, s. of VIII, 14; b. c. 1837, 
                            Ohio
                        ; Civil War veteran; r. 
                            Cleveland
                        , Jackson Twp., Hancock Co., Ind., 1860; m. Sarah —?, b.c. 1849;
                        children: a, Clara.
               42 James J. Shipman, s. of VIII, 14; b. c. 1838, 
                            Ohio
                        ; in Civil War.
               43 Edward (Edwin) Shipman, s. of VIII, 14; b. c. 1840, Ind.
               44 Elizabeth Shipman, dau. of VIII, 14; b. c. 1842, Ind.; given as Catherine in 1860 census.
               45 Alice A. Shipman, dau. of VIII, 14; b. c. 1844, Ind.
               46 Margaret A. Shipman, dau. of VIII, 14; b. c. 1846, Ind.
               47 Josiah W. Shipman, s. of VIII, 14; b. c. 1849, Ind.
               48 Charles M. Shipman, s. of VIII, 14; b. c. 1851, Ind.
               49 Lucy M. Shipman, dau. of VIII, 14; b. c. 1553, Ind.
               50 Israel A. Shipman, s. of VIII, 14; b. c. 1856, Ind.
               51 John Shipman, s. of VIII, 14; b. c. 1858, Ind.
               52 Anne Shipman, dau. of VIII, 18; b. 1861, 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ; d.
                        1930, 
                            Springfield
                        , buried Ferncliff Cem.; unmarried.
               53 Warren Shipman, s. of VIII, 18; b. 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  .
               54 Earl M. Shipman, s. of VIII, 18; b. 3–29–1874, 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ; m. 5–24–1898, Eva Hartsock, dau. of William
                        and Georgiana Hartsock of Wayneville, 
                            Ohio
                        .
               55 Henry Clay Rogers, s. of VIII, 19; d. 1842, childhood, 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  .
               56 Rachel Jane (Jennie) Rogers, dau. of VIII, 19; d. 1869, age 22, 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  .
               57 Ida Rogers, dau. of VIII, 19; d. 1885, age 5, 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  .
               58 Belle Green, dau. of VIII, 20; d. c. 1925, 
                     Detroit, Mich.
                  ; m. Rev. M.
                        Bellman.
               59 Theron Green, s. of VIII, 20; m. and had children.
               60 Ida Green, dau. of VIII, 20; m. Isaac Walton; children: a, Harry.
               61 Sarah Teegarden, dau. of VIII, 21; b. 9-?-1844; d. 1898, 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ; m.
                        Rev. William Cummings, Pres. minister, b. 1838, d. 1879; both buried Teegarden lot, Ferncliff
                        Cem.; children: a, Ralph (Duward?), b, William, c, Maud.
               62 Dr. William Teegarden, M.D., s. of VIII, 21; b. 1–29–1847; d. 1918;
                        m. 1st Anne Gardner; children: A Charles (who assumed mother's maiden name); m. 2nd
                        Jeannie McMillan; children: b, Marian, c, Thurza.
               63 Adeline Teegarden, dau. of VIII, 21; b. 8–16–1849,
                                
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ; d. 7–8–1930, 
                            Springfield
                        ; m. 10–5–1871, George Arthur, 
                            Springfield
                        , b. 3–19–1842, d. 2–15–1912; children:
                        a, Mabel Lee, b, Ethel Lorne, c, Grace I.
               64 Thurza Teegarden, dau. of VIII, 21; b. 1852; d. 1934; m. Alfred Patterson Campbell;
                        children: a, Alfred, b, Watson, c, Myra, d, Eleanor.
               65 Watson Teegarden, s. of VIII, 21; b. 2–16–1863,
                                
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ; d. c. 1891–4 in South, buried Arlington
                        Cem., as U.S. Army officer; m. —?; no children.
               
               66 Elizabeth Teegarden, dau. of VIII, 21; b. 1860; d. 1864.
               67 Mary Test, dau. of VIII, 26; b. 1847.
               68 Sarah Test, dau. of VIII, 26; b. 1849.
               69 John Frazee Test, s. of VIII, 26; b. 10–15–1852, Bethel, 
                            Ohio
                        ; d. 1–15–1935, 
                            Cincinnati
                        ; m. 6–2–1875, Martha Sprinkle, 
                            Rome
                        , Stout Co., 
                            Ohio
                        , b. 3–9–1853, Dumbarton, 
                            Ohio
                        , d. 1–4–1929, 
                            Cincinnati
                        ; children: a, Ethel, b, Edna, c, others.
               70 Amanda Test, dau. of VIII, 26; b. 1854.
               71 David Beeson, s. of VIII, 27; b. 1857, Warrick Co., Ind.; m. Emilie Wallen, d. before 1880;
                        children: a, May.
               72 Louisa Beeson, dau. of VIII, 27, b. c. 1860, Warrick Co., Ind.; d. young.
               73 Elizabeth Beeson, dau. of VIII, 27; b. 1862, Warrick Co., Ind., d. as young lady at Patoka,
                        Ind.; unmarried.
               74 Caroline Beeson, dau. of VIII, 27; b. 1864, Warrick Co., Ind.; d. age 16, Patoka, Ind.
               75 John Reeson, s. of VIII, 27; b. 5–10–1865, Lynnville, Ind.; d.
                        7–30–1944, Patoka, Ind.; unmarried.
               76 James Beeson, s. of VIII, 27; b. 12–26–1868, Petersburg, Ind.; d.
                        5–11–1943, Patoka, Ind.; unmarried.
               77 Harlie Brenton Lovall, s. of VIII, 31; b. 4–24–1889, Hopkins, Mich.;
                        living; m. 4–5–1912, Mae E. Shannon, 
                            Chicago
                        , b. 1–10–1890, d. 12–15–1918; children:
                        a, Barbara Jean, b, John Rrenton; m. 2nd 6–17–1925, Mary Jane Hall, Bay
                        City, Mich., b. 4–12–1888, living; no children.
               78 Burl Roy Lovall, s. of VIII, 31; b. 2–23–1892, Hopkins, Mich.;
                        living; m. 5–15–1914, Zillah Leta Moored, Hopkins, Mich., b.
                        8–8–1892, Hopkins, living; children: a, Evelyn Norma, b, Oliver Edmund, c,
                        Samuel Burl.
               79 Iona Frisby, dau. of VIII, 32; b. 4–2–1879, Ft. Wayne, Ind.; living;
                        unmarried.
               80 Roger Lovall Frisby, s. of VIII, 32; b. 12–14–1822, Ft. Wayne, Ind.;
                        m. 6–15–1912, Stella Louise Helmar, b. 6–14–1883,
                                
                     St. Joseph, Mo.
                  ; both living; no children.
               81 Jennie Bell Frisby, dau. of VIII, 32; b. 4–8–1887, Ft. Wayne, Ind.;
                        d. 1939, Calif.; m. Fred Berdelman, r. 
                     Huntington
                            Beach, Calif.
                  ; children: a,
                        Roger.
               82 Ethlan Candis Frisby, dau. of VIII, 32; b. 9–23–1888, Ft. Wayne,
                        Ind.; m. 6–9–1915, J. Lloyd Armstrong, Ft. Wayne; both living; no
                        children.
               83 Frances Dettie Frisby, dau. of VIII, 32; b. 9–23–1893; d. infancy.
               84 Mary E. Brown, dau. of VIII, 36; b. 1866, Ft. Wayne, Ind.; d.
                        11–22–1902; m. 4–18–1888, John Henry Kelker;
                        children: a, Ethel Hazel, b, Henrietta.
               85 Howard Brown, s. of VIII, 38; r. Calif.; m. and had children.
               86 Cora Brown, dau. of VIII, 38; m. 1st — Martin; children: a, Willis E.; m. 2nd
                        — Ermintinger; r. 
                        
                     Brownsville, Calif.
                  ; children: b, A. W., c, Leon F., d, Rodney, e, Elmer.
               87 Marguerite Brown, dau. of VIII, 42; b. 4–24–1897, Ft. Wayne, Ind.; r. 
                            Decatur
                        , Ind.; m. 12–25–1919, Charles C. Langston, 
                            Roanoke
                        , Ind.; b. 6–6–1894, 
                            Roanoke
                        , s. of Rufus M. Langston and Jennie John; children: a, David, b, Alice.
               88 Amber Brown Wilson, dau. of VIII, 44; b. 12–7–1888, Ft. Wayne, Ind.;
                        r. living Coldwater, Mich.; m. 2–17–1909, Fred Adelbert Thompson,
                        Jonesville, Mich., b. 8–7–1887, Jackson, Mich.; children: a, Audrey
                        Louise, b, Charles Arthur. Amber was adopted by Uncle William Henry Brown (see VIII, 36), and
                        she used the name of 
                            Brown
                        , was married under name 
                            Brown
                        .
               89 Inez M. Rogers, dau. of VIII, 46; b. 9–24–1890, Napoleon, 
                            Ohio
                        ; m. 7–3–1913, Carl H. Passe, 
                            Detroit
                        , b. 6–17–1888; both living Seattle, Wash.; children: a,
                        Kenneth Howard, b, Charles William, c, Phyllis Marie.
               90 Harriet Louise Rogers, dau. of VIII, 46; b. 7–1–1903, Ft. Wayne,
                        Ind.; m. 3–25–1921, Harold DeLoss Smith, b.
                        6–22–1901, Ft. Wayne, s. of Charles Nehimiah Smith and Hannah Emily Noble;
                        r. Ft. Wayne; children: a, Harold William, b, Joseph Edward.
               91 Mary Imogene Rogers, dau. of VIII, 46; b. 12–10–1905, Ft. Wayne,
                        Ind.; r. Ft. Wayne; unmarried.
               92 Willie Spafford Rogers, Jr., s. of VIII, 46; b. 4–23–1907; d.
                        12–21–1907.
               93 Florence Hartzell, dau. of VIII, 49; either she or sister m. Anthony Alberts.
               94 Harriett Marie Hartzell, dau. of VIII, 49; either she or sister m. Anthony Alberts.
               95 William Henry Foster, s. of VIII, 50; b. 3–19–1859, Stanley, Ind.; d.
                        2–13–1944, Birmingham, Ala.; m. 1st Warrick Co., Ind.,
                        12–22–1882, Nancy Julian, b. 5-?-1866, Stanley, d. El-berfeld, Ind., dau
                        of William Julian and Elizabeth Campbell (and sister of Abner Julian, see IX, 96); children: a,
                        Emily Pearl, b, Gus; m. 2nd 3–4–1889, Emma Elizabeth Floyd, noonville,
                        Ind., d. 12–6-?, Boonville, dau. of Marion Floyd; children: c, Raymond, d, Rita
                        Ethel.
               96 Viola Foster, dau. of VIII, 50; b. 8–19–1862, Stanley, Ind.; living
                        Boonville, Ind.; m. 7–3–1879, Abner Julian, Warrick Co., Ind., b.
                        6–22–1859, Spurgeon, Warrick Co., d. 12–24–1911,
                        Boonville, s. of William Julian and Elizabeth Campbell (and brother of Nancy Julian, see IX,
                        95); children: a, Edna, b, Ida, c, Mabel, d, Ethel, e, Belle, f, Emily Elizabeth, g, Opal, h,
                        Bess.
               97 John D. Foster, s. of VIII, 50; b. 10-?-1865, Stanley, Ind.; d. Ky.; m.
                        3–17–1885, Sarah M. Brown, Lynnville, Ind., dau. of Richard Brown; had
                        several children.
               98 Ernest Foster, s. of VIII, 50; b. 1867, d. infancy.
               99 Charles Foster, s. of VIII, 50; b. 1869; d. infancy.
               
               100 Elzy Ingler, s. of VIII, 50; b. 5–21–1873, Stanley, Ind.
               101 James Ingler, Jr., s. of VIII, 50; b. 1874; d. July, 1894.
               102 Viola Curtis Stuckey, dau. of VIII, 51; b. 5–8–1862, Stanley, Ind.;
                        d. 6–7–1946, Kankakee, Ill.; m. 8–19–1887, Rev.
                        Herman Henry Frederick Meier, 
                            Chicago
                        , b. 1–11–1861, Westerbeck, 
                            Hanover
                         Province, Germany, d. 9–22–1940, Kankakee, Ill., s. of Henry
                        Frederick Christian Meyer and Christine Sophie Grussendorf; children: a, Elsie Rose, b, Herbert
                        Otto, c, Helen Ruby, d, Harold Irving. (Both sons use spelling Meyer.)
               103 Rose (Ila) Stuckey, dau. of VIII, 51; b. 11–7–1864, Lynnville, Ind.;
                        living San Antonio, 
                            Texas
                        ; m. 10–4–1894, Joseph Hooker Hawes, 
                     Louisville, Ky.
                  , b. 8–31–1865, 
                            Memphis
                        , Ind., d. 10–5–1938, San Antonio; no children. (He had m. 1st
                        Rosalie Dunley 5–13–1892 by whom he had 2 children, Roscoe and Irene
                        Rose.)
               104 Ernest Montgomery Loomis, s. of VIII, 51; b. 1–7–1871, Lynnville,
                        Ind.; living Lynnville; m. 8–18–1901, Ida Pearl Phillips, Lynnville, b.
                        1–30–1880, 
                            Oakland City
                        , Ind., d. 12–29–1939, Lynnville, buried there, dau. of James
                        L. Phillips and Sarah E. Chapman; children: a, William Henry, b, Vivian Maud, c, Paul Phillips,
                        d, Raymond Clair; m. 2nd 11–23–1942, Boonville, Ind., Mrs. Edna Hall; no
                        children.
               105 Minnie Loomis, dau. of VIII, 51; b. 4–6–1872; d.
                        8–2–1873.
               106 Clarence Alvia Loomis, s. of VIII, 51; b. 2–20–1876, Lynnville,
                        Ind.; d. 6–11–1929, East 
                     St.
                            Louis, Ill.
                  , buried Mt.
                        Hope Cem., Belleville, Ill.; m. 9–25–1902, Nora Blackwood, Murphysboro,
                        Ill., b. 10–10–1882, Murphysboro, living E. St. Louis, dau. of Mark
                        Blackwood and Nosla Lype; children: a, Helen, b, Clarence Alvia, Jr., c, Charles Edward, d,
                        Paul, e, Thelma Louise, f, Dorothy Arlie, g, Earl Clinton, h, Elsie Fern.
               107 Sylvia Loomis, dau. of VIII, 51; b. 3–5–1879, Lynnville, Ind.;
                        living Boonville, Ind.; m. 12–16–1900, John Moore, Lynnville, b.
                        8–16–1868, Warrick Co., Ind., d. 3–27–1938,
                        Lynnville, buried there, s. of William and Martha Jane Moore; children: a, Helen Irene, b, Mabel
                        Lucille, c, Gladys, d, Ruby Pauline.
               108 Cora Stuckey, dau. of VIII, 53; b. 2–18–1867, Lynnville, Ind.; d. c.
                        1912, 
                     Memphis, Tenn.
                  ; m. c. 1885, James Thomas Hand, 
                            Evansville
                        , Ind., b. Ga., d. c. 1920, Cottonplant, Ark.; children: a, Bertha, b, Ray, c,
                        Catherine.
               109 Edgar Stuckey, s. of VIII, 53; b. 3–12–1869, Lynnville, Ind.; living
                        Lakeland, Fla.; m. 6–23–1877, Sarah Evelyn BOOS, 
                            Evansville
                        , Ind., b. 9–23–1877, Chandler, Ind., d.
                        5–11–1938, 
                            Evansville
                        , buried Park Lawn Cem., dau. of William Boss and Frances Knapp; children: a, Olive
                        Evelyn, b, Lester E.
               110 Maud Stuckey, dau. of VIII, 53; b. 3–26–1873, Lynnville, Ind.; d.
                        1908, 
                     Nashville, Tenn.
                  ; m. 1st John Wing; m. 2nd John Brady; m. 3rd Louis Seiffert;
                        no children.
               
               111 Elias Thompson, s. of VIII, 55; b. 4–29–1868, Stanley, Ind.; d.
                        3–18–1947, Smiley, 
                            Texas
                        ; m. 1896, Martha Usala Tyree, Wrightsboro, 
                            Texas
                        , b. 11–10–1877, living, dau. of John Burnham Tyree and
                        Melissa Gleghorn (see IX, 115); children: a, John Henry, b, Thomas Tyree, c, Ralph Millard.
               112 Louisa (Lulu) Thompson, dau. of VIII, 55; d. 7–10–1874.
               113 Winnie Clara Thompson, dau. of VIII, 55; b. 9–17–1875, Stanley,
                        Ind.; r. 
                            Vincennes
                        , Ind.; m. 8–5–1896, Henry Ellis Massey, Owensville, Ind., b.
                        8–1–1871, Owensville, d. 6–5–1915, Owensville, s. of
                        Joel Massey and Lydia Maxwell; children: a, Eliza Fay, b, Roy Elias, c, Paul Donovan.
               114 Mary Electa Beeson, dau. of VIII, 56; b. 9–13–1873, Stanley, Ind.;
                        d. 6–30–1942, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        ; m. 6–26–1895, Martin Albert Zint, Wrightsboro, 
                            Texas
                        , b. 2–4–1873, Elberfeld, Ind., living, s. of Mathias Peter
                        Zint and Catherine Cass Cartmill; children: a, Florence Mantillie, b, Gertrude Clarice.
               115 Savilla Agnes Beeson, dau. of VIII, 56; b. 11–5–1877, Stanley, Ind.;
                        d. 2–1–1894, Wrightsboro, 
                            Texas
                        ; m. 11–16–1892, Luther Franklin Tyree, Wrightsboro, b.
                        12–18–1871, Emmitt, Nevada Co., Ark., d. 2–1–1910,
                        Moore, 
                            Texas
                        , s. of John Burn-ham Tyree and Melissa Gleghorn (see IX, 111); children: a,
                        Commodore A.
               116 William Spafford Beeson, s. of VIII, 56; b. 3–9–1879, Stanley, Ind.;
                        d. 7–11–1921, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        ; m. 8–27–1902, Lucy Caraway, Gonzales, b.
                        8–31–1880, Gonzales, living there, dau. of John Caraway and Martha Jane
                        May; children: a, Melvin E., b, Allen Teman, c, Annie Laurie, d, Mary Ella, e, Stephen Clifton,
                        f, Florence Rebecca.
               117 Clifton Beeson, s. of VIII, 56; b. 8–3–1881; d.
                        1–29–1885, Stanley, Ind.
               118 Charles Edgar Beeson, s. of VIII, 56; b. 8–27–1883, Stanley, Ind.;
                        r. Schulenburg, 
                            Texas
                        ; d. 1–14–1947, there; m. 1st 1906, Anna Elvena Schlick,
                        Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        , b. Fayette Co., 
                            Texas
                        , living, dau. of Frederick Albert Schlick and Elvena Witte; children: a, LaMonte
                        Lawrence, b, Walter Edgar; m. 2nd 12–15–1930, Mrs. Jessie Calvert
                        Margruder, Shreveport, La.
               119 William Wooldridge, s. of VIII, 57; b. 2–17–1872; d.
                        2–18–1872.
               120 Oscar Montgomery Wooldridge, s. of VIII, 57; b. 3–18–1873, Stanley,
                        Ind.; d. 12–23–1940, 
                            Evansville
                        , Ind.; m. 6–22-?, Sarah Louise Moore, Penrod, Ky., b.
                        6–22–1884, Penrod, d. 10–2–1941, 
                            Evansville
                        , dau. of John Worthington Moore and Frances Gross (see IX, 123); children: a,
                        Perry.
               121 Silas Beeson Wooldridge, s. of VIII, 57; b. 1–10–1876, Stanley,
                        Ind.; d. 1894, Quality, Ky.; unmarried.
               122 Ida Bertha Wooldridge, dau. of VIII, 57; b. 2–6–1879, Stanley, Ind.;
                        living Owensboro, Ky.; m. 1st 5–20–1896, Mathew Jenkins, Huntsville, Ky.,
                        b. Gibson Co., Ind., d. 7–27–1915, Greenville, Ky., s. of Lewis Jenkins
                        and Rebecca Harper;  children: a, Bessie Pearl, b, Grace
                        Opal, c, Lester, d, Edgar Thomas, e, Jesse Wayne, f, Bertie Velma; m. 2nd
                        12–18–1917, Adam Forest Sutton, Owensboro, b.
                        9–14–1870, Whitesville, Ky.; children: g, Robert Douglas, h, Frank Daryl.
               123 Lester Pratt Wooldridge, s. of VIII, 57; b. 7–5–1881, Stanley, Ind.;
                        living Port Gibson, Miss.; m. 1st 12–2–1904, Irene Pearl Moore,
                                
                     Princeton, Ky.
                  , b. 10–27–1885, Penrod, Ky.,
                        dau. of John Worthington Moore and Frances Gross (see IX, 120); children: a, Lester Milton; m.
                        2nd 1926, Addie French, Hermansville, Miss.; no children.
               124 Frank Beeson, s. of VIII, 58; b. 11–15–1882, Vanderburgh Co., Ind.;
                        d. 11–14–1937, 
                            Evansville
                        , Ind., buried Oak Hill Cem.; m. 2–27–1907, Amelia Gautier, 
                            Evansville
                        , b. 3–3–1882, living; no children.
               125 Roy Montgomery Beeson, s. of VIII, 58; b. 1–12–1886, Vanderburgh
                        Co., Ind.; d. 2–12–1944, Wilkensburg, Pa., buried Smithfield Cem.,
                                
                     Pittsburgh, Pa.
                  ; m. Minta M. Phillippi
                        7–8–1920, Buffalo, N.Y., b. 6–15–1880, living
                        Wilkensburg; no children.
               126 Howard Beeson, s. of VIII, 58; b. 2–2–1889, Vanderburgh Co., Ind.;
                        d. 11–21–1929, 
                            Evansville
                        , Ind., buried Oak Hill Cem.; m. —?; no children.
               127 Ethel Lipes, dau. of VIII, 65; living 
                     Kansas
                            City, Mo.
                  ; m. Nathan H.
                        Chapman 10–28–1914, 
                     Kansas
                            City, Mo.
                  , d. 7-?-1938; no
                        children.
               128 Olive Myrtle Tustison, dau. of VIII, 67; b. 10–23–1877, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; living 
                     Denver, Colo.
                  ; m. 11–7–1900,
                        William Patrick Motherwell, b. 2–2–1865, Allen Co., Ind., living, s. of
                        John Motherwell and Margaret Ann Fitzgerald; children: a, Rogers William, b, Clara Alice, c,
                        Nelson Robert.
               129 Nelson Rogers Tustison, s. of VIII, 67; b. 12–16–1879, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; living 
                     Evanston, Wyo.
                  ; m. Christine Moore
                        11–18–1914, Ogden, 
                            Utah
                        , b. 10–15–1888, Georges River, 
                     Nova Scotia, Canada
                  , living; children: a, Sterling F.
               130 Glen Clair Tustison, s. of VIII, 67; b. 5–29–1884, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; d. 8–2–1891.
               131 Howard Griffith Burdge, Ph.D., s. of VIII, 77; r. Melbourne, Fla.; b. — Scovel,
                        sister of Judge G. K. Scovel of Calif.; children: a, Beatrice. (For further information see Who's Who, 1922–38.)
               132 Oscar Frank Burdge, s. of VIII, 77; living 
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
                  .
               133 Alice Virginia Burdge, dau. of VIII, 77; living 
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
                  .
            
            [To be continued in the next issue.]
         
         
         
            Query 130
            
                    Elijah Brazill Stinson, born 1762 in 
                            Virginia
                        . Where? He died in 
                            Evansville
                        , Ind. March 21/23–1835. Married in Camden Dist. S.C.,—one
                        version has it Surry Co., N.C., June 21, 1780, to Rachel Cobb, born 1765—daughter of
                        Capt. Silas Cobb of the Revolution. Rachel died in 1850, is buried in Martin's (her
                        son's) lot near 
                            Evansville
                        . Who was Rachel's mother? I'm told a half Cherokee Indian.
                        Issue 9 children—all born in S. Carolina.
                    James Stinson—born Aug. 18, 1781
                    Sarah Stinson—born Dec. 4, 1873
                    John Brazill Stinson—born March 1, 1785
                    Elizabeth Stinson—born May, 1787
                    Lewis Cobb Stinson—born Jan. 30, 1789
                    William S. Stinson—born June 30, 1793
                    Martin Stinson—born Aug. 1795
                    Benoni Stinson—born Dec. 10, 1798
                    Nancy Stinson—born 1800.
                    Nancy Stinson married Buriah Short, born 1798 in 
                            Virginia
                        . Buriah and Nancy came from 
                            Kentucky
                         to 
                            Evansville
                        , when it was just a trading post in the fall of 1825—in the spring the
                        first baby boy born in 
                            Evansville
                        , March 31, 1826, was Lewis Washington Short. There were eight families. The
                        Kirkpatrick, Shorts, Evans, do not know the names of the others. They took up land where German
                        Township is.
                    Nancy & Buriah Short had issue—not in order of their births.
                    Odum Short—Methodist Minister—Golden City, Mo.
                    Lewis Washington Short—born March 31, 1826
                    Robert Short married Massey
                    James Short
                    John Short—Veteran of War between the States, buried in Soldiers Div. Bellefontaine
                        Cemetery, 
                            Mt. Vernon
                        , Ind.—married Hillyard.
                    Charles Short
                    Mary Short, married Spence Glazor—
                            Evansville
                        
               
                    Harriett Aurelia Short, married Moorehead—
                     Columbus, Ohio
                  .
                    Elizabeth Short
                    Rachel Taylor Short, born March 11, 1837, Died Aug. 23, 1901, buried Locust Hill Cemetery, 
                            Evansville
                        , Ind., married William Jarrett Goodwin, Oct. 11, 1858. There were 15 children, I
                        only know of 10.
                    Would like parents of Buriah or Burrah Short, Elijah Brazill Stinson, Rachel Cobb
                        Stinson's mother.
                    Sarah Webster married Jarrett Goodwin.
                    Sarah Webster born?? Where?? Parents??
                    First married in Gibson Co., Ind., May 13, 1829, to Balaam Wilkinson. They had one daughter,
                        Mary. Mary married Benjamin Frank Trible, Mary and Renj. F. had one daughter, Emma. Emma married
                        Abbott Veach, no issue., 
                            Evansville
                        , Ind.
                    2nd marriage—to Jarrett Goodwin—Where?? When?? Who were
                        Jarrett's parents. Sallie and Jarrett had one son—William Jarrett Goodwin.
                        Jarrett ran a trading boat to 
                            New Orleans
                         and 
                        
                            Mississippi
                        . He died on one of these trips about 1835. William Jarrett Goodwin was born 1834,
                        married Rachel Taylor Short, Oct. 11, 1858, 
                            Evansville
                        , Ind., born March 11, 1837.
                    3d marriage—to James Land, May 18, 1836, issue one son, Levi Land
                        —Vanderburgh Co., Ind., Book #1, page 18.
                    4th marriage—to Painter Marvel—(Sallie) Sarah, died in 1863 in Gibson Co.,
                        Ind.
                    (Will pay $5.00 each for information of Sarah Webster, second cousin to Daniel
                        Webster, also for any information on Jarrett Goodwin).
                    Mrs. Earl J. Carns 650 
                            Baltimore
                        
                        
                            Pike
                        
                        
                            Springfield
                            Pennsylvania
                        
               
                
         
         
            I am writing a book to be entitled The American Lyceum: Town Meeting of the Mind.
                    It is a study of the cultural, historical, and literary aspects of the lecture system in our country
                    from 1830 to 1860. I would be indebted to any of the readers of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History who would let me know if a lyceum existed in their locality before 1860 and,
                    perhaps, where I might write to secure records of the lyceum if it did exist.
            Carl Bode Professor of English University of Maryland College Park, 
                        Maryland
                    
            
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
