
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 98, Issue 1, pages 1-82. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:98+issue:1+year:2002&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Adventurer-Artists of the Nineteenth Century and the Image of the American Indian
            Francis Flavin*
            
            The American Indian became a popular subject for American painters during the early nineteenth
                    century. Artists who lived in the East produced Indian scenes in their studios, and artists who were
                    also adventurers traveled west to paint Indians firsthand in their native surroundings. These
                    paintings created an ideal of the American Indian as a generic Plains Indian, an image that became
                    increasingly popular as the nineteenth century wore on into the twentieth. While artists also
                    painted Indians from non-Plains tribes, these images never acquired the celebrity of the Plains
                    Indian, which reflected American tastes of the early and middle nineteenth century. These tastes,
                    along with the merits of individual artists and bizarre twists of fate, made it difficult for the
                    public to accept alternative versions of the Indian.
            American high culture first embraced the Indian during the 1820s. The esteem of American artists and
                    writers for the Indian following the War of 1812—a war sometimes called the Second War
                    for Independence—reflected two important forces. The first was the need for the young
                    republic to achieve cultural independence from Europe, and this was met by celebrating the Indian,
                    the frontier, and the wilderness that distinguished America from Europe. The second was the rise of
                    the Romantic tradition in America. Romanticism emphasized nature, indigenous customs, and
                    emotion—and Romantics associated the Indian with these terms.1
                    Moreover this representation of the Indian emerged after the eastern half of the country had secured
                    itself against any serious threat from the aboriginal population, which permitted easterners to see
                    Indians as less menacing than before. Although Americans in the older region still may have seen the
                    Indian as savage—at least so far as savagery was antithetical to
                    civilization—they also could see him as noble, and the Romantic impulse facilitated this
                    ennoblement. To those who contemplated the fate of the Indians it appeared that civilization would
                    inevitably sweep them aside, hence Indians were a "vanishing race." This view was
                    quintessen- 
                  
                     * Frances Flavin is a graduate student in American history
                            at Indiana University, completing his doctorate on the Sioux as America's Indian.
                  
                     1 Robert F. Berkhofer, Jr., The White Man's
                                Indian: Images of the American Indian from 
                                    Columbus
                                 to the Present (
                                New York
                            , 1978), 86-87.
               
                     tially Romantic, because the Indian's seemingly
                    inevitable fate struck a tragic chord. Thus, from the 1820s through the 1850s, America's
                    literary and intellectual elite idealized the Indian in his native condition as noble, perhaps
                    savage, uniquely American, and vanishing.2
            
            The Indians living east of the 
                        Mississippi
                     who had been "civilized" or partly assimilated into Anglo-American
                    life failed to stir the imagination of Romantic thinkers, who were drawn only to the Indian in his
                    native condition. Since eastern Indians had lost their luster, the Romantics had only two choices:
                    either they could work from historical models, or they could work from contemporary models.
            The first option, working from history, could be accomplished with creative imagination. Writers
                    could reinterpret history in their stories, as James Fenimore Cooper did from the 1820s through the
                    1840s when he wrote with a Romantic bent about a youthful Leather-stocking who lived during the
                    second half of the eighteenth century. Although colonists living during the French and Indian War
                    certainly had seen the Indians as more savage than noble, Cooper, in The Last of the
                        Mohicans (1826), imposed on events situated in that period a Romantic interpretation that
                    reflected his own time. Likewise, artists like Thomas Cole could portray historical Indians with a
                    Romantic brush, as Cole did in Scene from the Last of the Mohicans (1826), View on Lake Winnipiseogee (1827), and Falls of Kaaterskill
                        (1826).3 However, working from historical images was difficult because much
                    representation of Indians produced during the sixteenth, seventeenth, and eighteenth centuries was
                    either crude or un-Romantic. The popular sixteenth-century woodcuts of Theodore de Bry, for example,
                    did not depict the Indian that nineteenth century Americans wanted to see. Hence contemporary
                    artists discarded historical images and looked elsewhere for models that satisfied their Romantic
                        worldview.4
            
            Those who chose to work with contemporary subjects were unable to find the "right
                    sort" of models east of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . Eastern Indians had become too "corrupted" by the vices of
                    civilization. To find the Indian in his natural state, artists had to look west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , where the equestrian tribes of the high plains were living in the "golden
                    age" of their horse and buffalo culture. Their nomadic lifestyle provided an appealing
                    model, and, consequently, the Romantics created their "new" Indian from the tribes
                    of the Great Plains.
            
               
                  2
                        Ibid., 86-92; Brian W. Dippie, The Vanishing American: White
                            Attitudes and U.S. Indian Policy (
                            Middletown
                        , Conn., 1982), xii, 13-18.
               
                  3 Asher B. Durand, another painter of the Hudson River School, also
                        painted a scene entitled Last of the Mohicans.
               
               
                  4 Furthermore, the visual record of American Indians was sparse. With the
                        passage of frontier conditions American artists had better access to painting materials and
                        printers to reproduce their work—which meant that expression through painting was a
                        more viable option to those who wished to pursue it.
            
            
            
               THOMAS COLE, FALLS OF THE KAATERSKILL (1826)
               Courtesy of Warner Collection of Gulf States Paper Corporation,
                                
                     Tuscaloosa, Alabama
                  
               
            
            During the last decades of the eighteenth century and the first half of the nineteenth century, a new
                    kind of artist appeared on the world stage. These men left their studios and forayed into new,
                    distant, or exotic lands to render subjects that were little known to Europeans and Americans. Some
                    undertook journeys on their own; others traveled with a sponsor or a corporate or government
                    expedition. The adventurer-artist was not unique to America; during this period European artists
                    explored Africa, Asia, Oceania, the Americas, 
                        Antarctica
                    , and the remote regions of Europe. In 1831 Count Charles de Mornay, ambassador to the
                    sultan of 
                        Morocco
                    , took Eugene Delacroix with him to Algiers, and in 1837 Anatole Demidoff, prince of San
                        
                    
                  THEODORE DE BRY, INDIAAN CONJURER (1590), FROM A DRAWING BY
                            JOHN WHITE
                  Thomas Hariot, A Briefe and True Report of the New Found Land of 
                                    Virginia
                                
                      (Frankfurt am Main, 
                                Germany
                            , 1590)
                Donato and a Parisian intellectual, hired Auguste Raffet to paint scenes during his trip
                    to the Caucasus. The work of these artists helped to acquaint nineteenth-century Europe and the 
                        United States
                     with the non-European world and to provide the images that came to represent that
                        world.5
            
            
               
                  5 J. R. Abbey, Travel in Aquatint and Lithography
                            1770–1860: From the Library ofJ. R. Abbey: A Bibliographical Critique (2
                        vols., 
                            London
                        , 1956). For illustrated travel accounts see John 
                            Campbell
                        , Travels in South Afncu (
                            London
                        , 1815); Samuel Daniell, African Scenery and Animals (
                            London
                        , 1804–1805); John Barrow, Travels into the Interior of
                            Southern Africa (2 vols., 
                            London
                        , 1806); William Daniell and Samuel Daniell, Sketches Representing the
                            Native Tribes, Animals, and Sceneiy of Southern Africa (
                            London
                        , 1820); William J. Burchell, Travels in the Interior of Southern
                            Africa (2 vols., 
                            London
                        , 1822-1824); John 
                            Campbell
                        , Travels in 
                                South Africa
                            … A Second Journey (2 vols., 
                            London
                        , 1822); George Thompson, Travels and Adventures in Southern
                        Africa (2 vols., 
                            London
                        , 1827); Allen F. Gardiner, Narrative of a Journey to the Zoolu Country
                            in 
                                South Africa
                            
                   (
                            London
                        , 1836); W. Cornwallis Harris, The Wild Sports of Southern Africa (
                            London
                        , 1839); Harris, Portraits of the Game and Wild Animals of
                        Southern
                    
            
            
            Adventurer-artists played a critical role in shaping America's popular image of the Indian.
                    Because the Plains Indian could be depicted only by painters on the scene, artists who visited these
                    tribes produced much of the new artwork. Unfortunately, the Lewis and Clark expedition of
                    1804–1806, perhaps the greatest adventure into America's West, was undertaken
                    without the services of an artist. Meriwether Lewis had intended to publish a handsomely illustrated
                    account of his trip "embellished with a number of plates illustrative of the dress and
                    general appearance of [the] Indian nations" they visited, along with "their
                    habitations; their weapons and habiliments used in war; their hunting and fishing apparatus,
                    & c." Lewis expected to hire the famed 
                        Philadelphia
                     artist and naturalist, Charles Will-son Peale, to create the illustrations. However,
                    after Lewis's death in 1809, William Clark, admitting his limitations as a writer, turned
                    the project over to Nicholas Biddle, who published an account of the expedition in 1814, but without
                        illustrations.6
            
            This mistake was not repeated when Major Stephen H. Long explored the Rockies in
                    1819–1820. Peale persuaded the war department to allow his son Titian Ramsay Peale and
                    Samuel Seymour to serve as artists for the expedition. Long journeyed from Saint Louis up the 
                        Missouri
                    , up the Platte, then southward along the eastern edge of the Rockies until he reached
                    the 
                        Arkansas
                    . There, he split his force, one group traveling down the 
                        Arkansas
                     and the other down the Canadian, and ultimately, the two parties rendezvoused at Fort
                    Smith on the 
                        Arkansas
                    . The artists were very productive on the trip, executing nearly three hundred sketches
                    and watercolors between them. They created the first Euro-American illustrations of the buffalo hide
                    teepee, a buffalo grazing on the open plains, and the equestrian Plains warrior. Although each of
                    these subjects came to symbolize the American Indian, the works of Peale and Seymour did not
                    influence the popular image of the American Indian. Only a handful of the renderings were
                    published—most of them landscapes—in the 1823 travel account, which received
                    mixed reviews, and the illustrations that did appear failed to satisfy Romantic tastes.7
            
            The successors of Peale and Seymour in the following decade created some of the most famous
                    depictions of the American Indian, 
                  
                     Africa (
                                London
                            , 1840–1841); Henry 
                                Butler
                            , South African Sketches (
                                London
                            , 1841); George French Angas, The Kafirs Illustrated (
                                London
                            , 1849); Angas, South 
                                    Australia
                                 Illustrated (
                                London
                            , 1847); David Livingstone, Missionary Travels and Researches in 
                                    South Africa
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1857).
                  
                     6 Quotation from Meriwether Lewis's
                            "Prospectus" in John C. Ewers, Artists of the Old West (
                                Garden City
                            , N. Y., 1965), 21.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 23-37; Edwin James, Account of an expedition from 
                                    Pittsburgh
                                 to the Rocky mountains
                      (2 vols., Philaldelphia,
                            1823). The account included eight illustrations, six of which were landscapes; five
                            additional Seymour scenes were included in a 
                                London
                             edition. The book sold few copies because of its tedious style and the
                            overwhelming quantity of its scientific observations.
               
                     important not only because they gave graphic form to the idea of
                    the Indian but also because they conveyed valuable ethnographic and historical information. The two
                    greatest adventurer-artists of the era were George Catlin and Karl Bodmer.8
                    Taken together, the work of these men and their emulators has had tremendous impact on the way
                    Americans and Europeans of the era imagined the American Indian.
            Catlin (1796–1872) was the most dedicated and most prolific. In 1821 in 
                        Philadelphia
                     he encountered a delegation of "noble and dignified-looking Indians, from the
                    wilds of the ‘Far West’…. " So intrigued was Catlin by
                    these "lords of the forest" who "strutted about the city" in
                    "silent and stoic dignity" that he dedicated himself to "becoming their
                        historian."9 Twenty years later Catlin claimed that upon this visit
                    he had resolved to devote himself 
                        to the production of a literal and graphic delineation … of an interesting race of
                            people, who are rapidly passing away from the face of the earth—lending a hand to
                            a dying nation, who have no historians or biographers of their own to pourtray (sic) with fidelity their native looks and history; thus snatching from a hasty
                            oblivion what could be saved for the benefit of posterity, and perpetuating it, as a fair
                            and just monument, to the memory of a truly lofty and noble race.10
                  
                     Catlin spent the summers of 1832 and 1834 traveling among the tribes of the Upper 
                        Missouri
                     and the southern Plains. His art combined an attempt at scientik realism with the
                    era's characteristic Romanticism, and most of his writings are heavy with Romantic
                    sentiments. He thought that the Indians were in a state of "rapid declension" and
                    soon would vanish. Furthermore, he claimed that the "honourable" attributes of the
                    Indians were discernable only when they were in a pristine, precontact state. Catlin believed that
                    nearly 70 percent of the two million contemporary American Indians were "already the
                    miserable living victims and dupes of the white man's cupidity, degraded, discouraged and
                    lost in the bewildering maze" of "whiskey and its concomitant vices."11 Only the Plains tribes had not yet suffered the consequences of the white
                    man's influence. While Catlin painted a broad 
                  
                     8 For the best monographs on Catlin see Brian W. Dippie, Catlin and His Contemporaries: The Politics of Patronage (Lincoln, Nebr., 1990);
                            William H. Truettner, The Natural Man Obserued: A Study ofCatlin's
                                Indian Gallery (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1979). For Bodmer see Maximilian Wied, People of the First
                                Man: Life Among the Plains Indians in Their Final Days of Glory: The Firsthand Account
                                of Prince Maximilian's Expedition up the 
                                    Missouri
                                 Riuer, 1833–34, eds. Davis Thomas and Karin Ronnefeldt (
                                New York
                            , 1976); William J. Orr, Karl Bodmer's America
                            (Lincoln, Nebr., 1984); Megan Harding, ed., Tribes of the Buffalo: A Swiss
                                Artist on the American Frontier (
                        Cleveland, Ohio
                     ,
                            1994).
                  
                     9 George Catlin, Letters and Notes on the Manners,
                                Customs, and Condition of North American Zndians (2 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1841; reprinted in one volume, 
                                New York
                            , 1973), 2.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., 4.
                  
                     11 Ibid., 4-7.
               
                    
                    
                  GEORGE CATLIN, BUFFALO HUNT, CHASE
                  
                  George Catlin, North American Indian Portfolio (1844); image
                            courtesy of Yale Collection of Western Americana, Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript
                        Library
               
                    
                    
                  GEORGE CATLIN, BALL PLAYERS
                  
                  George Catlin, North American Indian Portfolio (1844); image
                            courtesy of Yale Collection of Western Americana, Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript
                        Library
                range of Indian tribes, Plains Indians, in their "natural" state, were
                    his favorite and principal subjects.12
            
            Catlin succeeded in capturing the Plains Indians both on canvas and in prose. His notes were copious,
                    and his plentiful landscapes, portraits, and scenes of Indian life were striking and unique. Catlin
                    introduced the Plains Indians to east coast Americans and to Western Europeans. His Letters and Notes on the Manners, Customs, and Conditions of the North American Indians,
                    published first in 1841, included 312 engravings. It received multiple printings and was translated
                    into German, French, and Swedish. While this was the most widely disseminated of Catlin's
                    works, Catlin's North American Indian Portfolio followed in 1844, a
                    strikingly handsome collec- 
                  
                     12 He praised the Plains Indians lavishly; for example, of the Sioux
                            Catlin said the "personal appearance of these people is very fine and
                            prepossessing, their persons tall and straight, and their movements elastic and
                            graceful." Ibid., 208. For an elaboration of Catlin's
                            attitude towards the Plains Indians see Truettner, Natural Man Observed,
                            69-80. See also William H. Goetzmann and William N. Goetzmann, The West of The
                                Imagination (
                                New York
                            , 1986) 15-35; Herman J. Viola et al., "The American
                            Indian Genre Paintings," American Frontier Life: Early Western
                                Painting and Prints (
                                New York
                            , 1987), 131-65.
               
                     tion of lithographs, as well as other works.13 And, in addition to publishing books, from 1833 through the end of the decade Catlin also
                    took his "Indian gallery" throughout the country, visiting 
                  Pittsburgh, Cincinnati,
                            Louisville, Philadelphia, Boston, New York
               , and 
                        Washington
                    , D.C. He later took his work to 
                        London
                     and 
                        Paris
                    ; in all, his exhibition spent more than thirty years in Europe. These shows sometimes
                    included tepees, costumed mannequins, and enactments of Indian dances by 
                        Iowa
                     and Chippewa natives. An indefatigable marketer, Catlin targeted a youthful audience as
                    well as adults. He published an abridgement of his writings tailored especially for young boys, Life Among the Indians: A Book for Youth, in 
                        London
                     in 1861 and in 
                        New York
                     in 1867. In 1909, Charles Scribner's Sons published The
                        Boy's Catlin: My Life Among the Indians, again directed at young boys of
                        America.14
            
            Karl Bodmer (1809–1893), a Swiss draftsman, accompanied Prince Maximilian of Wied on an
                    expedition to the 
                        United States
                     to study America's aborigines. Bodmer and the Prussian prince left Europe in
                    1832, spent the winter of 1832–1833 in 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, and proceeded up the Missouri River from Saint Louis in
                    1833. They spent the next winter at Fort Clark, in present-day 
                        North Dakota
                    , and returned to Saint Louis and then to Europe in 1834. Bodmer was hired to sketch and
                    paint samples of the flora, fauna, landscapes, and natives that he and Maximilian encountered on
                    their voyage. His work is detailed, accurate, and comprehensive; it is still valuable to
                    ethnographers who study the Indians of the Upper 
                        Missouri
                    . Although some disagree, William H. Goetzmann believes that Bodmer, no less than
                    Catlin, was "overwhelmed by … ‘the romantic horizon’ of
                    new and exotic sensations."15
            
            Bodmer created well over three hundred watercolors and sketches during his travels across the 
                        United States
                     and up the 
                        Missouri
                    .16 As was customary, Maximilian—as a great
                    traveler—intended to publish an account of his journeys. However, he envisioned something
                    more ambitious than the standard quarto volume with a handful of accompanying lithographs.
                    Maximilian decided to publish accounts of his travels in German, French, and English editions and
                    enlisted Bodmer's help in illustrating his text. From his three hundred 
                  
                     13 See also A Descriptive Catalogue ofCatlin's
                                Indian Collection (
                                London
                            , 1848); George Catlin, Life Among the Indians (
                                New York
                            , 1857); Catlin, O-Kee-Pa: A Religious Ceremony (
                                London
                            , 1867); Catlin, Last Rambles Among the Indians of the Rocky
                                Mountains and the Andes (
                                New York
                            , 1867).
                  
                     14 George Catlin, Life Amongst the Indiuns: A Book for
                                Youth (
                                London
                            , 1867); Catlin, Life Among the Indians: A Book for Youth (
                                New York
                            , 1867); Catlin, The Boy's Catlin: My Life Among the
                                Indians, ed. Mary Gay Humphreys (
                                New York
                            , 1909).
                  
                     15 Paul Schach, "Maximilian, Prince of Wied
                            (1782–1867), Reconsidered," Great Plains Quarterly,
                            XIV (Winter 1994), 3-20; Harding, Tribes of the Buffalo, 16-17; William H.
                            Goetzmann et al.,Karl Bodmer's America ([Omaha, Nebr.], 1984),
                            22.
                  
                     16 Goetzmann et al., Karl Bodmer's America,
                            41-345.
               
                    
                    
                  KARL BODMER, PEHRISKA-RUHPA, OR "TWO
                            RAVENS" (MINNATAREE INDIAN)
                  Maximilian, Prince of Wied, Illustmtions to Maximilian Prince of
                                Wied's Travels in the Interior of North America (1844)
               
                     watercolors, Bodmer selected eighty-one images to reproduce as
                    aquatints for the publication, Reise in das Innere Nord-America, or in English,
                        Travels in the Interior of North America. Although Bodmer's field
                    sketches and watercolors depicted scenes from all across America, the published aquatints showed
                    principally scenes from the Upper 
                        Missouri
                    : wildlife, landscapes, and Plains Indians and their accoutrements. A separate portfolio
                    of "Atlas Aquatints" could be obtained through subscription, but
                    Maximilian's estate sustained a loss on the project because the aquatints did not sell
                    well. While there were 275 German subscriptions to Maximilian's texts, fewer than 60
                    subscribers requested hand-colored editions. Thus, though the reproductions were stunningly
                    lifelike, authentic, and colorful, Bodmer's art did not reach a wide audience: in the
                    nineteenth century his work was neither as widely exhibited as Catlin's nor as frequently
                        reproduced.17
            
            Catlin and Bodmer did much to document American Indian life in the middle of the nineteenth century,
                    and their greatest and most significant work depicted Plains Indians.18
                    Historians, novelists, anthropologists, and enthusiasts have returned frequently to them in search
                    of information. The style, the range, and—especially in Bodmer's
                    case—the quality of their pictures have given these sources an enduring charm and have
                    made the Plains Indian recognizable to the world.
            Catlin and Bodmer also had an indirect effect on the popular perceptions of Native Americans. Their
                    examples inspired other artists to draw and paint the Plains Indian; publishers sought Indian
                    illustrations based directly upon their works (as was the case for the original edition of Francis
                    Parkman's 
                  
                            Oregon
                         Trail); and their work was appropriated and modified by lesser artists who
                    then placed the new pictures in a wide array of media. History texts, novels, and literary works
                    included visual representations of Indians that borrowed heavily from the paintings of Catlin and
                    Bodmer. The Indian lithographs of Currier and Ives, a major vehicle for the dissemination of the
                    image of the Indian, drew heavily from the Catlin and Bodmer exhibits in 
                  
                     17 Wied, People of the First Man, 12; John C. Ewers,
                                The Emergence of the Plains Indian as the Symbol of the North American
                                Indian (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1965), 535-36; Maximilian, Prince of Wied, Illustrations to
                                Maximilian Prince of Wied's Travels in the Interior of North America (
                                London
                            , 1844); Maximilian, Prince of Wied, Reise in das Innere
                                Nord-America in den Jahren 1832 bis 1834 (Travels in the Interior of North America in
                                the Years 1832 to 1834): Atlas Aquatints (
                                London
                            , 1839). Some of the subscribers included the kings of Prussia and 
                                Denmark
                            , the queen of 
                                Hanover
                            , the princess of Lowenstein, Prince Fredrich of the Netherlands, and the royal
                            family of Lichtenstein. Harding, Tribes of the Buffalo, 12-13.
                  
                     18 Catlin as an individual and Maximilian and Bodmer as a duo spent
                            much time among the Mandans, who were sedentary and quite hospitable, while many other
                            Plains tribes were nomadic. Because these three men had close and lengthy contact with them,
                            the Mandan tribe was probably documented more extensively than other tribes these men
                            visited; however, images of the Sioux are the most numerous.
               
                    
                    
                        New York
                    's Astor Library.19 "Railroads, Indians, and the
                    West" was second only to "clipper ships" in subjects the public demanded
                    for prints.20 Other artists of the mid-nineteenth century who helped to
                    popularize the Plains tribes were often inspired, to one extent or another, by the endeavors of
                    Catlin and Bodmer.
            One adventurer-artist who seems not to have been influenced by Catlin and Bodmer was the 
                        Baltimore
                     painter, Alfred Jacob Miller. In 1837 Scottish nobleman William Drummond Stewart, who
                    had served under Wellington in his campaigns against Napoleon, hired Miller to accompany him on an
                    expedition into America's West. Mired in a dull marriage and alienated from his older
                    brother, who inherited the family estate, Stewart in 1833 escaped to America "for the sole
                    purpose of penetrating the great wilderness of the West."21 While in
                    Saint Louis in 1833, Stewart had happened to meet Prince Maximilian. The two men had discussed the
                    possibility of uniting their expeditions, but because Maximilian pursued science and Stewart the
                    hunt, they decided against a joint venture. Stewart probably learned that Maximilian was to bring
                    along Bodmer as the expedition's artist, and this may have inspired Stewart to approach
                    Miller in 
                        New Orleans
                     in 1837 to serve as the artist for a grand hunting trip to the Rocky Mountains.22
            
            It is unlikely that Miller was much influenced by the work of either Catlin or Bodmer. Miller had not
                    seen Catlins paintings, and it is unlikely that he had even heard of Bodmer and almost certainly had
                    not seen any of his work, since Bodmer was only then preparing his water-colors to be transformed
                    into aquatints for publication.23 Miller's Indians were more often
                    types than real Indians, while Bodmer's Indians were real—they were often
                    renditions of actual individuals whom Bodmer painted as they appeared. Catlin's paintings
                    were more hurried and less precise than Bodmer's, but, like Bodmer, he was interested in
                    the Indians. Since Miller was interested in the spirit of the hunt and, of course, in pleasing
                    Stewart, his work does not focus on Indians. Nevertheless, Indians pervade the imagery of
                    Miller's West. He painted Shoshoni Indians, the Sioux, the Crow, the Pawnee, the 
                  
                     19 John C. Ewers, Indian Life on the Upper 
                                    Missouri
                                
                      (
                                Norman
                            , Okla., 1968; reprint, 1988), 195-98. See also Rick Stewart, Joseph D. Ketner
                            II, and Angela L. Miller, Carl Wimar: Chronicler of the Missouri
                                    River Frontier (Fort Worth, Tex., 1991), 25, 37, 38, 146-47, 151-53,
                            156-58, 165-66.
                  
                     20 Fred J. Peters, Railroad, Zndian, and Pioneer Prints
                                by N. Currier and Currier and Ives (
                                New York
                            , 1930), 9.
                  
                     21 Tyler, Alfred Jacob Miller, 19-21.
                  
                            22
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     23
                            Ibid. It is difficult to determine exactly how Prince Maximilian
                            influenced Sir William. While it seems probable that there was an exchange of ideas between
                            the two men when they met in Saint Louis in 1833, there were other cases in which artists
                            accompanied wealthy travelers on exotic trips from which Stewart may have drawn his
                            inspiration. Marvin C. Ross, The West of Alfred Jacob Miller (1837) (
                                Norman
                            , Okla., 1951), xvii.
               
                     Nez Percé, the Kaw, and the 
                        Kansas
                    , among others, as well as a generic Indian. Most of his Indians—whether
                    specific individuals or generic types—were from Plains tribes. They wore feathered
                    headdresses, were mounted on horseback, and hunted buffalo. Tepees abounded in Miller's
                    scenery.
            Miller's artistic outpouring from his adventure with Stewart was prodigious. He executed
                    just over two hundred field sketches from his trip to the Rockies, and because Miller replicated and
                    refined his own work, more than six hundred paintings of his western travels are known to exist
                        today.24 But Miller seemed uninterested in promoting his frontier artwork
                    and displayed his paintings in only a few exhibits. He showed them in his native 
                        Baltimore
                    , and he displayed a set of eighteen paintings at the Apollo Gallery in 
                        New York
                     in 1839. The viewing public was said to have received the paintings warmly. He later
                    exhibited in 
                  Baltimore, Philadelphia
               , and 
                        New York
                    , but it is unclear how much of what he exhibited was from his trip to the West. Stewart
                    had asked Miller to attempt a set of lithographs for an account of their travels, but Miller, citing
                    illness, declined, and no account was published.25 Miller replicated many of his
                    field sketches for Stewart at Murthly Castle and for other patrons, but his work never loomed large
                    in the public eye. As historian Peter Hasrick has noted, while Catlin caused a social and political
                    clamor over preserving the memory of a vanishing race, "Miller contented himself with
                    having savored the taste of a rare holiday, an experience he would share guardedly with intimates
                    and select patrons."26
            
            Miller's work had not enjoyed a wide audience in his own day, and by the middle of the
                    nineteenth century his paintings were known only to a handful of patrons. His western paintings were
                    divided 
                  
                     24 Ewers, Artists of the Old West, 135-36.
                  
                     25 Stewart, aware of Prince Maximilian's decision to employ
                            Bodmer and aware that both Catlin and Bodmer were publishing attractive portfolios of
                            colored prints, asked Miller to consider a similar undertaking in February 1842. Miller
                            responded, "I received your esteemed favor of the 20th and must ask your kind
                            indulgence until I reach home before I attempt the lithographs…. I am sure I
                            should not like to offer any things of the kind without having bestowed some labour on them
                            and I feel that this would be impossible at the present as I am sick both in body and
                            mind—a depression and anxiety hangs over me that I cannot throw off. I shall
                            think myself fortunate in being able to finish the present picture at which I am steadily
                            working." Miller produced several prints when he returned to 
                                Baltimore
                            . He also permitted Charles Willrins Webber to produce chomolithographs for The Hunter-Naturalist: The Romance of Sporting (1854) and The
                                Hunter-Naturalist: Wild Scenes and Song-Birds (1854), each of which had five plates
                            based on work from Miller's western adventure. One of Miller's more
                            renowned paintings, Lost on the Prairies, was published as a separate
                            chromolithograph. Miller's lithographic credits were meager, however. When Miller
                            was making his decision in 1842 about whether to publish his Indian pictures in a joint
                            venture with Stewart he had to consider whether the market would bear yet more volumes on
                            this theme. Thomas McKenney and James Hall had already published three volumes of Indian
                            portraits in the 1830s, and Catlin and Bodmer had begun recently to publish their impressive
                            work. These considerations discouraged him from agreeing to Stewart's proposal.
                            Tyler, Alfred Jacob Miller, 44.
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., 19-21, 4-5. See also Ross, West of Alfred Jacob
                            Miller, xxiii-xxvii.
               
                    
                    
                  ALFRED JACOB MILLER, THE TRAPPER'S BRIDE (1850)
                  Courtesy of Josylyn Art Museum
                among his heirs until the mid-1930s when western history afficionado Mae Reed Porter found
                    the collection on a visit to 
                        Baltimore
                    . She soon purchased a large number of his pictures. A decade later 
                        Oklahoma
                     oil baron and art collector Thomas Gilcrease also began to buy Miller's
                    paintings. Their Miller collections are housed in the Joslyn Art Museum in Omaha, 
                        Nebraska
                    , and the Gilcrease Museum in Tulsa, 
                        Oklahoma
                    . Subsequently, Miller's art has evoked widespread enthusiasm. Since the
                    mid-1940s, his western oils and watercolors have been reproduced in numerous books on
                    America's West, the Rocky Mountain fur trade, and Native Americans.27
                    Miller's paintings were dreamy, timeless, and quintessentially Romantic, and their artistic
                    merit has prompted considerable praise. And, because many twentieth-century Americans continue to
                    appreciate the Romantic Indian, Miller's work attracts an audience, though
                    nineteenth-century audiences hardly noticed it.
            
               
                  27 Joan Carpenter Troccoli, Alfred Jacob Miller: Watercolors
                            of the American West (Tulsa, Okla., 1990), 2; Tyler, Alfred Jacob
                        Miller, 6.
            
            
            While Miller was not influenced by Catlin or Bodmer, Carl Wimar (1828–1862) surely was. A
                    German-born immigrant to Saint Louis, who painted numerous scenes of frontier and Indian life during
                    the 1850s, Wimar was solidly within their tradition. Although Wimar visited the Upper 
                        Missouri
                     in 1858-1859, many of his Indian paintings were completed before he traveled up the 
                        Missouri
                    ; his conception of the American Indian was based on the work of other artists,
                    especially that of Catlin and Bodmer.28 Not all Wimar's subjects were
                    Plains Indians: he executed two notable oil-on-canvas versions of Abduction of Daniel 
                            Boone
                        's Daughter by the Indians (1853) and another oil on canvas of the 
                        Florida
                     Seminole chief Billy Bowlegs. However, most of his western paintings featured Plains
                    motifs such as the buffalo, equestrianism, the Plains landscape, and skirmishes between Indians and
                    Americans. Wimar reinforced the linkage between the Indian and the buffalo and thus helped to
                    underscore the representativeness of the Plains Indian to the Euro-American public. Furthermore,
                    Wimar's images were Romantic, and his work served to further associate the Plains Indian
                    with Romantic sentiments.
            Wimar's Attack on an Emigrant Train (1854, 1856) was an especially popular
                    work. It was recognized by his contemporaries at art school in 
                        Germany
                     as a commendable painting. When Wimar returned from 
                        Germany
                     to the 
                        United States
                    , he exhibited the painting in 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Boston
                    , where it was purchased by Governor 
                        Hamilton
                     Gamble of 
                        Missouri
                    . Reproduced by prominent lithographer Leopold Grozelier in 1860, the print was
                    distributed nationwide and did much to develop the myth that Indians regularly attacked emigrant
                    wagon trains. Felix O. C. Darley, who never traveled to the West but was ‘perhaps the
                    most successful western illustrator of his era,’ copied the print soon after it appeared.
                    Darley's knowledge of the West came principally from other artists, especially Wimar and
                    Catlin. Attack on an Emigrant Train was copied on a large scale by Thomas Hill,
                    and it also inspired the German-American artist Emanuel Leutze, who painted 
                  
                            Washington
                         Crossing the 
                            Delaware
                        
               , to produce a similar work. In 1869 Wimar's version won first prize
                    at the Saint Louis Annual Fair, and in 1893 it was displayed at the World's Columbian
                    Exhibition in 
                        Chicago
                     in the "Retrospective Exhibit of American Paintings." Indeed,
                    scholars have concluded that Wimar's Attack influenced the work of all
                    subsequent western artists who treated the subject and that even John Ford, the director of
                    Hollywood westerns, consulted it.29
            
            Wimar linked the Indian to the emigrant wagon train as well as to the buffalo, and in doing so he
                    emphasized the adventure of moving West and the courage of the pioneer. The 
                        Oregon
                     and Cali- 
                  
                     28 Stewart et al., Carl Wimar, 37, 69, 157.
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., 67-69; William Romaine Hodges, Carl Wimar: A
                            Biography (Galveston, Tex., 1908), 16.
               
                    
                    
                  CARL WIMAR, ATTACK ON AN EMIGRANT TRAIN (1856)
                  Bequest of Henry C. Lewis, University of 
                                Michigan
                             Museum of Art
               
                     fornia overland migrations reflected both the westering nature
                    of American life and the realization of manifest destiny. Wimar's Attack on an
                        Emigrant Train, like Francis Parkman's The 
                            Oregon
                         Trail (18491, connected the Indian with the idea of manifest destiny.
            Clearly, the quality, the artistic appeal, and the widespread dissemination of artwork by Catlin,
                    Bodmer, and their disciples did much to publicize the Plains Indians during the first half of the
                    nineteenth century. Their work laid the foundation for the ascendency of the Plains Indian image,
                    both in the 
                        United States
                     and in Europe.
            It is reasonable to ask why no other type of Indian seemed to rival the Plains Indian in the American
                    imagination during the mid-nineteenth century. There were other artists painting other Indian
                    subjects at the time: why has their legacy failed to influence Euro-American perceptions more
                    strongly in the twentieth century and beyond? A simplified answer is that these artists were less
                    talented, failed to supply an image of the Indian that consumers wanted, or produced a corpus that
                    did not survive.
            James Otto Lewis is an example of an artist who depicted native people principally from the Old
                    Northwest and Great Lakes. He painted dozens of the Indians who gathered for the negotiation of the
                    treaties of 
                        Prairie
                     du Chien (1825), Fond du Lac (1826), Mississinewa on the 
                        Wabash
                     (1826), and Green Bay (1827). Lewis published his work in ten portfolio installments,
                    beginning in 1835, before any of Catlin's work had appeared. Lewis's portfolios
                    were relatively affordable, only two dollars each, and like Catlin he had traveled west to see
                    Indians closer to their aboriginal settings so that his paintings might be "faithfully and
                    accurately given." He emphasized that he painted "while travelling through a
                    wilderness, far removed from the abodes of civilization."30
            
            But Lewis's work failed to find a large audience. His portraits were blocky, labored, and
                    uninspiring, and he never attempted to paint action scenes. Of the seventy-two plates in the Aboriginal Port Folio, two were landscapes, fifty-six were bust portraits, and
                    fourteen were full-length portraits. Moreover, although Lewis concentrated on portraiture, he lacked
                    the basic ability to render a human face. One twentieth-century critic opined that "[elyes
                    and giant noses wandered about his Indian faces, anticipating Picasso without the
                        intention."31 Many of Lewis's Indians wore Euro-American
                    clothing, and because they were painted in either bust-portraits or static full-length likenesses,
                    these Indians were shown separated from their native environs. In fact, many looked quite
                    assimilated. Euro-Americans of the nineteenth century who longed to see "natural"
                    and "wild" Indians did not find them in Lewis's Aboriginal
                        Port Folio.
            
            
               
                  30 James Otto Lewis, The Aboriginal Port Folio (10
                        vols., 
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1835). Other editions were published in 1838, 1844, 1850, and 1853.
               
                  31 Dippie, Catlin and His Contemporaries, 87.
            
            
            
               JAMES OTTO LEWIS, WINNEBAGO SQUAW (1835)
               James Otto Lewis, The Aboriginal Port Folio (1835)
            
            As a result Lewis's work did not sell well. After the ninth installment he encountered
                    significant financial difficulties, and even fewer copies of the tenth installment were produced
                    than had been printed for the first nine. After the first edition, few succeeding editions of his
                        Aboriginal Port Folio were published, and complete sets have proven to be
                        rare.32 None of the Indian portraits among the more than 250 drawings that
                    Lewis reportedly made have been discovered. Forty-five of Lewis's paintings, mostly
                    portraits from his Aboriginal Port Folio, were reproduced in Thomas McKenney and
                    James Hall's History of the Indian Tribes of North America, a
                    three-volume 
                  
                     32"J. O. Lewis' [sic] Aboriginal
                            Portfolio," http//www.philaprintshop.oom/lewhist.html.
               
                     work originally published between 1838 and 1844. Other than
                    that, it seems Lewis's artwork received a very limited circulation.33
            
            The strengths of Catlin's work are apparent when compared with Lewis's offerings.
                    Catlin's Letters and Notes, published five years after Lewis's
                    portfolios, offered more drawings in more categories, including 300 "Indian
                    Portraits," 93 "landscapes," 17 "Sporting Scenes," 30
                    "Amusements," 29 "Manners and Customs," 4 "Mandan
                    Religious Ceremonies," and 6 "Indian Curiosities." The North
                        American Indian Portfolio that Catlin published in 1844 showed Indians in action. In his
                    portfolio Catlin offered 25 plates—ach executed more skillfblly than any of
                    Lewis's. Even Catlin's few still-lifes seemed to impart an important message.34 The other plates in Catlin's portfolio showed Indian life: hunting
                    scenes, dances, and Indian games, for example. Although Catlin himself had artistic weaknesses, his
                    works had more spirit than did any of Lewis's, and in comparison with Lewis he was clearly
                    the superior artist.
            Like Bodmer, Miller, and Wimar, Catlin evoked an emotional response from viewers. Painted by
                    Romantics, Indians appeared noble, natural, and native. These Indians—Indians of the
                    Plains—dressed in buckskins, rode horses, hunted buffalo, lived in tepees, and wore
                    feathers; in short, they were unmistakably Indians, unlike the assimilated, partly
                    "civilized" Indians Lewis pictured.
            Moreover, Lewis had offered little textual information to supplement his artwork. Catlin's
                        Letters and Notes contained several hundred pages of text reporting his
                    adventures among the Indians of the Upper 
                        Missouri
                    , and his North American Indian Portfolio offered several paragraphs
                    of descriptive and didactic text along with each image. These descriptions, using Romantic imagery
                    and supplying firsthand information, undoubtedly enhanced the marketability of his publications. For
                    example, Catlin closes his description of the ball players in plate number 23 with the following:
                        
                  
                     33 Christian F. Feest, "G. Winter, Artist," in Indians and a Changing Frontier: The Art of George Winter, ed. Sarah E.
                            Cooke and Rachel B. Ramadhyani (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1993), 16; Dippie, Catlin and His Contemporaries, 85-87.
                  
                     34 One of the "stories" that a still-life from
                            Catlin's Portfolio told was that of Ti-Jun-Jon, The
                            Pigeon's Egg Head." Wi-Jun-Jon was an Assiniboine Indian who had gone to 
                                Washington
                             as a delegate of his tribe. When he departed for 
                                Washington
                            , he was clad in buckskins and accoutered in fine chiefly regalia. This Catlin
                            depicted on the left pane of his image; on the right pane Catlin showed Wi-Jun-Jon on his
                            return. He returned to his tribe dressed in a soldier's uniform, smoking a
                            cigarette, leaning on an umbrella with one hand, and holding an accordion fan with his
                            other. From each of his back pockets conspicuously protruded a whiskey bottle. The painting
                            conveyed Catlin's view that "civilization" corrupted the Indians.
                            This image was the last of twenty-five plates; assuredly Catlin wanted his audience to close
                            his book thinking that, while Indians were noble in their natural state, civilization
                            degraded them lamentably. George Catlin, Catlin's North American
                                Indian Portfolio, Hunting Scenes and Amusements of the Rocky Mountains and Prairies of
                                America, From Drawings and Notes of the Author, Made During Eight Years' Travel
                                Amongst Forty-Eight of the Wildest and Most Remote Tribes of Savages in North
                            America. (
                                London
                            , 1844), plate no. 23; Dippie, Catlin and His Contemporaries,
                            86.
               
                    
                    
                        This young man, Wee-chush-ta-doo-ta (the Red Man), whose portrait I painted after he had
                            played in a desparate game at the Falls of St. Anthony, reputed the most determined and
                            successful player of the Sioux tribe, has, as I was informed by the chiefs, for several of
                            the last games he has been engaged in, taken the most solemn oath, whilst entering upon the
                            play, that he would not survive if his side were to be beaten; thus desperately resolving to
                            leave the ground, exulting in victory, or to leave his lifeless body upon it, a sacrifice by
                            his own hand and his own knife: and I have not a doubt of the certain execution of his stern
                            resolve in such an event.
                     Lewis eventually realized that his images needed textual support and attempted to remedy
                    the problem by promising his subscribers a "free" eleventh installment that would
                    contain biographical and historical information to supplement Indian portraits, but it never
                        appeared.35
            
            Had Lewis been a Catlin or a Bodmer—had his work been vividly executed and inspiring and
                    had it been published in large numbers—could the Great Lakes Indians, particularly the
                    Chippewas, have rivaled the Plains Indians and the Sioux in popularity? The Chippewas are the most
                    prominently featured tribe in Lewis's Aboriginal Port Folio, with
                    twenty-three plates, followed by the Winnebagoes with twelve, the Miamis with eleven, and the
                    Potawatomis with nine. Very likely these natives were too assimilated to have been embraced as
                    "the American Indian," whether they had been painted by Lewis or Catlin. Thus,
                    both because of his own shortcomings and because of the assimilated condition of his subjects, Lewis
                    was unable to provide an appealing alternative to the Plains Indian.
            Like Lewis, George Winter (1810–1876) also painted Indians from the Old Northwest. Winter,
                    born in 
                        England
                    , migrated to 
                        New York
                     in 1830, where he attended art school.36 In 1835 he pushed westward
                    to 
                        Ohio
                    . When he heard of the impending removal of Potawatomi Indians from their
                        Wabash Valley reservations in Indiana, Winter was prompted by "the
                    enthusiasm of adventure and the love of the romantic" to journey to Indiana to paint the
                    Potawatomis. From 1837 through the early 1840s Winter observed native life on the Indiana frontier.
                    He painted and sketched various scenes of Miami and Potawatomi Indians and kept descriptive notes in
                    his field journal. In the 1860s and 1870s he reworked much of this earlier material, and by the time
                    of his death in 1876, Winter had produced just over 230 sketches and paintings of Indians.37 Some of his works, most notably his watercolors, although not masterly, were
                    nonetheless 
                  
                     35 For a portrait of Wee-chush-ta-doo-ta, "The Red
                            Man," see Catlin, Catlin's North American Indian
                            Portfolio, plate 21.
                  
                     36 George Winter enrolled as a student at the National Academy of
                            Design in 
                                New York
                             in the 1830s and followed George Catlin's career. Dippie, Catlin and His Contemporaries, 159. Thus, one might say that Winter was at least
                            in part inspired by Catlin's example.
                  
                     37 Cooke and Ramadhyani, Indians and a Changing
                            Frontier, 1-3, 15-17, 41-142.
               
                    
                    
                  GEORGE WINTER, GAME OF WINK
                  
                  Conner 
                        Prairie, Indianapolis
                     
                  
               
                    
                  GEORGE WINTER, SPOTTED FAWN
                  
                  Henry Rowe Schoolcraft, The American Indians (1851); image
                            courtesy of Conner 
                        Prairie, Indianapolis
                     
                  
               
                     attractive, colorful, and elegant. Indeed, the quality and
                    quantity of his work suggested that Winter might have been a prominent figure among frontier
                    artists. Unfortunately, Winter's reputation was greatly diminished by two factors.
            First, Winter's work was largely unnoticed during his own day. Outside a small, provincial
                    art market in northern Indiana Winter was not well known. He occasionally exhibited at
                            
                  Louisville, Cincinnati
               , and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , but his paintings did not draw many viewers, and he lacked Catlin's zeal as a
                        showman.38
            
            Second, Winter's paintings showed assimilated Indians, the Miami and Potawatomi Indians of
                    Indiana. During the 1830s and 1840s, the decades in which he painted them, these tribes had
                    undergone significant acculturation; in their clothing, their dwellings, their behavior, their
                    pastimes, and their personal names, Winter's Indians looked much like
                    Euro-Americans—specially like French Creoles. Many wore brightly colored clothing of
                    Euro-American manufacture, calico prints for example. Many lived in log cabins. While some had
                    native names like "Pel-we-me" and "Yo-ca-top-kone," others had
                    names like Francis and Jim Godfroy—names either meaningless or unremarkable to the
                    EumAmerican ear. These Miamis and Potawatomis played cards, fished on the gently flowing river, or
                    laundered clothes at its bank—hardly a Romantic way of life. Thus, Winter's
                    subjects lacked the allure of the "wild" Indians untainted by civilization. For
                    modern students the greatest value of the Winter paintings is that they document the process of
                    acculturation at work among the Miamis and Potawatomis in the 1830s and 1840s.39
                    But they were not the Indians craved by the nineteenth-century imagination.
            Two of Winter's works did enjoy considerable success. Spotted Fawn, or Chiefs
                        Daughter was based on a work entitled The Chiefs Daughter by John Gadsby
                    Chapman, a famous artist of the day. Winter replicated Spotted Fawn several times
                    and sold the copies. The work was also used as an illustration in Henry Rowe Schoolcraft's
                        The American Zndians (1851).40 It owed its popularity to
                    its sentimental and sex-ualized portrayal of a young woman. Winter's rendition of
                    Darley's The Indian Captive apparently sold well, and Winter produced
                    multiple copies of it.41 As with Spotted Fawn, this painting
                    reflected a marked departure from his usual style and subject matter. The Indian
                        Captive showed a fair damsel in distress, one breast bared, being 
                  
                     38 The 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier of January 7, 1852, bemoaned the 
                                Indianapolis
                             public's lack of interest in Winter's work and wrote that a
                            "negro dance… a pow-wow of drunken Indians, or a portrait of the girl
                            that ran away with the Fakir of Siva would have more attraction for the crowd."
                            Quoted in Cooke and Ramadhyani, Indians and a Changing Frontier, 15.
                  
                     39 R. David Edmunds, "George Winter: Mirror of
                            Acculturation," in Cooke and Ramadhyani, Indians and a Changing
                                Frontier, 23-39.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., 15.
                  
                            41
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     whisked across a river on horseback in the arms of an Indian
                    warrior as thick black smoke from an approaching prairie fire filled the air. The painting was full
                    of action and suspense, and the Indian matched the image that Americans enjoyed. Despite these two
                    modest (and uncharacteristic) successes, the Indian paintings of George Winter never much influenced
                    the Euro-American idea of the Indian.
            Although Winter had enjoyed at least a modest recognition in northern Indiana in the late nineteenth
                    century, by the turn of the century his name was forgotten. Like Miller's work,
                    Winter's paintings were "rediscovered" in the 1930s. Evelyn Ball, the
                    wife of Winter's grandson, was observing the demolition of a 
                        Lafayette
                     warehouse owned by the Ball family, when she noticed a workman on the second floor
                    knock a painted canvas from an ornate frame and into a waiting dump truck. Horrified, Ball
                    intervened and in the process chanced upon boxes and trunks full of Winter's
                    correspondence, notes, and renderings.42
            
            Since then his works have been exhibited often in Indiana, and in 1948 the Indiana Historical Society
                    published The Journals and Indian Paintings of George Winter,
                    1837–1839, which contained thirty-one plates, all but three of which were of Native
                    American subjects. In 1993 the society in cooperation with the 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     Historical Association published a copiously illustrated volume of his Indian
                    paintings. Thus, more than a century after the artist's death in 1876, Winter's
                    paintings have been made available in their entirety to a national audience. But this increased
                    visibility came too late to influence the popular perceptions of American Indians. Just as
                    Lewis's Chippewas failed to seize the popular imagination, so too did the Miamis and
                    Potawatomis of George Winter.43
            
            John Mix Stanley (1814–1872) was an artist who influenced the developing image of the
                    American Indian far less than his talents and productivity seemed to promise.44
                    Stanley was a native upstate 
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., preface.
                  
                     43 Whether Winter's Indian images will significantly
                            influence modern viewers remains to be seen. One might argue that the present day is likely
                            to afford a receptive audience for Winter's art. His Indians may be seen to
                            symbolize the blending of multiple cultures—indigenous, imperial, and national.
                            In the increasingly blended and borderless world of the present century, Winter's
                            Indians may represent the "ideal" paradigm for some social theorists.
                  
                     44 Stanley made a significant contribution to the "vanishing
                            race" paradigm. His The Last of Their Race, painted in 1857,
                            typifies the prevailing Romantic sentiments of the mid-nineteenth century. This painting
                            shows a group of Indians on the shore of the Pacific Ocean, ostensibly having been pushed to
                            this westward extreme by the advance of the frontier. A setting sun and buffalo skulls
                            scattered on the ground suggest the imminent fate of the Indian. The presence of infants as
                            well as young, middle-aged, and elderly men and women are in this painting suggests that the
                            fate of all Indians will be the same. Stanley, a rival of Catlin's for government
                            patronage, was also inspired by Catlin's example. Dippie, Catlin and
                                His Contemporaries, 267; Dippie, "Government Patronage: Catlin, Stanley,
                            and Eastman," 
                        
                                    Montana
                                , The Magazine of Western History, XLIV (Autumn 1994), 50-51.
               
                     New Yorker who developed his artistic talents by doing itinerant
                    portraiture throughout the Midwest during the late 1830s. Although he never admitted it in print,
                    Stanley was inspired by Catlin's example to devote his talents to making a pictorial record
                    of America's aborigines. Stanley was a laconic but disparaging rival who sought for himself
                    the public and government support to which Catlin also aspired.45
            
            Stanley traveled extensively in search of Indian subjects to populate his "Indian
                    gallery," hoping that his collection of Indian paintings would surpass Catlin's.
                    Stanley first traveled to Indian Territory in 1843 and 1844, where he painted Cherokees, Creeks, and
                    Choctaws at Fort Gibson. Stanley and his business partner and fellow artist, Sumner Dickerman,
                    exhibited a selection of their modest but growing collection of Indian paintings in 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 1846: they showed 83 "finished works" from the 124 portraits,
                    landscapes, and sketches they had created in the Indian territory. The 
                        Cincinnati
                     newspapers heralded the Stanley-Dickerman Indian gallery as "far superior to
                    Catlin's far famed portraits." Despite such praise, only a trickle of visitors
                    attended their show, and they were no more successful in 
                        Louisville
                    . Perhaps Catlin had drained the novelty from the Indian gallery enterprise.46 Or, perhaps Stanley's subject matter was too tame; the removed
                    southern tribes that he had painted looked civilized and assimilated in comparison with Plains
                    Indians.
            Stanley was able to augment his collection further when he was allowed to accompany Stephen Watts
                    Kearny on an expedition from Saint Louis to San Diego. From there Stanley journeyed north to 
                        Oregon
                     and had some perilous adventures among the Cayuse Indians of the Pacific Northwest.
                    This action-filled trip lasted from 1846 through 1848 and gave Stanley the material to diversify and
                    enhance his gallery. Now the gallery boasted 134 paintings representing fifty different tribes. Once
                    again, despite testimonials from reviewers, when Stanley exhibited his paintings in
                            
                  Troy, Albany
               , and 
                        New York
                     City he attracted little public notice. Undaunted, he decided to offer his gallery to
                    Congress. As Catlin had done before him (unsuccessfully), Stanley sought to sell the gallery to the
                    federal government by arguing that the nation was in some sense obligated to preserve his
                    ethnological and historical record of these vanishing peoples.47
            
            To promote this project, Stanley hung more than one hundred and fifty paintings in the Smithsonian
                    Institution in 1852. In spite 
                  
                     45 Brian Dippie has written extensively on the rivalry that Catlin
                            encountered in both Seth Eastman and John Mix Stanley. Dippie, Catlin and His
                                Contemporaries, 265-317; Dippie, "Government Patronage: Catlin, Stanley,
                            and Eastman," 40-53.
                  
                     46 Dippie, Catlin and His Contemporaries, 265-73; W.
                            Vernon Kinietz, John Mix Stanley and His Zndian Paintings (
                                Ann Arbor
                            , Mich., 1942), plates xviii and xxii-xxvii.
                  
                     47 Dippie, Catlin and His Contemporaries,
                        273-82.
               
                     of endorsements from experts, Congress declined to purchase the
                        collection.48
            
            While his gallery remained on display, Stanley accepted an offer to accompany a government-authorized
                    survey of a northerly route to the Pacific. During 1853, he and the surveying entourage steamed
                    upriver from Saint Louis to Saint Paul and then traveled overland just south of the Canadian border
                    across the Great Plains, the Rockies, and down to the Pacific. His work would illustrate the Reports of Explorations and Surveys, to Ascertain the most Practicable and Economical
                        Route for a Railroad from the Mississippi River to the Pacific Ocean,
                    a twelve-volume series that was published between 1853 and 1856.
            Stanley also participated in the trendy "moving panorama" market that flourished in
                    the 1850s. In the late-eighteenth century Europeans had invented the "cyclorama."
                    Its purpose was to envelop the viewer with a sense of participation in the scene that the artist was
                    attempting to represent. The viewer would stand on an elevated platform in the middle of an enormous
                    room, several hundred feet in circumference. High walls, reaching perhaps fifty feet, were painted
                    with images, and near the tops of the walls the sky blended with the natural light flooding through
                    a glass roof. By arraying props across the floor, the artist could add to the authentic feel of his
                    scene. From the cyclorama model Americans developed "moving panoramas," in which
                    an artist painted a lengthy canvas or even a continuous series of canvases that might stand a dozen
                    feet high and extend two miles in length. A canvas would be connected to two spindles (rolled on one
                    spindle and affixed to the other), and as the canvas was pulled from one spindle to the other
                    viewers would see a story unfold before their dazzled eyes. Moving panoramas were especially
                    effective for relating linear stories and of course for illustrating the way a journey would be seen
                    from the window of a train, the deck of a steamboat, or on horseback. Stanley created a ' Western Wilds" panorama that was on display from September
                    1854 to January 1855 in 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., and depicted various scenes from his journey across the western 
                        United States
                    , including 
                        Minnesota
                     Indians, the Great Plains, the Rockies, and the Pacific coast.49
            
            
               
                  48
                        Ibid., 283-86.
               
                        
                     49
                            Ibid., 290-95. John Stevens produced a "newsreel" of the
                            1862 Sioux uprising in 
                                Minnesota
                             that is one of the few extant panoramas. Two of four versions have been
                            preserved along with the appropriate machinery for exhibiting them, one in the Gilcrease
                            Museum in Tulsa, 
                                Oklahoma
                            , the other in the 
                                Minnesota
                             Historical Society. Stevens first displayed one of his panoramas in 1868; he
                            later created two more versions of his newsreel and was still exhibiting it as late as 1878.
                        "The Gilcrease panorama consists of thirty-six panels" and "opens
                            with a view of Minnehaha Falls followed by a picture of George 
                                Washington
                             welcoming 
                                Lafayette
                            . Next come more than twenty Sioux War pictures, and at the end" there
                            are drawings often newsworthy "events of the day." "The 
                                Minnesota
                             Historical Society panorama also has thirty-six panels, each six feet high by
                            seven feet wide, and extends almost
                    
            
            
            Despite Stanley's varied artistic productions, he was unable to make a living from his
                    Indian paintings. Dejected but undeterred, he arranged to offer his paintings to the British Museum,
                    hoping that the threat of foreign purchase would impel Congress to act expeditiously to purchase his
                    gallery. Stanley had no such luck; the Civil War had begun and its prosecution understandably
                    consumed the attention of Congress. Frustrated and financially strained, Stanley left 
                        Washington
                     for 
                        Detroit
                    . He left his Indian gallery on display at the Smithsonian and sought buyers in 
                        Michigan
                    . The University of 
                        Michigan
                     expressed an interest in purchasing the gallery and sent a representative to 
                        Washington
                     to assess the collection. However, on the afternoon of January 24, 1865, disaster
                    struck. Only minutes after the 
                        Michigan
                     representative had completed her review, a fire started under the roof of the
                    Smithsonian's main building. The room in which Stanley had left his entire gallery was
                    engulfed in flames.50 A Smithsonian workman succeeded in rescuing only 5 of the
                    154 paintings. This was a catastrophic loss for Stanley, because few of his paintings had been
                        reproduced.51
            
            The Smithsonian fire was a tragedy not only for Stanley and the museum, but for all people who
                    appreciate the art of the American West. In 1846 his Indian gallery had consisted principally of
                    southeastern Indians, Sac and Foxes, and Indians of the southern Plains. At this point he had
                    painted no tribes of the northern Plains—specifically, no Sioux.52 Of
                    course, his gallery had grown in later years and included Indians of the Southwest and Pacific
                    Northwest, and probably of the northern Plains. However, even if Stanley's gallery had
                    survived to offer a visual alternative to the Plains Indian, it is unlikely that it would have
                    altered America's popular perception of the Indian, since too many artists favored the
                    Plains tribes. Some of Stanley's paintings are extant and have had little effect on the
                    image of the Indian. His portraits of the Cherokees from Indian Territory have survived, but 
                  220 feet. Each panorama consists of thirty-six panels, principally scences from the
                            uprising, but also including some political illustrations, depictions of events of the day,
                            and scenes from the far West." John Francis McDermott, The Lost
                                Panoramas of the 
                                    Mississippi
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1958), 173.
                  
                     50 In this room also hung the Indian portraits of Charles Bird King.
                            Fortunately, his paintings had been copied and reproduced in color in McKenney and
                            Hall's Indian history and are readily obtainable to prospective viewers today.
                            Dippie, Catlin and His Contemporaries, 314.
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., 309-17.
                  
                            
                        52 Stanley's 1846 catalog lists 100 paintings and 34
                                "sketches" from his gallery. There were no Sioux Indians, nor were
                                there any stereotypical Plains Indians in his gallery.
                            Of his 100 paintings, 94 were of Indian subjects: 29 from southeastern tribes, 16 of Sac
                                and Fox Indians, 26 from southern Plains tribes, 1 
                                    Iowa
                                , 3 Pawnee Picts. His "sketches" included Pacific Coast
                                Indians, 18; Pacific landscapes, 12; Euro-Amencans, 2; abductiodmassacre scenes, 2. John
                                Mix Stanley, Catalogue of Pictures, in Stanley &
                                    Dickerman's North American Indian Portrait Gallery; J. M. Stanley,
                                Artist ([
                           Cincinnati, Ohio
                        ], 1846).
                        
               
                    
                    
                  JOHN MIX STANLEY, FORT UNION, AND DISTRIBUTION OF GOODS TO THE
                                ASSINNIBOINES
                  
                  U.S. War Department, Reports of Explorations and Surueys
                                … for a Railroad from the 
                                    Mississippi
                                 Riuer to the Pacific Ocean: Volume 12 (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1860), part one.
                these Indians dressed and looked like Euro-Americans.53 Thus, they did
                    not reflect the American idea of the Indian, then or now.54
            
            Stanley sometimes brought with him a daguerreotype apparatus on his journeys west, and many of his
                    paintings bear the characteristics of scenes composed for that early form of photography. His scenes
                    are static; they lack action and emotion.55 This is particularly true of his
                    illustrations for the Pacific railroad survey. These illustrations, never reproduced in large
                    quantities, are especially devoid of emotion. Many of his drawings were done to showcase landscapes,
                    but even the ones that focused on natives are rather inert. These illustrations have color, but they
                    are shaded rather than colored. Most images fade from green to blue or from red to orange to brown.
                    They have a beauty of their own, but they hardly pulse with action and excitement. Stanley never
                    drew for the survey reports the portraits of the principal chiefs that he had planned, but it seems
                    likely that they would not have had a significant impact on the public.56
            
            
               
                  53 See note 44 for an explanation of Stanley's most famous
                        contribution.
               
                  54 Kinietz, John Mix Stanley and His Indian Paintings,
                        plates xxii-xxvii.
               
                  55 Dippie, Catlin and His Contemporaries, 269, 296.
               
                  56 Stanley intended to include the portraits of four Gros Ventre chiefs,
                        three Blackfeet, two Crows, two Assiniboines, a Cree, a Wallawalla, a Spokane Indian, a Bannock,
                        and a Pend d'Oreille Indian. Ibid., 296.
            
            
            Stanley's influence was further diminished because he was neither an effective showman nor
                    aggressive in publishing his works. With the exception of the effort he put into his
                    "Western Wilds" panorama, Stanley never really played the showman. Although he
                    sought to publicize his events, his quiet and unassuming personality prevented him from attracting
                    larger audiences. In this sense he was markedly different from Catlin. Furthermore, although
                    Stanley's gallery was quite attractive, he never attempted to publish reproductions of it.
                    His audience was limited chiefly to those who saw his paintings while they were on display at the
                    Smithsonian. Moreover, Stanley, unlike Catlin, never wrote an account of his adventures. Someone
                    with Stanley's experiences might have produced a popularly-accessible illustrated narrative
                    of his travels among the Indians, but Stanley never did. Perhaps his ineptitude with the written
                    word was to blame.57 Unfortunately, although much of Stanley's Indian
                    art would have appealed to American tastes, most of it vanished in the Smithsonian fire and was thus
                    denied to posterity.
            Wimar was an exceptionally talented artist who painted Indians and Indian scenes of the American
                    West. However, he died young and never realized his enormous potential. Though the outbreak of the
                    Civil War disrupted life in Saint Louis, after unionist elements had secured the city against rebel
                    agitation business boomed for Wimar. His artistic talents won him much acclaim, and in order to
                    secure a comfortable living he took on more commissions than he could complete. He contracted
                    tuberculosis and could not continue his work. Wimar died in 1862 at age thirty-four.58
            
            In 1858 and on several later occasions, Wimar had journeyed up the Missouri
                    River by steamboat. From these adventures he produced some striking Plains depictions,
                    such as Indians Approaching Fort Union, Buffalos Crossing the Yellowstone, Buffalo
                    Hunt, and Buffalo Dance. During these excursions he met hundreds of Indians,
                    many of them Sioux but some from other tribes, such as the Arikaras and the Mandans. It is apparent
                    that Wimar developed an amicable relationship with natives of the Upper 
                        Missouri
                    , since they reportedly grieved at news of his death. His studio was full of native
                    implements that he had procured while on the river. It was described by one biographer as
                    "a perfect museum of Indian curiosities, and at the time of his death he possessed what was
                    then probably the best collection of Indian weapons, implements and costumes in the
                        country."59 It is interesting to wonder what Wimar might have
                    accomplished if he had been productive for more than ten years. As it was, 
                  
                     57
                            Ibid., 265-317.
                  
                     58 Hodges, Carl Wimer, 23; Mme. Tod helmuth, ed.,
                                Arts in 
                                    St. Louis
                                
                      (Saint Louis, Mo., 1864), 47-58.
                  
                     59 Hodges, Carl Wimar, 47-58.
               
                     Wimar's abbreviated career served to further enhance in
                    the Euro-American mind the image of the Romantic Plains Indian.
            One of the most important developments in the dominant perception of the American Indian was the
                    nineteenth-century popularization of the Plains Indian, for which the adventurer-artists were
                    largely responsible. Had Catlin, Bodmer, and their disciples been less skilled and prolific the
                    Plains Indian might not have established such an ascendency in the American imagination. However,
                    one must not overstate the importance of adventurer-artists. It may be argued that although Catlin,
                    Bodmer, Miller, and Wimar helped to make the Plains Indian famous, it was even more the case that
                    the Plains Indian made these artists famous. A public audience that recognized the mid-nineteenth
                    century Plains Indian as the ideal Indian showered acclaim on the artists who painted them. Others
                    such as Winter, Lewis, and even Stanley in his younger days, who painted more assimilated Indians,
                    were not widely embraced by either contemporaries or posterity.
            To be sure, other influences contributed later to the dominance of the Plains Indian image during the
                    nineteenth and twentieth centuries, including Custer's famed "last stand"
                    at the Little Bighorn against the Sioux and the Cheyenne, the national and international celebrity
                    of Buffalo Bill's Wild West show, the infamous Wounded Knee massacre, and the distinctive
                    characteristics of the Plains tribes. But even before the Civil War, America had chosen the Plains
                    Indian as the representative embodiment for all American Indians, and adventurer-artists had
                    strongly influenced that choice.
         
         
         
            Introducing Black Harry Hoosier: The History Behind Indiana's Namesake
            Stephen H. Webb*
            
            Indiana's nickname is as distinctive as its source is mysterious. Early in the nineteenth
                    century, Hoosier was a common synonym in the South for a yokel or bumpkin, but there is no record of
                    how the term came to be used as slang or what it originally meant. The earliest Indiana settlers
                    brought this word with them from the Appalachian region, but they left behind no trace of its
                    etymology. By the middle of the nineteenth century, Indiana citizens had transformed this label of
                    abuse and disparagement into a badge of pride and identity. Indiana folk were proud to be Hoosiers,
                    but what did that mean?
            While nicknames like Buckeye, Badger, and Wolverine need no explanation, the derivation of Hoosier
                    has become a source of amusement and speculation. Kentuckians were the first to joke that the term
                    came from the practice of isolated Indiana farmers yelling "Who's yere"
                    to approaching strangers. There was also a yarn about a bar fight after which somebody wondered
                    "whose ear" was left lying on the floor. Hoosiers themselves, trying to put a more
                    respectable spin on their name, sometimes told about a man with that surname who hired people from
                    Indiana to work outside the state. Indianans were thus associated with a certain Mr. Hoosier.
                    Although it might be pleasing to imagine that the nickname comes from an original Hoosier who
                    treated his workers so well that they became identified with him, there is no evidence to support
                    the existence of this mythological figure.
            Fortunately, it is unnecessary to invent a first Hoosier because one already exists, and he was a
                    noted figure in his own right. Historians of early American religion have long acknowledged the
                    importance of Harry Hoosier, a Methodist preacher famous for his eloquence.1
                    Those who heard Hoosier preach found him hard to forget. Dr. Benjamin Rush (1745–1813), a
                    signer of the Declaration of Independence, acknowledged that "making allowances for his
                    illiteracy he was the greatest orator in America."2 Outside a narrow
                    circle of scholars, how- 
                  
                     * Stephen H. Webb is associate professor of religion and
                            philosophy, 
                                Wabash
                             College, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 See, for example, Nathan O. Hatch, The Democratization
                                of American Christianity (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1989), 106, 134.
                  
                     2 Abel Stevens, History of the Methodist Episcopal Church
                                in the 
                                    United States
                                 of America (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1864), I, 174.
               
                    
                    
                  SECTION SHOWING HARRY HOOSIER FROM A. GILCHRIST CAMPBELL'S ENGRAVING
                            OF PAINTING BY THOMAS COKE RUCKLE, THE ORDINATION OF BISHOP ASBURY. THE
                            WHOLE PAINTING IS REPRODUCED ON P. 32.
                  Courtesy of Drew University Methodist Collection, 
                        Madison, New
                            Jersey
                     
                  
               
                    
                    
                  
                     THE ORDINATION OF BISHOP ASBURY ENGRAVED BY A. GILCHRIST
                            CAMPBELL FROM A PAINTING BY THOMAS COKE RUCKLE. HARRY HOOSIER IS IN THE LEFT CORNER OF THE
                            PICTURE.
                  Courtesy of Drew University Methodist Collection, 
                        Madison, New
                            Jersey
                     
                  
               
                     ever, he is virtually unknown today. In a 1995 article in the
                        Indiana Magazine of History, William D. Piersen made a persuasive case linking
                    the Methodist pioneer known as Black Harry with the Indiana nickname, but too many Hoosiers are
                    still unaware of Piersen's argument.3 People from Indiana take pride in
                    having the most distinctive state nickname, but they can be yet prouder of the person whose name it
                    was.
            Although there is no full biography of Harry Hoosier, there is plenty of evidence from Methodist
                    documents to piece together a sketch of his remarkable career.4 It was made
                    possible by events in 
                        England
                    , where a revolution in spirituality opened new possibilities for the poor. John Wesley
                    (1703–1791) sought to reform the Anglican Church through revival, and as a result he
                    founded what came to be called Methodism. Wesley took the Christian message to those who were on the
                    margins of established religion by delivering passionate sermons that emphasized a personal, rather
                    than institutional, expression of faith. Since Wesley worked outside the regular channels of
                    Anglican authority, he recruited lay persons to assist him with evangelism. Wesley required these
                    exhorters, as they were sometimes known, to travel widely in order to preach to the unchurched. Thus
                    was born the Methodist system of itinerant ministry.5
            
            In America, this system was even more important than it was in 
                        England
                    . Vast tracts of land were settled sparsely, and ordained and educated clergy were in
                    short supply. The Methodists took religion to the people by organizing revival meetings where
                    passion was more important than doctrine. Weeping, shouting, and groaning were common at these
                    services, although the emphasis was on deliverance from sin and the joyful experience of salvation
                    that was available to everyone. The converted were encouraged to demonstrate their experience of
                    God's grace by growing in holiness and Christian perfection. They were supported by
                    Methodist societies that, at first, were meant to supplement, not replace, traditional churches.
            Those who heard the call to preach at these revivals had to be prepared for a hard life on the road,
                    without the comforts of a family or a permanent home. Many of these exhorters had as little access
                    to formal schooling or organized religion as those who came to hear 
                  
                     3 William D. Piersen, "The Origin of the Word
                            ‘Hoosier’: A New Interpretation," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, XCI (June 1995), 189-96. Instead of repeating
                            Piersen's argument, this article will complement his essay with a portrait of Harry
                            Hoosier and a reflection on why Indianans should be proud of the original Hoosier.
                  
                     4
                            
                                Warren
                             Thomas Smith, Harry Hosier, Circuit Rider (
                                Nashville
                            , Tenn., 1981); Harry V. Richardson, Dark Salvation: The Story of
                                Methodism as it Developed among Blacks in America (
                                Garden City
                            , N.Y., 1976); and William B. McClain, Black People in the
                                Methodist Church: Whither Thou Goest (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1984).
                  
                     5 See E. Dale Dunlap, "The United Methodist System of
                            Itinerant Ministry," in Rethinking Methodist History: A Bicentennial
                                Historical Consultation, ed. Russell E. Richey and Kenneth E. Rowe (
                                Nashville
                            , Tenn., 1985).
               
                     them speak. Their shared experience enabled them to reach out to
                    those who, because of their physical or social isolation, had been neglected by other churches.
                    These people included African Americans, both freedmen and slaves. Blacks were attracted to the
                    informal and spontaneous nature of the Methodist revival meetings, where they were permitted to
                    participate alongside whites. They were also inspired by the strong stand the Methodist leadership,
                    following the guidance of Wesley himself, took against slavery.6 The Methodist
                    message of personal holiness cut across racial, social, and economic lines, and a few of the most
                    gifted blacks who joined the movement were encouraged to become preachers.7
            
            Harry Hoosier was one of the first and possibly the best of this group. He was illiterate, so the
                    spelling of his name varies in the sources (Hosier, Hoosier, Hoshur, and Homier). All of the
                    spellings of his name by his contemporaries, however, produce the same phonetic effect, and the way
                    he pronounced his name is similar to the way Hoosier is pronounced today. Nevertheless, the evidence
                    for the connection between his name and Indiana's nickname is circumstantial, which leaves
                    room for skepticism. Compared to the alternative explanations, however, this theory not only makes a
                    better story but also has an explanatory power that the others lack. Surely it is more than
                    coincidence that the evolution of this term followed the same path that the early Indiana settlers
                    took from the Appalachian frontier. It also makes sense that these pioneers would have been eager to
                    forget its origin, consciously or unconsciously. Moreover, many nicknames began as slurs on
                    religious activities or expressions of racial prejudice, and this theory fits that pattern.
            Hoosier's birthdate is usually given as 1750, but there is no documentation about either his
                    parents or his early years. Some have speculated that he was a slave of Harry Dorsey Gough
                    (17?-1808), who owned a plantation near 
                        Baltimore
                    . Gough converted to Methodism and built a chapel on his property where circuit riders
                    would preach twice a month. Though no one knows where or how Harry Hoosier obtained his last name,
                    at some point after he was manumitted his speaking skills came to the attention of the Methodist
                        leadership.8
            
            
               
                  6 However, Methodists did not preach the full equality of the races.
                        Although early Methodist statements about slavery denounced it as evil, some leaders were
                        willing to compromise with this institution, and the church gradually adopted the position that
                        it should not contravene the laws of civil authority.
               
                  7"Stressing the conversion experience instead of the process of
                        religious instruction made Christianity more accessible to illiterate slaves and slaveholders
                        alike." Albert J. Raboteau, Slave Religion: The "Invisible
                            Institution" in the Antebellum South (
                            New York
                        , 1978), 132. Moreover, The tendency of evangelical religion to level the souls of
                        all men before God became manifest when awakened blacks preached to unconverted
                        whites." Ibid., 133-34.
               
                  8
                        
                            Warren
                         Thomas Smith, "Harry Hosier: Black Preacher Extraordinary," Journal of the Interdenominational Theological Center, VII (Spring 1980),
                    113.
            
            
            Francis Asbury (1745–1816), the patriarch of American Methodism, answered
                    Wesley's call for workers to spread the movement in America in 1771 and traveled from 
                        England
                     to 
                        Philadelphia
                    . He was a diligent evangelist whose wide travels served as a model for the subsequent
                    circuit riders who took Methodism to the frontier. During the American Revolution Asbury was forced
                    to go into hiding, because Wesley's opposition to the war made him vulnerable to charges of
                    sympathizing with the Tones. Afterwards Asbury emerged, along with Thomas Coke, as the leader of the
                    Methodist movement. At his side was the first African American to obtain national prestige as a
                    religious figure, Harry Hoosier.
            Asbury first mentions Hoosier in his journal in an entry dated June 28, 1780, though it has been
                    suggested that they met as early as 1775. At first, Hoosier accompanied Asbury as a traveling
                    companion and servant; but Hoosier soon proved himself a worthy colleague. Asbury preached to white
                    people while Hoosier preached to slaves. Hoosier would substitute for Asbury when he was sick, and
                    in some cases, Hoosier was asked to preach immediately after Asbury finished his sermon. At Falls
                    Church, 
                        Virginia
                    , Asbury wrote, ‘Reached at the Chapel; afterwards Harry, a black man, spoke
                    on the barren fig-tree. The circumstance was new, and the white people looked on with
                        attention."9 This was the first opportunity for this audience to
                    hear a public speech by a black man.
            By all accounts, his white audiences liked what they saw and heard. Asbury admits in his journal that
                    the best way to draw a large congregation was to announce that Hoosier would preach. While the
                    content of his sermons probably differed little from those of his fellow exhorters, his style was
                    significantly different. A contemporary description of Hoosier provides clues for understanding his
                    success: 
                        He was of middling stature; slim, but very strongly built, and very black; capable of great
                            labour and much endurance. He also possessed a most musical voice, which he could modulate
                            with the skill of a master, and use with the most complete success in the pathetic,
                            terrible, or persuasive parts of a discourse… He was never at a loss in
                            preaching, but was very acceptable wherever he went, and few of the white preachers could
                            equal him, in his way.10
                  
                     The two drawings of Hoosier that survive confirm this portrait of a persuasive yet humble
                    man. One drawing shows Hoosier seated with one hand resting on the Bible and the other hand reaching
                    out to a white man who is listening intently to his words. The other drawing shows a kind,
                    unassuming face with large, sympathetic eyes.11
            
            
               
                  9 Francis Asbury, Journals and Letters, eds. Elmer T.
                        Clark, J. Manning Potts, and Jacob S. Payton (3 vols., 
                            London
                        , 1958), I, 403.
               
                  10 G. A. Raybold, Reminiscences of Methodism in West
                        Jersey (
                            New York
                        , 1849), 166-67.
               
                  11 Reproductions of these drawings can be found in the Piersen article
                        cited in footnote 3.
            
            
            Like most preachers of his era, Hoosier appealed directly to the heart in an attempt to convince his
                    listeners of their sins and persuade them that they needed to repent. He was especially famous for
                    his ability to bring his audience to a climactic pitch of emotional tension. It is tempting to
                    attribute his style to his African heritage. Traditional African religions encouraged a wide range
                    of intense emotional expressions. Some recent scholars, however, suggest that this style of
                    preaching was derived from and typical of English and Scottish evangelicals.12
                    There is probably truth in both views. Hoosier would have modeled his sermons on the preachers who
                    converted him, but he also made significant contributions to the evangelical style of worship. His
                    years of enslavement must have enabled him to address the hopes and fears of his black audiences
                    with particular poignancy.
            Many preachers, both black and white, lacked formal education in those days, so Hoosier's
                    illiteracy probably did not hinder his success. According to one observer, "Harry could
                    remember passages of scripture and quote them accurately; and hymns, also, which he had heard read,
                    he could repeat or sing." When a Methodist bishop tried to teach him to read, Hoosier lost
                    the gift of preaching; so he gave up trying to learn to read. As he explained his talent,
                    "I sing by faith, pray by faith, preach by faith, and do every thing by faith."
                    Hoosier relied on his memory and imagination to produce flowery figures of speech and delivered them
                    with an impressive voice and bold gestures.13 He dramatized biblical stories in
                    order to impress upon his listeners the urgency of God's offer of salvation.
            Asbury worried about whether Hoosier could handle his fame, and it is difficult to judge whether his
                    worries were a product of racial prejudice. In the fall of 1781, when Asbury was planning a return
                    trip to 
                        Virginia
                    , he wrote in his journal, "Harry seems to be unwilling to go with me: I fear
                    his speaking so much to white people in the city has been, or will be, injurious; he has been
                    flattered, and may be ruined."14 Was Asbury jealous of
                    Hoosier's success? Was he resentful that Hoosier wanted more control over his own ministry?
                    Whatever the case may have been, Hoosier seems to have had a talent for preaching to white
                    audiences. And one is tempted to speculate that, like black preachers of the nineteenth century, he
                    spoke about freedom and justice, doing so in covert ways to avoid provoking antagonism.
            One example of Hoosier's experience of racism on the road, where he had to find lodging
                    where he could, shows his resourceful- 
                  
                     12 Jon 
                                Butler
                            , Awash in a Sea of Faith: Christianizing the American People (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1990), 249. 
                                Butler
                             expressly mentions Harry Hoosier as an example of a black preacher whose
                            emotional style was derived from European examples rather than African influences.
                  
                     13 Raybold, Reminiscences, 166-67; Richardson, Dark Salvation, 181.
                  
                     14 Asbury, Journals and Letters, I, 413 (October 27,
                            1781).
               
                     ness in dealing with prejudice. He once stayed in a house where
                    his hostess declared that "she would not hear the black." Hoosier heard the remark
                    and retired to the garden for prayer. At the service later that day, he spoke "in the most
                    humble manner" of how all people suffer from sin like a disease and how God has sent a
                    physician to heal sinners. He then lamented the possibility that some might reject the physician God
                    had sent to them that day because his hands were black. The prayer at the end of his sermon was
                    described as "awful, powerful, and overwhelming." The woman was made aware of her
                    prejudices, as were many others gathered that day.15
            
            When Thomas Coke (1747–1814) arrived in America in 1784 as Wesley's
                    representative, Asbury loaned him a horse and assigned Hoosier to assist him. Coke was charmed:
                    "I have now had the pleasure of hearing Harry preach several times. I sometimes give notice
                    immediately after preaching, that in a little time Harry will preach to the blacks; but the whites
                    always stay to hear him. Sometimes I publish him to preach at candle-light, as the Negroes can
                    better attend at that time. I really believe he is one of the best Preachers in the world, there is
                    such an amazing power attends his preaching, though he cannot read; and he is one of the humblest
                    creatures I ever saw."16
            
            In 1786, Hoosier accompanied Asbury to 
                        New York
                    . In the first reference to Methodist preaching in any 
                        New York
                     publication, the Packet described Hoosier's reception:
                        
                        Lately came to this city a very singular black man, who, it is said, is quite ignorant of
                            letters, yet he has preached in the Methodist church several times to the acceptance of
                            several well-disposed, judicious people. He delivers his discourses with great zeal and
                            pathos, and his language and connection is by no means contemptible. It is the wish of
                            several of our correspondents that this same black man may be so far successful as to rouse
                            the dormant zeal of numbers of our slothful white people, who seem very little affected
                            about concerns of another world.17
                  
                    
            
            On one occasion in 
                        Delaware
                     a large crowd came to hear Asbury preach, and the chapel was so full that many could
                    not get inside. Those standing outside thought they were listening to Asbury and said that, if all
                    Methodist preachers were that good, they would have no reservations in joining the movement. When
                    someone told them that the speaker was not the bishop but his servant, they wondered how good the
                    bishop must be if even his servant was so talented.18
            
            Beginning in 1789, Hoosier traveled with Freeborn Garrettson (1752–1827), a Methodist
                    preacher who upon conversion freed his 
                  
                     15 Raybold, Reminiscences, 167.
                  
                     16 Thomas Coke, Extracts of the Journals of the Rev. Dr.
                                Coke's Five Visits to America (
                                London
                            , 1793), 18.
                  
                     17 Quoted in Samuel A. Seaman, Annals of 
                                    New York
                                 Methodism: Being a History of the Methodist Episcopal Church in the City of 
                                    New York
                                 from A.D. 1766 to A.D. 1890 (
                                New York
                            , 1892), 92-93.
                  
                     18 Stevens, History of the Methodist Episcopal
                            Church, II, 175.
               
                     slaves and became an ardent emancipationist. Garrettson was
                    often criticized for preaching against slavery, and his outspoken views must have put Hoosier in a
                    dangerous position. Their views on grace and free will were even more threatening to many in their
                    audiences. Garrettson and Hoosier were often verbally abused and sometimes physically attacked
                    because they denied the Calvinist doctrines of unconditional election and the perseverance of the
                    saints, which were dominant among Protestants at the time. One of Hoosier's favorite
                    biblical texts was the story of the barren fig tree, which Jesus cursed when he found it had nothing
                    but leaves. Hoosier used this story to illustrate the idea that salvation should lead to good works.
                    If Christians did not show the fruit of their faith by striving to be holy, then they could fall
                    from grace and thus risk being cursed by God.
            Though Garrettson mentioned that some members of their audiences were rude, for the most part Hoosier
                    was well received. In his journal, Garrettson noted how the people "are amazingly fond of
                    hearing Harry." Garrettson often left Hoosier in charge of the preaching while he attended
                    to other matters. "July 29th, I rode to Hudson, where I found the people very curious to
                    hear Harry. I therefore declined preaching that their curiosity might be satisfied. The different
                    denominations heard him with much admiration, and the Quakers thought that as he was unlearned he
                    must preach by immediate inspiration."19 In 
                        Providence
                    , Garrettson reports, Hoosier preached to more than one thousand people.
            Hoosier was on intimate terms with members of the Methodist leadership, but in many ways he remained
                    on the periphery of the church because of his race. He was, thus, both an insider and an outsider.
                    During his lifetime, he saw Methodism undergo a significant transformation. In order to accommodate
                    the growing number of people attracted by its charismatic preachers, the revivalistic movement had
                    to develop institutional and hierarchical structures. Hoosier attended the 1784 meeting in 
                        Baltimore
                     known as the "Christmas Conference," where the Methodists, led by
                    Asbury and others, officially separated from the Episcopal Church. Because Harry was black, however,
                    he was not given a public role in that meeting.20
            
            Inevitably, perhaps, the Methodists lost some of their prophetic edge regarding race and class as
                    they matured into one of the dominant institutions in nineteenth-century America. As they became
                    better established, Methodists attracted members from the higher social and economic classes.
                    Consequently, Methodism increasingly 
                  
                     19 Nathan Bangs, The Life of the Rev. Freeborn Garrettson
                                Compiled from his Printed and Manuscript Journals, and other Authentic Documents (
                                New York
                            , 1839), 188, 195.
                  
                     20 The painting of the event by Thomas Coke Ruckle shows Hoosier
                            peering out from behind the pulpit to observe the ordination of Bishop Asbury (see p. 32).
                            While Richard Allen was also present at the ordination, Hoosier is the only person of color
                            depicted in the painting.
               
                     reflected the customs and attitudes of the society at large. A
                    good example of this change can be seen in the shift from holding open-air meetings to constructing
                    church buildings. At an outdoor revival, people of different races could mix freely, but seating
                    arrangements in church pews were more problematic. Those who supported slavery resented sitting next
                    to blacks and worshiping with them on equal terms. The blacks who formerly had been welcomed into
                    the Methodist movement had to decide whether to stay or to form their own churches.
            This dilemma is illustrated in the life of Richard Allen (1760–1831), whose career marks a
                    significant departure from Hoosier's. The two men certainly knew one another, since they
                    were the only blacks present at the Christmas conference, but there is no record of their meeting or
                    having been friends. Like Hoosier, Allen was born a slave. After he became a Methodist in the early
                    1770s, his master was so impressed with his piety that he was allowed to buy his freedom. Asbury
                    asked Allen to accompany him on preaching trips to the South, but since Asbury did not want him
                    mixing with slaves he suggested that Allen sleep in the carriage rather than in local homes. Allen
                    balked at this proposal. He decided instead to preach in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , which had a growing population of freedmen. While Allen was recruiting African
                    Americans into the Methodist movement, white Methodists often discriminated against him, and the
                    breaking point came during a service at the Methodist church where he was a member. After an usher
                    tried to force him to sit in the balcony, Allen withdrew and founded his own church. Outspoken and
                    driven, he was an active abolitionist and a tireless worker for social justice. The churches he
                    influenced eventually became the African Methodist Episcopal Church.21
            
            Unlike Allen, Hoosier chose to accept his subordinate role in a Methodist church that was dominated
                    by a white leadership. Hoosier seemed resigned that his popularity did not lead to more recognition
                    or respect. At least publicly he was able to accept the tensions of being both a servant and a
                    preacher, but privately he must have suffered many humiliations. Even the admiration he so often
                    received was frequently mixed with condescension. While Henry Boehm (1775–1875), an
                    itinerant minister, was amazed by Hoosier's abilities—"His voice was
                    musical, and his tongue as the pen of a ready writer"—Boehm also noted that many
                    people doubted that Africa could have produced such a talented man. "Some inquired whether
                    he was really black, or whether Anglo-Saxon blood was not mixed in his veins."22
            
            When Methodism became an established church, unlicensed itinerant ministers were permitted to seek
                    official ordination. This 
                  
                     21 Emory Stevens Bucke et al., eds., The History of American Methodism (3 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1964), I, 602-603.
                  
                     22 Henry Boehm, Reminiscences, Historical and
                                Biographical, Of Sixty-Four Years in the Ministry, ed. Joseph B. Wakeley (
                                New York
                            , 1865), 90-91.
               
                     allowed a more significant rupture between white and black
                    preachers. There is a record of a petition for Hoosier's ordination to the Methodist
                    bishops' meeting at the 
                        Philadelphia
                     Conference of 1805, signed by nineteen preachers, but there is no evidence that he ever
                    achieved this recognition.23 Given his popularity, it seems reasonable to assume
                    that Hoosier's race deterred his superiors from permitting his ordination. As his career
                    came to a close, Hoosier was required to preach the gospel on an increasingly unequal basis with
                    white ministers.
            As a black man traveling on the road and preaching a message of equality before Gad, Hoosier was
                    subjected to many trials. As early as 1791 he was acquitted in a scandal that involved a certain
                    Sally Lyon, but there is no record of what the charges were.24 Near the end of
                    his life, his situation finally began to take its toll. Hoosier became addicted to wine, which some
                    attributed to "the temptations of extravagant popularity."25
                    Some cited Hoosier as an example of what happened when a black man became too famous or powerful.
                    Ironically, his duties as a minister gave him the opportunity and the duty to consume wine
                    regularly. Later in the nineteenth century temperance groups persuaded the Methodists and other
                    denominations to substitute grape juice for wine in the communion precisely because they were
                    worried about preachers and lay members alike becoming alcoholics.
            Whatever the cause of his decline, Hoosier had the strength of character to break this habit. He soon
                    resumed preaching in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , where he was always in high demand. The African Wonder, as he was sometimes called,
                    died in 1806 and "was borne to the grave by a great procession of both white and black
                    admirers, who buried him as a hero, once overcome, but finally victorious."25 He left no descendants.
            Working the itinerant trail from New 
                        England
                     to the Carolinas, Hoosier played an important role in Methodism's appeal to
                    the unchurched. Much of the movement's early growth came from blacks. 
                  
                            
                        23 Being licensed as an exhorter or local preacher was the first rank
                                in the Methodist ordination process. The next two levels were ordination as a deacon and
                                then as an elder. Blacks were given recognition as local preachers in the last two
                                decades of the 18th century, but they were not eligible to be ordained as deacons until
                                after 1800. See Dee E. Andrews, The Methodists and Revolutionary America,
                                    1760–1800 (
                                    Princeton
                                , N.J., 2000), 139-40.
                            The original petition is in the archives of St. George's United Methodist
                                Church, 
                                    Philadelphia
                                . Hoosier was probably licensed as a local preacher by St. George's
                                Church in the 1780s. The petition for his ordination was for the Deacons'
                                orders. See Grant S. Shockley et al., eds., Heritage and
                                    Hope: The African-American Presence in United Methodism (
                                    Nashville
                                , Tenn., 1991), 52. Richard Allen was the first black deacon in the
                                Methodist church, having been ordained by Asbury in 1799.
                        
                  
                     24 Report on Harry Hoosier, Morrell Collection (Garrett-Evangelical
                            Theological Seminary, United Library, 
                        Evanston, Illinois
                     ).
                  
                     25 Stevens, History of the Methodist Episcopal
                            Church, I, 175.
                  
                            26
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     Indeed, from 1790 to 1810, one fifth of Methodist membership was
                    comprised of African Americans. Hoosier preached to both whites and blacks, and many whites found
                    this integration of the races to be profoundly disturbing. It is probably no coincidence that the
                    derogatory use of the term Hoosier begins to appear at the time of Hoosier's ministry. His
                    congregations were rural and unsophisticated, and they mixed the races, two characteristics that
                    would have prompted hostility and ridicule.
            On the Appalachian frontier the term Hoosier became slang for people who were uneducated, so
                    uneducated that they would follow a black minister. Later, as the term migrated west from 
                        Virginia
                     and the Carolinas to 
                        Tennessee
                    , and then North to Indiana, it came to mean simply someone who was uncouth or ignorant.
                    As Piersen suggests, the greater number of Methodists in Indiana than in southern states helps to
                    explain how the term finally found its home. In the end, the racial connotations were gradually
                    stripped away and lost to history.27
            
            The story of Black Harry Hoosier is worth telling for its own sake, but it also should be an
                    essential part of Indiana lore. More than most ministers of his age, Harry Hoosier was able to
                    transcend racial barriers when he preached. Those who resented his influence used his name to
                    express scorn and derision, but the people of Indiana shook off negative connotations and wore
                    "Hoosier" with pride. Without even knowing it, Indiana has preserved Harry
                    Hoosier's name; it is one that does them honor.
            
               
                  27 Hoosier's name has not been forgotten in Methodist circles.
                        For example, Zoar United Methodist in 
                            Philadelphia
                        , the oldest continuing black congregation of the United Methodist Church, credits
                        Hoosier as its patron and founder, even though there is no written record of his presence at its
                        opening in 1796.
            
         
         
         
            What's in a Name? The Confusing Story of the Origins of One Indiana County's
                    Name
            Gregory P. Hinshaw*
            
            When the Indiana General Assembly organized 
                        Randolph County
                     in 1818, the legislators offered no reason for choosing the name for the new county.
                    This omission has created confusion nearly two hundred years later about what or whom the
                    county's name commemorates. A careful review of the evidence, however, lends weight to the
                    idea that 
                        Randolph County
                     was named for the 
                        North Carolina
                     home of many of its earliest residents and not for Thomas 
                        Randolph
                    , who was killed at the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    .
            The earliest historians to discuss the county's name were Dewitt Goodrich, who wrote in
                    1875, and Ebenezer Tucker, whose The History of 
                            Randolph County
                        , Indiana appeared in 1882. They agreed, in Tucker's words,
                    "[T]he new county was named 
                        Randolph
                     from old 
                        Randolph County
                     in 
                        North Carolina
                    , because many of the residents within its limits had come from that county in the
                    ‘Old North State;’ and because a member of the Legislature, living within its
                    bounds, was also a native of that state."1 Tucker further identified
                    Ephraim Overman (1754–1824), a "member of the Legislature for 
                        Wayne County
                     in 1816" and a native of 
                  Randolph
                        County, North Carolina
               , as the
                    representative responsible for naming the Indiana county.2 Tucker had firsthand
                    access to this information, since he lived in 
                        Randolph County
                     from 1846 to 1854, in 1869, and again from 1873 until his death, much of the time in
                    Greensfork Township, where Overman and many of the other first settlers had arrived in 1814. Many of
                    the county's pioneers were still living in Greensfork Township (where the first settlement
                    was made) or in adjacent White River Township at the time Tucker first moved
                        there.3
            
            Overman was named in the act organizing 
                        Randolph County
                    , which was approved on January 10, 1818; his house was appointed 
                  
                     * Gregory P. Hinshaw is an assistant principal at Delta
                            High School, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana. An active student of 
                                Quaker
                             history, he has published two books in the field.
                  
                     1 Ebenezer Tucker, History of 
                                    Randolph County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1882), 36.
                  
                     2
                            Ibid., 367.
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., 79, 80, 81, 85. Some of these people included Jesse Parker and
                            Celia (Parker) Arnold, whose father, Thomas W. Parker, was the first settler of 
                                Randolph County
                            ; Squire Bowen; James C. Bowen, Mary (Cox) Beard, daughter of Benjamin Cox;
                            Elihu Cammack; and Simon Cox.
               
                     the site for the meetings of the men appointed to select a site
                    for the county's seat. Overman had lived more of his adult life in 
                  Randolph County, North
                        Carolina
               , than in any other place. He was born in 
                  Pasquotank County, North
                        Carolina
               , and moved to 
                        Randolph County
                     in 1781. Twenty-six years later, in 1807, he migrated to Indiana. Overman was elected
                    to the legislature in 1816 and had previously served in the territorial house of representatives in
                    1809 and 1810.4
                    
                        Pennsylvania
                    -born Jeremiah Cox (1763–1830), a 
                        Wayne County
                     member of the constitutional convention of 1816, lived in 
                  Randolph County, North
                        Carolina
               , even longer than Overman—from 1777 until 1806, when he
                    moved to 
                        Wayne County
                    , Indiana.5
            
            Two of the first county officers elected in August 1818 were born in 
                  Randolph County, North
                    Carolina
               . Eli Overman and Benjamin Cox, the native North Carolinians, met with
                    John James, the other new commissioner at Cox's cabin in August and organized the county
                    into townships. Eli Overman (1785–1855) was Ephraim Overman's son, and Benjamin
                    Cox was Jeremiah Cox's nephew; the younger Cox arrived in Indiana in 1816.6
            
            Some of the other men representing 
                        Wayne County
                     either at the constitutional convention of 1816 or in the General Assembly in
                    1817–1818, or in both bodies, also had connections with 
                  Randolph County, North
                    Carolina
               . Two legislators from 
                        Wayne County
                     had lived for a while in 
                        North Carolina
                    's 
                        Randolph County
                    . Robert Hill (1780–1850) was born there,7 and Patrick
                    Bearmaird (1769–1831), who was born in 
                        Ireland
                     and lived in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     as a young man, had settled for a time in 
                  Randolph
                            County, North Carolina
               , before
                    moving eventually to 
                        Wayne County
                    , Indiana, in 1812. Baird was a member of the constitutional convention and served in
                    the state senate from 1816 to 1823.8 A third 
                        Wayne County
                     representative, Joseph Hol- 
                  
                     4 John L. Smith and Lee L. Driver, Past and Present of 
                                    Randolph County
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1914), 117-19; Illustrated Historical Atlas of the State of
                                Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1876), 300; Rebecca A. Shepherd et al., A Biographical Directory
                                of the Indiana General Assembly (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1980), I, 302; William Wade Hinshaw, Encyclopedia of American 
                                    Quaker
                                 Genealogy (6 vols., 
                                Ann Arbor
                            , Mich., 1936), I, 158, 729, 832; Willard Heiss, Abstracts of the
                                Records of the Society of Friends in Indiana, Part One, (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1962), hereafter 
                        
                                    Quaker
                                 Abstracts, 3; Tucker, History of 
                                    Randolph County
                                
                     , 359.
                  
                     5 Shepherd et al., Biographical Directory, I, 82;
                            Hinshaw, Encyclopedia of 
                                    Quaker
                                 Genealogy, I, 381-82; Heiss, 
                        
                                    Quaker
                                 Abstracts, Part Two, 327; Indiana Legislative Bureau,
                            "Members of the Indiana Constitutional Convention of 1816," Indiana Magazine of History, XXVI (June 1930), 148.
                  
                     6 Smith and Driver, Past and Present of 
                                    Randolph County
                                
                     , 120; Hinshaw, Encyclopedia of 
                                    Quaker
                                 Genealogy, I, 382; Tucker, History of 
                                    Randolph County
                                
                     , 335, 359; Heiss, 
                        
                                    Quaker
                                 Abstracts, Part One, 3.
                  
                     7 Shepherd et al., Biographical Directory, I, 184;
                            Hinshaw, Encyclopedia of 
                                    Quaker
                                 Genealogy, I, 719.
                  
                     8 Shepherd et al., Biographical Directory, I, 18;
                            Hinshaw, Encyclopedia of 
                                    Quaker
                                 Genealogy, I, 648, 674, 870, 1148; "Members of the Indiana
                            Constitutional Convention," 147.
               
                    
                    
                  GRAVESTONE OF BENJAMIN COX (1780–1847) IN WHITE RIVER FRIENDS
                            BURYING GROUNDS NEAR WINCHESTER. COX WAS ONE OF MANY QUAKERS ASSOCIATED WITH THE ORIGINS OF
                            RANDOLPH COUNTY, INDIANA, WHO HAD TIES TO RANDOLPH COUNTY, NORTH CAROLINA
                  Gregory Hinshaw
                man, was a son-in-law of Ephraim Overman. Holman was also a member of the constitutional
                        convention.9
            
            Most of the early settlers of 
                        Randolph County
                     were either Quakers, like the Overmans, the Coxes, Beard, and Hill, or had connections
                    to 
                        Quaker
                     families, and many were from 
                        North Carolina
                    . These backgrounds created ties to the "Old North State" and prompted
                    a fierce opposition to slavery.10
            
            
               
                  9 Shepherd et al., Biographical Directory, I, 188;
                        Heiss, 
                     
                                Quaker
                             Abstracts, Part One, 3; J. P. Dunn, American Commonwealths:
                            Indiana: A Redemption from Slauery (
                            Boston
                        , 1888), 424; "Members of the Indiana Constitutional Convention,"
                        149.
               
                  10 Hinshaw, Encyclopedia of American 
                                Quaker
                             Genealogy, I, 648, 674, 870, 1090, 1115, 1148 (Beard); ibid., 158, 724, 832, 967, 1011 (Ephraim Overman); ibid., 679, 719
                        (Hill); ibid., 381-82 (Jeremiah Cox); ibid., 382 (Benjamin
                        Cox). See also Heiss, 
                     
                                Quaker
                             Abstracts, IV, 58 (Beard); ibid., II, 72 (Ephraim
                        Overman); ibid., I, 3, 117 (Hill); ibid., II, 327 (Jeremiah
                        Cox); and ibid., III, 13, 57 (Eli Overman).
            
            
            The idea of naming a county in Indiana for a home county in another state is not unprecedented. 
                        Orange County
                    , Indiana, organized in 1816, was named, largely through the efforts of its 
                        Quaker
                     settlers, for 
                  Orange County, North Carolina
               .11
            
            Despite the precedents of the early histories, by 1900 Alfred Pirtle claimed in a history of the
                    Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     that 
                        Randolph County
                     was named for Thomas 
                        Randolph
                    . He appears to be among the first to have made this attribution.12
                    The Indiana Magazine of History repeated the claim in 1912 in an article on
                    Indiana place names based on the work of Henry Gannett in a 
                        United States
                     Geological Survey bulletin published in 1902: "
                        Randolph
                    : County, named for Thomas 
                        Randolph
                    , killed at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    ."13 Kin Hubbard's A Book of
                    Indiana (1929) says of 
                        Randolph County
                    , "Credited with having been named for both 
                  Randolph county, North
                    Carolina
               , and Thomas 
                        Randolph
                    , attorney-general of Indiana Territory, killed in Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    ."14
            
            Charles Roll in Indiana: One Hundred Fifty Years of American Development (1938)
                    agreed: "The following counties in Indiana were named for participants in the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    : 
                  Bartholomew, Daviess
               , DuBois, Floyd, Owen, Parke, 
                  Randolph, Spencer, Tipton
               , and 
                        Warrick
                    ." Roll offered no documentation to support his explanation.15
            
            What seems to have begun as speculation about a connection between Thomas 
                        Randolph
                     and 
                        Randolph County
                     appears to have grown quickly into general acceptance by historians and by most
                    citizens of 
                        Randolph County
                    . By 1938 the Indiana Review, published by the state government, says,
                        
                        There is some doubt as to the origin of this county's name. It is said to have been
                            named in honor of the county in 
                                Virginia
                             [sic] from which the early settlers emigrated. Some sources
                            [not named], however, state it was so called in honor of Thomas 
                                Randolph
                            , Attorney-General of the Territory, who was killed in the battle of 
                                Tippecanoe
                            .16
                  
                     An article for the sesquicentennial of the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     quoted Pirtle as the source for the claim that 
                        Randolph County
                     was among the counties named for men who participated in the battle.17 A 1962 
                  
                     11 David T. Peek, Indiana Adventure (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1962), 204; Semi-Centennial Anniversary of Western Yearly Meeting
                                of Friends Church (
                                Plainfield
                            , Ind., 1908), 13-20.
                  
                     12 Alfred Pirtle, The Battle of 
                                    Tippecanoe
                                
                     , Filson Club Publications, No. 15 (
                                Louisville
                            , Ky., 1900), 78.
                  
                     13"Indiana Geographical Nomenclature," Indiana Magazine of History, VIII (June 1912), 74; Henry Gannett, The
                                Origin of Certain Place Names in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                United States
                             Geological Survey Bulletin 197; 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1902).
                  
                     14 Kin Hubbard, ed., A Book of Indiana (n.p., 1929),
                            95.
                  
                     15 Charles Roll, Indiana: One Hundred Fifty Years of
                                American Development (5 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1931), I, 294.
                  
                     16 Rolland E. Friedman, ed., Indiana Review, Pictorial,
                                Political, Historical (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1938), 357.
                  
                     17 Florence G. Watts, ed., "Lieutenant Charles
                            Larrabee's Account of the Battle of 
                                Tippecanoe
                            , 1811," Indiana Magazine of History, LVII (September
                            1961), 225.
               
                     school textbook states, "It was probably named after
                    Thomas 
                        Randolph
                    , who was killed in the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    ."18
            
            Joe 
                        Hamilton
                    , a researcher in 
                        Randolph County
                     history, briefly addressed the issue of the county's name in the July 1962
                    edition of the 
                  
                            Randolph County
                         Historical Review. He concluded that there was not enough evidence on either
                    side of the controversy to draw a conclusion. While he admitted that Robert Hill, one of the members
                    of the legislature at the time was from 
                  Randolph County,
                            North Carolina
               , he did not discover
                    other 
                        North Carolina
                     connections. He also argued, "If… the Governor [Harrison] named the
                    county, he would no doubt have been inclined to favor Thomas 
                        Randolph
                     as its namesake."19 However, 
                        Hamilton
                     failed to notice that William Henry Harrison had been gone from office for nearly six
                    years by the time 
                        Randolph County
                     was organized.
            Other historians repeated the claim that the county was named for Thomas 
                        Randolph
                    . Ronald L. Baker and Marvin Carmony (1975) state, "Organized in 1818 and
                    probably named for Thomas 
                        Randolph
                    , territorial attorney general who was killed in the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , although some soms [not named] say for 
                  Randolph
                            County, North
                        Carolina
               ."20 A road map printed by the 
                        Randolph County
                     Republican Central Committee in 1991 states, "
                        Randolph County
                     was named in honor of Thomas 
                        Randolph
                     …," and the Hearne Brothers Official Earth Science
                        Poly conic Projection Map of Indiana states emphatically, "[
                        Randolph County
                    ] was named for Thomas 
                        Randolph
                    , killed at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    ."21
            
            Despite what has been a growing trend toward associating the county's name with Thomas 
                        Randolph
                     in the last century, little evidence besides the coincidence of Thomas 
                        Randolph
                     having died at 
                        Tippecanoe
                     has been offered to support the idea. However, there is considerable evidence that
                    Thomas 
                        Randolph
                     had few friends or supporters in the eastern part of Indiana territory, especially
                    among the men likely to have the power to name the new county.
            
               
                        Randolph
                     was born in 1771 in 
                  Richmond, Virginia
               , to an aristocratic colonial family. A
                    graduate of the College of William and Mary and a former member of the 
                        Virginia
                     assembly, he was appointed attorney general of the Indiana Territory by William Henry
                    Harrison on June 8, 1808.22 He was a candidate for Congress from the 
                  
                     18 Peek, Indiana Adventure, 206.
                  
                     19 Joe 
                                Hamilton
                            , "Was 
                                Randolph County
                             Named for Thomas 
                                Randolph
                            ?" 
                        
                                    Randolph County
                                 Historical Review, II (1962), 16.
                  
                     20 Ronald L. Baker and Marvin Carmony, Indiana Place
                                Names (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1975), 137.
                  
                     21
                            Road Map of 
                                    Randolph County
                                , Indiana (1991); Hearne Brothers Official Earth Science
                                Polyconic Projection Map of Indiana (
                                Detroit
                            , Mich., 1984).
                  
                     22
                            
                                Hamilton
                            , "Was 
                                Randolph County
                             Named for Thomas 
                                Randolph
                            ?," 16. See also William Wesley Woollen, "Thomas 
                                Randolph
                            ," Biographical and Historical Sketches of Early
                            Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1883), 391-99.
               
                    
                    
                  THOMAS RANDOLPH
                  Indiana State Library
               
                     Territory in 1809. As Harrison's friend and fellow
                    Virginian, 
                        Randolph
                     was opposed by the governor's critics.23 And,
                    unfortunately for 
                        Randolph
                    , Governor Harrison was becoming increasingly unpopular, especially in the eastern part
                    of the territory, over the central issue of slavery, which Harrison supported.24
            
            
               
                        Randolph
                     attempted to equivocate over slavery but was clearly seen as proslavery by most of the
                    territory's voters. He said during the campaign, "I differ with them [who oppose
                    slavery's introductionl in opinion; my voice would be in favor of the introduction [of
                        slavery]."25 He also lived in 
                        Knox County
                    , which was seen as a great detriment to him by those living in the eastern part of the
                        territory.26 He was regarded as one of Harrison's inner circle and
                    as a supporter of the suspension of the sixth article of the Northwest Ordinance, the article that
                    prohibited slavery.27
            
            Challenging 
                        Randolph
                     for the congressional seat was Jonathan Jennings, a native of 
                        New Jersey
                     who made himself the antislavery candidate. Indiana historian Jacob P. Dunn said,
                        
                        [I]n the northern part of the [
                                Dearborn
                            ] county [now 
                                Wayne County
                            ] there was a fairer prospect [for Jennings]. For several years there had been
                            pouring into the upper Whitewater valley a veritable tide of emigration
                            from North and 
                                South Carolina
                            . These settlers were nearly all Quakers, many of them of Huguenot descent, who
                            had left the South on account of their dislike of slavery.28
                  
                     These settlers in the northern part of 
                        Dearborn County
                     held a convention near Elkhorn Creek, sitting on logs that had been cut for a building.
                    The "Log Convention" resolved strongly against slavery and nominated a local
                    candidate, George Hunt, for delegate to Congress. Hunt was to be withdrawn if citizens of 
                        Clark County
                    , which was Jennings's home, nominated a suitable candidate. Holman, then a
                    young man, was sent from the Whitewater community to 
                        Clark County
                     to investigate the situation. By the time Holman returned from 
                        Clark County
                    , Jennings himself was in the Whitewater Valley, as were agents of 
                        Randolph
                    . 
                        Randolph
                    's friends discovered that their candidate would not carry the region, but they
                    managed to convince Hunt to withdraw. Jennings's interaction with the Holman family brought
                    their support, and the Holmans canvassed the neighborhood with the candidate, building support.29
            
            The political divisions emanating from the slavery issue lasted for many years. "[T]he
                    entire Harrison interest became known as the 
                  
                     23 John D. Barnhart and Dorothy L. Riker, Indiana to
                                1816: The Colonial Period (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1971), 357.
                  
                     24 Dunn, Indiana, 355-83.
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., 386.
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., 361-62, 386, 388.
                  
                     27 Ellmore Barce, "Governor Harrison and the Treaty of 
                                Fort Wayne
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History, XI (December 1915),
                            354-55.
                  
                     28 Dunn, Indiana, 391.
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., 392-95.
               
                    
                    
                        Virginia
                     Aristocrats, while the opposition coolly appropriated the title of the People. These
                    names continued all through the territorial times, and until national politics became superior to
                    local politics in the state."30 It is doubtful that 
                        Quaker
                     and eastern Indiana sentiments against "the Aristocrats" had abated
                    by 1818, a date long before the time that national politics became superior to local politics in
                    Indiana.
            At the election, Jennings eked out a narrow victory, apparently on the basis of voting irregularities
                    in 
                        Dearborn County
                    , which he carried 143 to 72. Jennings won the heavily 
                        Quaker
                     northern, or first, district of 
                        Dearborn County
                     with every vote cast except one. 
                        Randolph
                     contested the election all the way to Congress, presenting a memorial on December 4,
                    but Jennings was finally granted the seat.31 After the election 
                        Randolph
                    , seeking to settle some political scores, challenged Doctor Elias McNamee to a duel.
                    McNamee was a former 
                        Quaker
                     who had written vociferously, though anonymously, against him and slavery in the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Sun. The doctor, as a pacifist, not only declined the duel, he also reported 
                        Randolph
                     to the authorities and had him "put under bonds to keep the
                        peace."32
            
            After 1809 the political situation in northern 
                        Dearborn County
                     changed very little. In 1810 Governor Harrison's new appointee for judge of
                    the common pleas of 
                        Dearborn
                    , Solomon Manwaring, enraged local settlers when the government began enforcing the
                    militia law, which forced Quakers to pay fines for refusing military service. This action further
                    inflamed the area against Harrison and his supporters.33 Jennings was reelected
                    in 1811, again defeating 
                        Randolph
                    .34
            
            By 1818 the political climate of the state had completely shifted away from the 
                        Virginia
                     aristocracy and toward Jennings. Harrison resigned in 1812, and Jennings led the drive
                    toward statehood.35 He was elected the first governor in 1816, handily defeating
                    Thomas Posey, the candidate of Harrison's party. The legislature that organized 
                        Randolph County
                     was the second, elected in 1817. In 1817-1818 one of the ten state senators was Beard,
                    and one of the twenty-nine representatives was Hill. Holman was also a member of the state house.
                    These men undoubtedly played a role in naming 
                        Randolph County
                    , Indiana.
            While it is not known who actually introduced the measure to establish 
                        Randolph County
                     in the General Assembly, it seems high- 
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., 397.
                  
                     31
                            Ibid., 398, 401-403; Barnhart and Riker, Indiana to
                            1816, 358-59.
                  
                     32 Dunn, Indiana, 399; Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches, 396-97; John D. Barnhart, "The
                            Democratization of the Indiana Territory," ibid., XLIII (March
                            1947), 18-21. McNamee had been disowned by Westland Monthly Meeting of Friends in 
                                Pennsylvania
                             for marriage out of unity in 1801. Hinshaw, Encyclopedia of 
                                    Quaker
                                 Genealogy, IV, 47.
                  
                     33 Dunn, Indiana, 408.
                  
                     34 Barnhart, "Democratization of the Indiana
                            Territory," 21.
                  
                     35 Dunn, Indiana, 412, 419.
               
                     ly unlikely that 
                        Wayne County
                     Quakers and other antislavery men would have promoted or allowed a new county in their
                    district to be named for Thomas 
                        Randolph
                    , whom they had rejected at the polls by a resounding majority twice in the previous
                    decade. The reputation of 
                        Randolph
                    , the "aristocrat" associated with slavery, militia fines, and
                    military campaigns, could not have been repaired among the Whitewater Valley Quakers in such short
                    order. Further it should be remembered that the governor who signed the act into effect was none
                    other than Jonathan Jennings, the man against whom Thomas 
                        Randolph
                     had fought two bitter campaigns in the previous decade. It seems wholly unbelievable
                    that the governor would have encouraged or allowed a county to be named for a vanquished political
                    foe of only seven years before. It seems far more likely that he acquiesced in the desire of some of
                    his oldest and most loyal supporters to commemorate their home county in their new state.
            Primary sources proving conclusively that 
                        Randolph County
                    , Indiana, was named for 
                  Randolph County,
                            North Carolina
               , will probably never be
                    found, yet the preponderance of evidence shows the connections between eastern Indiana's
                    most prominent early men and 
                  Randolph County, North Carolina
               , as well as their hostility to
                    Thomas 
                        Randolph
                    .
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Underground Railroad in 
                            Floyd County
                        , Indiana. By Pamela R. Peters. (Jefferson, N.C.: McFarland &
                    Company, Inc., Publishers, 2001. Pp. vi, 218. Illustrations, maps, appendices, notes, bibliography,
                    index. Paperbound, $42.50.)
            The Underground Railroad in southern Indiana is often believed to have been a system run by white
                    abolitionists, in which AfXcan Americans played a minor role. Furthermore, given the secret and
                    dangerous nature of its work, little evidence about it is presumed to have survived. To dispel these
                    and other errors, Pamela R. Peters uncovers a complex web of information surrounding the workings of
                    the Underground Railroad in 
                        Floyd County
                    , Indiana. While Peters is careful not to overstate her findings, she brings new
                    understanding to this greatest of all American liberation movements.
            
               
                        Floyd County
                     was well situated as a gateway to freedom for slaves escaping across the Ohio
                        River, since 
                        New Albany
                    , the county seat, was directly across from 
                        Louisville
                    . That city was "the largest Southern city bordering the Ohio
                    River" (p. 5) and, equally important, a major slave-trading center. Despite the
                    risks, 
                        Floyd County
                     residents, especially free African Americans, found ways to help fugitive slaves.
            Located in secluded rural areas and in neighborhoods of 
                        New Albany
                     that were near the Ohio River, African Americans' homes
                    offered shelter and safety from slave catchers eager for cash rewards. Free blacks who worked on
                        Ohio River steamboats and on the 
                        Salem
                    -New 
                        Albany
                     Railroad found frequent opportunities to aid fugitives. Furthermore, family members,
                    churches, businesses, and Free Mason lodges connected 
                        Floyd County
                     African Americans to networks in 
                        Louisville
                     and to places farther north. Using a combination of written records and oral histories,
                    Peters demonstrates that the free African Americans were "the backbone of the Underground
                    Railroad in the 
                        New Albany
                    -
                        Floyd County
                     area" (p. 59).
            Among white 
                        Floyd County
                     residents, New School Presbyterians and Wesleyan Methodists were well known for their
                    condemnation of slavery. The Presbyterian 
                        New Albany
                     Theological Seminary "became synonymous with abolitionism" (p. 52).
                    Such convictions, Peters contends, linked ministers and church members to the Underground Railroad.
                    Peters raises the intriguing possibility that James Brooks, an elder of 
                        New Albany
                    's Second Presbyterian Church, used his position as president of the 
                        New Albany
                    –
                        Salem
                     Railroad to issue free train passes to slaves fleeing north. Since this railroad was a
                    reputed route for fugitive slaves and Brooks "was known for helping the poor," (p.
                    49) it seems all the more likely that he was active in the Underground Railroad. Peters also finds
                    oral traditions within 
                        Floyd County
                    's African American community that tie German immigrants in 
                        New Albany
                     to the work.
            
            Peters also examines other escape routes in Indiana beyond 
                        Floyd County
                    , the Underground Railroad sites in and near 
                        New Albany
                    , and other individuals known for helping fugitive slaves. The book's
                    illustrations include photographs of 
                        Floyd County
                     descendants of Underground Railroad workers. An appendix presents census and military
                    records for 
                        Floyd County
                     African American residents, a detailed bibliography, and extensive chapter notes. The
                    author lists freedom papers, bills of sale, and deeds of manumission filed in the 
                        Floyd County
                     Recorder's Office. Under the threat of the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850 and the
                    Indiana Exclusion Act of 1851, these documents gave free African Americans the legal right to remain
                    in Indiana, though it guaranteed them little else.
            Peters shows that 
                        Floyd County
                     played a significant role in the history of the Underground Railroad. She reminds us of
                    those who helped liberate fellow Americans only 150 years ago and at the same time demonstrates that
                    African Americans played a leading role in this process. Finally, for historians searching to
                    unravel the mysteries of this largely hidden American drama, Peters offers new directions.
            PEGGY SEIGEL has published articles on Indiana women Civil War nurses and on 
                        Quaker
                     women reformers from East Central Indiana. Her study of a 
                        Fort Wayne
                     abolitionist newspaper appeared in the September 2001 Indiana Magazine of
                        History.
            
         
         
            
               The Indiana University School of Music: A History. By George M. Logan. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2000. Pp. xvii, 360. Illustrations, appendices, notes,
                    index. $29.95.)
            The large and prestigious School of Music at Indiana University 
                        Bloomington
                     now has a large, well-documented, and well-written history to match. George M. Logan (a
                    noted scholar of Renaissance literature) brings experience in academic life and scholarly
                    thoroughness to the task of creating a comprehensive narrative of the school's nearly
                    hundred-year history. The result is a fascinating, detailed, and readable account.
            With the exception of the first chapter ("Beginnings"), the book's seven
                    main divisions are named for and follow the school's fortunes through the administrations
                    of four deans (Barzille Winfred Merrill, Robert L. Sanders, Wilfred Bain, and Charles Webb). Bain
                    and Webb, who held the deanship for twenty-six and twenty-four years respectively, are given two
                    chapters each, appropriately placing their work at the heart of Logan's narrative.
                    Naturally, the history tells readers much about the school's development and growth, but
                    the book also provides a telling glimpse into the changing nature of university deanships during the
                    twentieth century.
            Appointed in 1919, Merrill grew increasingly autocratic. In contrast, Sanders (whose chapter is
                    subtitled "Experiment in Democracy") attempted to involve the school's
                    faculty in its governance, but as their numbers grew, decision making slowed to a crawl. Truly  magisterial, Bain took control of the school in 1947 and raised
                    it to unprecedented and unequaled prominence during his long tenure. The often brutal manner in
                    which Bain achieved his objectives included maintaining a penurious payroll and dismissing faculty
                    members when a musician Bain felt was more eminent could be persuaded to take a position in 
                        Bloomington
                    . Burgeoning enrollments during the postwar years (which not incidentally included
                    veterans with mature voices) enabled Dean Bain to attract a sufficient number of student musicians
                    to support large vocal and instrumental ensembles and credibly establish Indiana
                    University's Opera Theater as the chief jewel in the school's crown. With Bain at
                    the helm of the School of Music and Herman B Wells as the university's chief executive, the
                    sky was the limit, as Wells's backing of Bain was virtually unqualified.
            Webb took over when Bain reached mandatory retirement age in 1973. Bain expected his protege to
                    continue to do his bidding, while faculty and students looked to Webb for a welcome change from
                    Bain's dictatorship. The difficulties of deanship in an era of shared governance, rising
                    costs, shrinking budgets, and increased university administrative complexities are clear. A brief
                    postlude discusses the administration of David Woods, who was appointed dean after Webb retired in
                    1997. Confronted with a mandate for fundraising, a growing deficit, and increasing problems with
                    administration and faculty, he resigned after only two years.
            Logan assesses many situations frankly, though the project was tackled mainly from the vantage points
                    of administrators, faculty, and staff, and the book is clearly laudatory. Insight and documentation
                    add authority to the work's many anecdotes. Students of Indiana history and of Indiana
                    University will find that Logan has admirably shown how "the foremost American school of
                    music" (p. 5) attained its status.
            ANN L. SILVERBERG (M.M. Musicology, Indiana University School of Music, 1981, Ph.D., Musicology,
                    University of 
                        Illinois
                    , 1992) is associate professor of music at Austin Peay State University, Clarksville, 
                        Tennessee
                    . She is the author of A Sympathy with Sounds: A Brief History of the
                        University of 
                            Illinois
                         School of Music to Celebrate Its Centennial (1995).
         
         
            
               Our Towns: Remembering Community in Indiana. By John Bodnar. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 2001. Pp. wiii, 218. Map, notes, illustrations, appendix,
                    index. $29.95.)
            Since the invention of the tape recorder enhanced our ability to capture people's memories,
                    oral history has played a major role in documenting state and local history. Our Towns:
                        Remembering Community in Indiana is a welcome addition to our understanding of Indiana
                    history and of the history of community in local settings.
            This volume contains the transcripts of thirty-one interviews, recording the recollections of
                    thirty-nine individuals, obtained between 1976 and 1996 by thirteen different interviewers,
                    including John  Bodnar, the compiler of this volume and the
                    author of its introductory essay. Without intruding themselves too much in the process, the
                    interviewers skillfully elicited from their respondents a sense of what it was like to live and how
                    conditions changed in Indiana during the decades after World War I.
            Identifying community as the book's central theme makes sense, since it is people's
                    relationships with neighbors, fellow workers, and the groups they come into contact with that stand
                    out in the interviews. A variety of conditions surrounding community life can be observed in the
                    interviews, which deal with six different towns and cities: 
                        Evansville
                     and Paoli in the southern part of the state, 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Anderson toward the center, and Whiting and 
                        South Bend
                     in the north. From the interviews the reader derives a picture of life in both rural
                    and urban settings. In 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the focus is on the black community. In Anderson, the center of attention is
                    automobile workers and the sit-down strike of 1936–1937. The automobile industry also is
                    a subject in the 
                        South Bend
                     interviews, but here perspectives of both workers and management are presented. Ethnic
                    communities, especially among Slovak immigrants, stand out in the case of Whiting. Residents in
                    Paoli and 
                        Evansville
                     discuss life in town and in the country more generally.
            The topics discussed in the 210 double-columned pages of text cannot easily be summarized or
                    pigeonholed. They remind us of how various, complex, and often conflicted history is.
                    People's lives differ tremendously from family to family, place to place, and time to time.
                    For some, community revolved around family and neighborhood. For others, it was school, church,
                    work, or recreation. For many, it was all of these. There is evidence here to confirm the central
                    thesis of Robert 
                        Putnam
                    's Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American
                    Community (2000) that the spirit of community was once more vital and vibrant than it has
                    become in recent decades. Whether one emphasizes the decay of community or its continuing vitality,
                    however, collections like these provide wonderful sources of evidence for evaluating those
                    tendencies. It is to be hoped that other states will emulate Indiana in similar ventures and that
                    the Indiana Historical Society will follow up with further volumes.
            JOHN E. MILLER, professor of history at South Dakota State University, Brookings, is the author
                        of Looking for History on Highway 14 (1993, rev. ed. 2001) and other
                    publications on midwestern culture and politics. He is working on a book about small town boys who
                    grew up in the Midwest.
         
         
            
               Doc: Memories from a Life in Public Service. By Otis R. Bowen, with William Du
                    Bois, Jr. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2000. Pp. x, 232. Illustrations, index. $24.95.)
            The story of a small-town physician who started out in local government as coroner and eventually
                    went on to serve as Secretary  of Health and Human Services under
                    President Reagan does not instantly engage one's attention as absorbing reading. What makes
                    it so is that the memoirist achieved one of Indiana's and, for that matter, the
                    nation's more remarkable careers in politics and government.
            Throughout his years as member and speaker of the Indiana House of Representatives and then as
                    governor of Indiana for two terms, Otis R. Bowen practiced the art of public service as competently
                    as he had his profession of family medicine. The Republican physician from 
                        Bremen
                    , known as Doc, brought to the statehouse a combination of diagnostic intelligence,
                    pragmatic treatment, and sympathetic judgment seldom found among his fellow politicians, who usually
                    came from legal, teaching, farming, and small business backgrounds.
            His account of his career provides a straightforward rendering of what he set out to accomplish,
                    whether he succeeded or failed (he nearly always got his way), and how he arranged the alliances
                    necessary to his purposes. There is nothing in his first-person narrative, told in a manner that
                    evokes his low-pitched, slow-talking, near monotone, that suggests excessive passion. Practically
                    everything he initiated and carried out—property-tax restraints, public health measures,
                    disaster relief efforts—was managed with much the same careful, methodical, thoughtful
                    approach.
            This is not to suggest that Doc Bowen recalls his career in public service as dull and plodding or
                    that his actual accomplishments were less than memorable. Whether by accident or design, he
                    presented himself to the electorate in the old-fashioned bedside manner of the country doctor who
                    regularly made house-calls (which he still did throughout his practice). This may help to account
                    for the high levels of trust and respect he consistently enjoyed.
            All the same, Doc Bowen reveals himself as a man of strong, even stubborn convictions and of
                    considerable pride in what he was able to get done. "As governor, I never was afraid to
                    spend for real needs. Before doing that, however, I wanted to be certain that we had been careful to
                    separate ‘wants’ from needs" (p. 120). And again: "I take
                    pride that in 1979, my next-to-last year in office, Indiana ranked fiftieth in the nation in taxes
                    collected from individuals. Mind you, we had that ranking six years after we increased state-level
                    taxes to reduce dependence on property taxes. I consider our position as a low-tax state to be
                    another of my major accomplishments as governor" (p. 120).
            While he is generous in expressing his gratitude to those who worked with him, Bowen can be sharply
                    critical of those who sought to defeat his policy initiatives—mostly fellow Republicans
                    such as former Indiana attorney general Theodore L. Sendak, Edwin Meese, and William Bennett. The
                    White House "minions" (as he calls them) and the federal bureaucrats he had to
                    deal with as governor and then  as Secretary of Health and Human
                    Services—particularly in the struggle to secure Medicare insurance coverage for
                    catastrophic illness—prompt much of his annoyance and outright contempt.
            Overall, Doc Bowen's reminiscences provide an instructive survey of the career and the
                    private life of one of Indiana's most effective statesmen. As a personal record, the book
                    should prove useful both to students of Indiana politics and to general readers who are willing to
                    learn something encouraging of a good life well lived.
            KENT OWEN has long been associated with The American Spectator as a
                    contributing writer and editor. He formerly taught literature at Albion College, Earlham College,
                    and Indiana University, and lives in 
                        Bloomington
                    .
         
         
            
               Picturing Utopia: Bertha Shambaugh & the Amana Photographers. By
                    Abigail Foerstner. (
                        Iowa
                     City: University of 
                        Iowa
                     Press, 2000. Pp. xiv, 148. Illustrations, notes, bibliography. $34.95.)
            In the 1850s a group of German Pietists established the Amana Society near 
                        Iowa
                     City, 
                        Iowa
                    , which became one of America's more successful communal experiments. One
                    hundred and fifty years later, Abigail Foerstner, a descendant of Amana residents, has compiled an
                    impressive array of photographs of this community. The work of Bertha Shambaugh and ten Amana
                    photographers, these pictures date from the late-nineteenth through the mid-twentieth centuries and
                    reflect Amana as it changed from a communal society into a corporation of individual shareholders.
            In the first half of the book, Foerstner provides a history of Shambaugh, the Amana society, and the
                    Amana photographers (including her great uncle William Foerstner). Shambaugh (1871-19531, a
                    "modern woman" who attended the University of 
                        Iowa
                    , was the first outsider to photograph Amana. Impressed by several childhood trips to
                    the society, she made it the focus of her "career" as an amateur documentary
                    photographer. She published her first illustrated article on the society in 1896. Her book, Amana: The Community of True Inspiration, followed in 1908 and sealed her
                    reputation as an expert on the community.
            Shambaugh's significance, according to Foerstner, lies not only in her publications but also
                    in her undermining of the group's prohibition against photography, which Amana elders
                    banned as worldly. Foerstner explains Shambaugh's defiance of this order as sheer
                    "spunk" that "earned fond forbearance on the part of the Amana elders.
                    Her… sincere interest in the Amanas engendered trust, and no one wanted to deny her wish
                    to just take a few photographs" (p. 39). Shambaugh sparked an interest in photography among
                    some residents, which led to a reiteration of the ban on picture taking, but the Amana photographers
                    ignored the prohibition and began to document their own community.
            While Foerstner's introduction provides a needed context for the photographs, the book
                    suffers from several problems. The text  rambles in places and,
                    overall, lacks a scholarly basis. The few sources that Foerstner cites are generally old; she does
                    not incorporate recent scholarship on women, the Progressive era, or communal societies. Moreover,
                    Foerstner does not cite documentary evidence when discussing the lifting of the ban against
                    photography. Since the colony was making an important accommodation to the world in permitting
                    photographs, one expects a fuller explanation for the change than Foerstner provides.
            The most enlightening, and the most troubling, section of the book is the photographs themselves. As
                    personal and historical documents, they are priceless. They open a window for modern readers onto a
                    past that has largely been forgotten, and their historic value seems to justify the
                    photographers' defiance of the ban against pictures. Yet the photographs are also
                    bittersweet reminders of the fragile nature of intentional societies. While Foerstner views the
                    photographs in a favorable light, arguing that photography allowed Amana residents to assert their
                    individuality in a society based on conformity, she ignores the danger that such behavior poses to
                    communal groups. Admittedly one cannot explain the loss of Amana's communal basis as solely
                    the product of the group's embracing of photography, but the pictures are tangible evidence
                    of the changing values of the society and remind the reader that maintaining a balance between
                    individuality and communal identity is an issue with which every scholar, and every resident, of a
                    communal society must contend.
            SUZANNE THURMAN teaches history at the University of 
                        Alabama
                    -Huntsville. Her book, "O, Sisters Ain't You
                        Happy?": Gender, Family, and Community Among the 
                            Harvard
                         and Shirley Shakers, 1781–1918, has been recently published by 
                        Syracuse
                     University Press.
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Gettysburg
                        —The First Day. By Harry W. Pfanz. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 2001. Pp. xviii, 472. Illustrations, maps, appendices, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $34.95.)
            The battlefield at 
                        Gettysburg
                     is hallowed ground. It has been described as "a vision place of
                    souls," and those who write about it must bring that understanding to the page. Harry W.
                    Pfanz is the dean of 
                        Gettysburg
                     historians and in this work, the latest volume of his magnificently detailed study, has
                    brought to us that sensitivity, the result of a lifetime of scholarship.
            This book succeeds in bringing the tumultuous, often confusing fight into a focus rarely achieved.
                    Pfanz accomplishes this by layering personal accounts by participants until a coherent picture
                    emerges. There is heroism and its dark opposite, simple straightforward testimony as well as
                    self-serving grandiosity, predictable outcome interspersed with startling surprise, and all the
                    while irony and gut-wrenching tragedy.
            The first day of 
                        Gettysburg
                     dawned with armies scattered and men, in small numbers at first, groping toward each
                    other, and then,  as the day went on, trying to kill each other
                    until there were upward of 40,000 men engaged in desperate struggle. What in ensuing years would
                    become a place of reverent memory of those who fought and died there was on that first of July, in
                    the hot sun, a swarming melee, more like a mammoth tavern brawl than an organized battle.
            It was the stuff of legend. Pfanz tells it all and, as is his penchant, offers his opinions on
                    long-enduring questions. Among them are why the Army of Northern 
                        Virginia
                     failed to follow up on its success; what caused the collapse of the Army of the
                    Potomac's Eleventh Corps; who should be credited with selecting the Cemetery Hill position;
                    what Union regiment was the last to leave the field west of the town along the Chambersburg pike and
                    railroad cut; and why the Confederate General James Archer was not supported in the morning,
                    resulting in his capture, along with hundreds of his men.
            Some unexpected conclusions are drawn, and the author supports them with extensive endnotes. They add
                    immensely to the quality of the book. But what stand out above all are the poignant stories of the
                    men on a summer's day long ago. In these trying times when Americans are witnessing again
                    valor borne of tragedy, they remind us that American history is made from the lives of its people.
                    One can only hope that Pfanz's fourth and presumably final volume on 
                        Gettysburg
                     is being written. When it is complete it is likely to constitute the best history of an
                    American battle ever written.
            JAMES A. TRULOCK, a retired legislative representative of the United Auto Workers and past
                    president of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Civil War Round Table, edited The History of the 83rd 
                            Pennsylvania
                         Volunteer Infantry Regiment (1985). He lectures extensively on the Army of the
                    Potomac and appears on the History Channel's Civil War Journal series.
         
         
            
               American Towns: An Interpretive History. By David J. Russo. (
                        Chicago
                    : Ivan R. Dee, 2001. Pp. [xv], 350. Figures, map, illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $28.95.)
            Throughout much of the twentieth century, scholars attempted to capture the essence of American
                    towns. Their challenge was as much ideological as academic. Since most Americans live in cities and
                    suburbs but say they would rather live in small towns, these communities certainly occupy an
                    important and enduring place in the national ethos. In documenting the character of small-town life,
                    David J. Russo joins that long line of academicians who have sought to explain the character,
                    quality, and appeal of these distinctively American places. From the outset, Russo defines
                    interpretive history as "the patterns of life among those who have lived
                    in American towns—what connects them rather than separates them" (p. ix). This
                    book is reminiscent of historian Richard R. Lingeman's Small Town America: A
                        Narrative History, 1620-Present (1980) and geographer John A. Jakle's The American Small Town: Twentieth Century Place
                    
                    Images (1982). In the twenty years since those books were published, many more
                    books and articles about American towns have emerged, and many of them are listed in
                    Russo's bibliography. He has made good use of them in his well-documented, sometimes
                    encyclopedic text.
            Russo's book is predicated on the supposition that the site and the design of towns are
                    important factors in setting the tone of small town life. Accordingly, he begins by analyzing places
                    in considerable detail. This technique has been embraced by many historians since at least the 1950s
                    and 1960s, when Lewis Atherton wrote Main Street on the Middle Border (1954) and
                    Page Smith completed his classic As a City Upon a Hill: The Town in American
                    History (1968). Like Smith, Russo begins with New 
                        England
                    . Although Russo implicitly uses New 
                        England
                     as both the source and yardstick for all subsequent town development, he does
                    acknowledge the importance of the Middle West in the pattern of American town life. He also
                    acknowledges (albeit in fleeting references) earlier Native American and Spanish antecedents to
                    American community life in some areas.
            Organized chronologically, American Towns treats a number of basic themes, notably
                    politics, economics, society, and culture. To achieve his goal in integrating American culture,
                    Russo cites case studies of particular places throughout the country, including several Indiana
                    communities. He makes very effective use of both primary and secondary sources. Actually, even
                    though the word "interpretation" appears in the title and is the stated goal of
                    this book, it is description at which Russo excels. This is not an underhanded compliment: although
                    description is often denigrated by academicians, it is indeed an art—and clearly an art
                    that Russo has mastered.
            
               American Towns ends with a brief (seven pages) synopsis of the town in myth and
                    reality. Russo concludes that "[tlhe impulse for Americans to live in or locate their
                    activities in small local communities was still a vital one" in the late twentieth
                    century—even though "most people, most activities, and most institutions were
                    situated in fast-spreading urban settings" (p. 296). This is not startling news for those
                    who know the American psyche: for more than a century, Americans have praised small towns while
                    moving away from them—much as many praise hardship as a builder of character while
                    avoiding it at all costs. Although Russo does not fully explain why such a longing for small towns
                    persists, he does help us better understand how towns develop(ed) and function(ed) as part of our
                    collective past. Overall, American Towns is a solid synthesis of a remarkably rich
                    literature, told in a refreshingly straightforward manner.
            RICHARD FRANCAVIGLIA is professor of history and geography at the University of 
                        Texas
                     at Arlington, where he also directs the Center for Greater Southwestern Studies and the
                    History of Cartography. He has published six books, including Main Street Revisited:
                        Time, Space, and Image-Building in Small Town America (1996).
         
         
         
            
               A Social Contract for the Coal Fields: The Rise and Fall of the United Mine Workers
                        of America Welfare and Retirement Fund. By Richard P. Mulcahy. (
                        Knoxville
                    : University of 
                        Tennessee
                     Press, 2000. Pp. xiv, 274. Illustrations, notes, tables, bibliography, index.
                    $34.00.)
            Richard P. Mulcahy argues that the United Mine Workers of America's creation of a retirement
                    and welfare fund was a major breakthrough for coal miners and the labor movement and that it played
                    a pioneering role in both inaugurating and terminating the social contract between major labor
                    unions and employers in the post-World War II era. Responding to pressure from union members, John
                    L. Lewis placed health care and pensions at the top of his collective bargaining agenda with the
                    Bituminous Coal Operators Association in 1946. The defeat of a proposal for a national health care
                    system and the issuance of the 
                        Boone
                     report, which documented the inadequate medical care available to rural Appalachian
                    coal miners, increased the urgency of this demand.
            Using a variety of sources, especially fund files, Mulcahy analyzes the formation of a new
                    relationship between the union and coal operators. Their social contract was based upon union
                    acceptance of mechanization and a reduced labor force in exchange for high wages, medical benefits,
                    and pensions. He emphasizes the health care component of the fund, especially the initial
                    extensiveness of the benefits and their later curtailment as medical costs skyrocketed. In addition,
                    Mulcahy notes the opposition of the American Medical Association, especially some of its state and
                    county affiliates, which feared the fund's emphasis on group practice, retainer fees for
                    doctors, and quality care at low costs.
            He praises the vision of Lewis and Josephine Roche and the skills of the professionals who
                    administered the fund. They are credited both with creating an innovative physical rehabilitation
                    program and with establishing clinics and a network of hospitals. However, the fimd suffered
                    setbacks in the 1960s as W. A. (Tony) Boyle replaced Lewis as the union president, a new generation
                    of coal company executives saw royalty payments to the fund as a threat to their competitiveness,
                    and coal miners complained about reduced benefits and restricted eligibility. Nevertheless, both
                    medical coverage and pensions continued into the late 1970s, when the 1978 contracts provided health
                    care through private insurance programs purchased by employers.
            The book is most valuable as a detailed description and analysis of the rise and fall of the health
                    care component of the fund. Mulcahy adeptly depicts the difficulties that its implementers faced,
                    describes the benefits derived from it by coal miners and their families, and notes how the fund
                    fits into the social contract system of coal industry labor relations policy. The pension aspect
                    receives less attention, and Mulcahy neglects the role played by this issue in the coal  strikes of the 1980s and 1990s. His favorable assessment of Lewis and
                    his very critical depiction of Arnold Miller and his appointees differ from the evaluations of other
                    specialists. Presentation of the fund story in a wider context would enrich its meaning. The fund
                    was formed during a time of labor ferment, including a strike wave in 1946, attempts to establish
                    economic democracy, and the negotiations by Walter Reuther for a contract for auto workers that
                    included wage increases, health care coverage, and pensions. The demise of the health care system of
                    the United Mine Workers coincided with increasing competition for unionized coal production from
                    western coal fields, from domestic oil and natural gas production, and from imported fuel.
                    Nevertheless, this book is a valuable institutional study of the health care aspect and should join
                    Ivana Krajcinovic's From Company Doctors to Managed Care: The United Mine
                        Workers'Noble Experiment (1997) and the scholarship of Alan Derickson as essential
                    reading for anyone interested in studies at the intersection of labor history and medical history.
            IRWIN M. MARCUS is professor of history at Indiana University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , Indiana, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . His research focus is on western 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , particularly coal miners, steel workers, and the deindustrialization of the
                region.
         
         
            
               Under Army Orders: The Army National Guard during the Korean War. By William M.
                    Donnelly. (College Station: 
                        Texas
                     A & M University Press, 2001. Pp. xiii, 271. Appendices, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $34.95.)
            The mobilization of the National Guard during the Korean War remains something of an enigma in
                    American military and social history. William M. Donnelly closes a huge gap in National Guard
                    history with this exhaustively researched book. The author uses a wide variety of sources, in
                    particular command reports, correspondence, and newspaper coverage of the units he selected as
                    representatives for each of the guard's three Korean War missions.
            This work contributes to several areas of scholarship. Most significantly, while previous historians
                    have focused on the relatively few units actually sent into combat—and Donnelly does not
                    neglect these units—he also recognizes that "most Army National Guard units
                    mobilized during the Korean War did not deploy overseas—instead they remained in the Zone
                    of the Interior" (the continental U.S., where they served as home guards or training units)
                    or were federalized and sent to 
                        Germany
                     as reinforcements against a possible Soviet attack (p. 147). Donnelly excels in his
                    treatment of these previously neglected units.
            Mobilization problems of the guard and reserve have often been ignored by historians, but not in this
                    case. Donnelly looks closely at administrative, personnel, equipment, and training problems that
                    systematically plagued all federalized National Guard units, regard-  less of the mission to which they were assigned. For example, one of
                    the most pressing issues was created by the guard's recruiting slogan, "GO with
                    those you know." Designed to foster unit cohesion and esprit, the slogan was quickly
                    ignored as units, especially those that were not deployed to 
                        Korea
                    , were often required to levy troops. The author also discusses racial integration in
                    the federalized units, though only as an aside. Donnelly is critical, and with good reason, of the
                    guard's overall mobilization plan and its lack of adequate training facilities for the
                    large number of units that were ordered to active duty.
            Donnelly addresses the social implications of the activation of the guard, both for the individual
                    guardsmen and for their families and hometowns. He explores issues such as the morale of units
                    activated but not sent to 
                        Korea
                     and the real and perceived inequality in the army's treatment of guardsmen
                    (officers in particular) and provides insight into the lives affected by the mobilization, the
                    consequences of which were obviously different for guardsmen than for people already on active duty.
            Readers looking for information on Indiana National Guard units will no& find it here, as
                    the author makes only a few references to postmobilization training at Camp Atterbury for some
                    units. For a look at Indianans' participation in 
                        Korea
                     readers should consult Randy K. Mills and Roxanne Mills's Unexpected Journey (2001), which deals with the Marine Corps Reserve unit from 
                        Evansville
                    .
            Overall, Donnelly accomplishes his goal of treating objectively the entire National Guard
                    mobilization for the Korean War. The publication is timely in view of our current defense posture
                    and heavy reliance on the guard and reserve. While this book fills a void in National Guard history,
                    there remains substantial unexplored territory. Based on this book, one hopes that Donnelly will
                    continue his ventures into this uncharted water.
            CHRIS MORTON, USMC, is a captain and senior instructor in the history department of the 
                        United States
                     Naval Academy, 
                  Annapolis, Maryland
               . His research has focused on the Marine
                    Corps Reserve of the pre-Korean War era and its mobilization for World War I, World War II, and 
                        Korea
                     and on the naval militia of the pre-World War I era.
         
         
            
               Unexpected Journey: A Marine Corps Reserve Company in the Korean War. By Randy
                    K. Mills and Roxanne Mills. (
                        Annapolis
                    , Md.: Naval Institute Press, 2000. Pp. xvi, 271. Illustrations, appendix, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $29.95.)
            Of all the wars ever fought by the 
                        United States
                    , few, if any, rival the Korean War in intensity, brutality, and unpopularity. From 1950
                    to 1953 American and United Nations forces often battled superior numbers of North Korean and
                    Chinese troops in a harsh mountainous terrain marked by extreme weather variations—fiom
                    summers that featured scorching heat and oppressive humidity to winters with  sub-zero temperatures. In a three-year period over 54,000 Americans
                    lost their lives, a figure nearly equal to the total number of American deaths incurred over some
                    ten years of battle in North 
                        Vietnam
                    . Still, the Korean conflict largely remains "the forgotten war."
                    Despite major works by 
                        Clay
                     Blair, Joseph Goulden, John Toland, and others, it continues to rank among the least
                    understood and least remembered chapters in American history.
            Helping to remedy this situation is a superb new study by Randy K Mills and Roxanne Mills, Unexpected Journey: A Marine Cop Reserve Company in the Korean War. It is a
                    chronicle of C Company, Sixteenth Infantry Battalion, of 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana. Indeed, as the authors suggest, the contributions of Marine Corps reservists
                    (originally hailed as "the Minute Men of 1950") were "unique in the
                    annals of American warfare" (p. xiii). Summoned to active duty in the late summer of 1950,
                    often after receiving only weeks of combat instruction (they were promised a training period of six
                    months), these raw recruits received their baptism under fire in the savage fighting in 
                        Korea
                    .
            Because of the downsizing of U.S. armed forces after World War II and the deteriorating American
                    military situation by the autumn of 1950, these young reservists (many of whom were teenagers) were
                    rushed into the front lines. Uprooted from families, wives, and children, they were soon engaged in
                    a bitter, life and death struggle thousands of miles from home, the purpose of which, they believed,
                    was to stop the worldwide spread of Communism. With great skill and a gripping narrative, the
                    authors walk us through a series of ferocious engagements, including Chosin Reservoir, Inchon, and
                    several "hills" that were merely assigned numbers.
            The Millses describe the soldiers' weariness and growing disenchantment with the ensuing
                    bloody stalemate following the massive Chinese intervention of November 1950 and the largest retreat
                    in American military history, to the Thirty-eighth parallel. Throughout the book, but especially in
                    chapter seven, the authors analyze developments on the "home front." The final
                    chapter discusses the experiences of the survivors and their difficulties in adjusting to peacetime
                    life. Like the veterans of the more publicized North 
                        Vietnam
                     conflict, these Korean War veterans underwent nightmarish flashbacks and bouts of
                    depression—and many found solace and healing only decades later through reunions with
                    fellow reservists.
            Culling information from diaries, letters, newspapers, magazines, and from interviews with the
                    participants, the Millses have produced a first-rate monograph that serves as a microcosm of the
                    Korean War. Readers may take issue with a few points, such as the authors' contention that
                    the rapid demobilization after 1945 was a mistake. While it may have been flawed as a foreign policy
                    strategy, as domestic policy, it was surely not a mistake: given the pressures on President Truman
                    to "bring the boys back home," it is difficult to  see how military downsizing could have been denied. Also, the book
                    might have profited from a Mler discussion of the Truman-MacArthur controversy. Surely,
                    MacArthur's proposals for dropping between thirty and fifiy atomic bombs on Chinese cities
                    and for laying down radioactive waste along the Yalu River threatened not only to widen the war but
                    to invite World War III and a nuclear holocaust. Still, Urnpected Journey is an
                    excellent addition to the growing scholarship on the Korean War.
            KARL VALOIS teaches history at the University of 
                        Connecticut
                    , Torrington, and is the author of The Korean Wac Limits of American
                    Power (1997).
         
         
            
               Before the Storm: Barry Goldwater and the Unmaking of the American Consensus. By
                    Rick Perlstein. (
                        New York
                    : Hill and Wang, 2001. Pp. xvi, 671. Illustrations, notes, index. $30.00.)
            In the 1960s the Democratic party, torn asunder by the North 
                        Vietnam
                     War, civil rights, and urban crime, came under ideological assault by the New Left and
                    the New Right. According to journalist Rick Perlstein, 
                        Arizona
                    's Senator Barry Goldwater launched a libertarian, free-market revolution
                    against the "liberal consensus." Before the Storm is a
                    sympathetic account of Goldwater's war against "the liberal consensus"
                    that libertarians and leftists found so distasteful, because it represented the marriage of New Deal
                    social welfare concerns and support for labor unions to the post-World War II effort to contain
                    Soviet expansion.
            Perlstein is an engaging writer. His description of Notre Dame law school dean and conservative
                    activist Clarence Manion is vivid: "His [Manion's] forehead seemed to get bigger
                    each year, as if to make room for yet one more set of facts and figures on the Communist conspiracy,
                    forcing the droopy ears, doughy cheeks, protruding lower lip, and picket-fence teeth to crowd ever
                    more tightly at the bottom of his face" (p. 10). Perlstein's discussion of 
                        Indianapolis
                     publisher Eugene Pulliam, the grandfather of Dan Quayle, is just as fascinating.
            While Perlstein indulges his fondness for old groaners—"Rockefeller funds kept
                    the nation's Negro colleges in the black (p. 54)—his account of the quirks of
                    southern politics is worthy of Wilbur Cash (p. 46). In one of this reviewer's favorite
                    passages, discussing 
                  Orange County, California
               , and the rise of the John Birch Society
                    (established in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1958), Perlstein provides an amazing quote from U.S. Representative James Utt, who
                    "likened the federal government to a ‘child molester who offers candy before his
                    evil act’" (p. 125).
            Perlstein underscores the hypocrisy of southwestern libertarians who decried big government while
                    eagerly accepting military defense contracts and federally funded irrigation and highway
                    construction projects. Tellingly, during the Great Depression 
                        Franklin
                    
                     Roosevelt gave 
                        Arizona
                     $342 million while the state contributed just $16 million in
                    taxes.
            There are a few matters that Perlstein might reconsider. Perl-stein equates the GI Bill of Rights
                    with welfare, forgetting that World War II veterans had performed a service in kind to the nation.
                    Then, paradoxically mirroring the complaints of Rush Limbaugh, Perlstein berates those recipients of
                    the GI Bill who became Republicans, implying that the Democrats had bought their votes and that they
                    should have remained bought.
            Most problematic is Perlstein's treatment of the Cold War, where he places the onus for the
                    conflict on Harry Truman and John F. Kennedy. Perlstein also dismisses fears of domestic Communist
                    subversion as right-wing paranoia. He should have taken seriously the works of John Earl Haynes,
                    Harvey Klehr, Richard Gid Powers, and Ronald Radosh.
            
               Before the Storm is an invaluable book that maps out the New Right's
                    crusade against the New Deal order. When one considers the ferocity of the New Right and New Left
                    cadres, it is little wonder that the order did not hold. In defeat, Goldwater sowed the seeds for
                    Ronald Reagan's presidency, just as George McGovern prepared the way for Bill Clinton.
            KENNETH J. HEINEMAN, professor of history at 
                        Ohio
                     University, 
                        Athens
                    , is the author of four books on twentieth-century American social movements and
                    politics.
         
         
         
            Recent Articles, Books, Pamphlets, Dissertations, and Other Publications in Indiana History
            Compiled by Leigh Darbee
            Editor's Note: This annual list is intended to aid researchers in Indiana history. The Magazine solicits items for inclusion, especially from publications (other than
                    newspapers) not usually reviewed in the IMH. Items to be included in the March
                    2003 issue should be sent before November 1, 2002.
            
               "1900—1999—A Century of 
                            Fulton County
                         in Photos," 
                     
                                Fulton County
                             Images, No. 5 (2000).
               Adams, Bob, "
                            Decatur
                        : Three Time State [Girls'] Champs?" Indiana
                            Basketball History, VIII (Summer 2000).
               Aitken, Kenneth G., "In Search of the American Pioneers of the Last, Best West: An
                        Introduction to Immigration Records of Americans on the Canadian Prairies,
                        1908–1918," The Hoosier Gemalogist, XLI (June 2001).
                        [Focuses on several Hoosier families.]
               Alexander, J. Trent, "Great Migrations: Race and Community in the Southern Exodus,
                        1917–1970" (Ph.D. dissertation, Carnegie Mellon University, 2001).
               Aley, Ginette, "More than Canawlers and Railroad Builders: Rural Irish Immigrants in
                        Indiana and the Old Northwest," Indiana Canals, XII (Fall 2001).
               "All Aboard! Remembering Indiana's Other Grand Stations," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XIII (Summer 2001).
               Alter, Peter T., "The Serbian Great Migration: Serbs in the 
                            Chicago
                         Region, 1880s to 1930s" (Ph.D. dissertation, University of 
                            Arizona
                        , 2000).
               Anderson City Planning Department, Architectural Classification of Anderson,
                            Indiana's Historic Sites and Structures (Anderson: The Department, 1999).
               
                  The Army-Navy Club of 
                                Indianapolis
                            : A Brief History with Reminiscences. Ed. Harley W. Rhodehamel ([
                            Indianapolis
                        : s.n.3, 1998).
               Arnesen, Eric, "The 1890s Crisis in Context: The Pullman Strike, Labor Politics, and
                        the New Liberalism," Journal of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society, XCII (Autumn 1999). [Review essay on The Pullman Strike and the Crisis of the 1890s, ed. Schneirov et
                            al. (1999), and Schneirov, Labor and Urban Politics (1998).]
               Baer, M. Teresa, and Kathleen M. Breen, eds., Finding Indiana Ancestors (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 2000).
               
               —-, "World War I Letters to the Sammy Girls of 
                            Henry County
                        , 1918–1919," The Hoosier Genealogist, XLI
                        (June 2001).
               Baker, Kenneth Gearhart, "‘Oatmeal and Coffee’: Memoirs of a
                        Hoosier Soldier in World War I." Ed. by Robert H. Ferrell; transcribed by Betty Baker
                        Rinker, Indiana Magazine of History, XCVII (March 2001).
               Baker, Ronald L., Homeless, Friendless, and Penniless: The WPA Interviews with
                            Former Slaves Living in Indiana (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2000).
               Balesi, Charles J., "Exploring the Midwest's French Roots," 
                     
                                Illinois
                             Heritage, II (Falwinter 1999).
               —-, The Time of the French in the Heart of North America, 1673–1818 (
                            Chicago
                        : Alliance Franqaise 
                            Chicago
                        , 2000).
               Balough, Linda, and Betty Bartley, A Pictorial History ofHendricks County,
                            Indiana (
                            Virginia
                         Beach, Va.: Donning Co., 1999).
               Barrows, Robert G., Albion Fellows Bacon: Indiana's Municipal
                            Housekeeper (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2000).
               Bassett, Beth, "Augustus Dwight Babcock: The Open Door Museum Brought the World to 
                            Goodland
                        ," The Newcomer, 
                            Newton County
                         Historical Society (Summer 2000).
               —, "A Glimpse of 
                            Newton County
                         Settlements, Towns and Villages," The Newcomer, 
                            Newton County
                         Historical Society (Winter 2001).
               Beatty, John D., "‘All That Is True and Beautiful’: The
                        Flowering of Artistic Expression in Nineteenth-Century 
                            Fort Wayne
                        ," Old Fort News, LXII, No. 2 (1999).
               Beggs, S. R., Pages from the Early History of the West and North-West (
                            Salem
                        , Mass.: Higginson Book Company, [2001?1). [Reprint of 1868 edition.]
               "The ‘Big Four,’" 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Postcard Club (December 2000).
               Bigham, Darrel E., ed., Indiana Territory: A Bicentennial Perspective (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 2001).
               Birzer, Bradley J., "French Imperial Remnants on the Middle Ground: The Strange Case
                        of August de la Balme and Charles Beaubien," Journal of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society, XCIII (Summer 2000).
               Bixby, Randy, "Genealogy Division of the Indiana State Library," The Hoosier Genealogist, XL (December 2000).
               Blanke, David, Sowing the American Dream: How Consumer Culture Took Root in the
                            Rural Midwest (
                            Athens
                        : 
                            Ohio
                         University Press, 2000).
               Blegen, Theodore C., Songs of the Voyageurs (
                            St. Paul
                        : 
                            Minnesota
                         Historical Society Press, 1998). [Compact disk and accompanying booklet.]
               Bodnar, John, Our Towns: Remembering Community in Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 2001).
               
               Bonsall, Thomas E., More Than They Promised: The Studebaker Story (
                            Stanford
                        , Calif.: 
                            Stanford
                         University Press, 2000).
               Boo, Michael, "Timeless: Frank Lloyd Wright in Indiana," Outdoor Indiana, IXVI (July/August 2001).
               Boomhower, Ray E., "‘A Business Without a Boss’: William Powers
                        Hapgood and the 
                            Columbia
                         Conserve Company," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                        History, XIII (Winter 2001).
               —-, "But I Do Clamor": May Wright Sewall, A Life,
                            1844-1920 (Zionsville: Guild Press of Indiana, 2001).
               —-, and Darryl Jones, Destination Indiana: Travels Through Hoosier
                            History (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 2000).
               —-, "The Indiana Medical History Museum," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, XIII (Spring 2001).
               Born, Gerald, "The Diana Hunting Club," The Newcomer, 
                            Newton County
                         Historical Society (Fall 2000).
               —-, "Ledger of the Graves' General Store of 
                            Morocco
                         Reveals Much History," The Newcomer, 
                            Newton County
                         Historical Society (Winter 2000).
               Boukai, Irit Erez, "The 
                            Indianapolis
                         Sephardic Jewish Congregation and Community: An Oral History Account," Indiana Jewish History, No. 34 (February 2001).
               Bowen, Otis R., Doc: Memories from a Life in Public Service (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2000).
               —-, "A Hoosier in 
                            Washington
                        : From Doc: Memories from a Life in Public Service," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, XIII (Winter 2001).
               Brehob, Elizabeth, My Memories ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ?: s.n.], 2000). [Memoirs of 
                            Indianapolis
                         resident from 1910s to 1990s.]
               Bresnahan, Roger J., "The Midwestern Expatriates: Why They Left, What They
                        Remembered," MidAmerica, XXV (1998). [Includes a discussion of
                        Theodore Dreiser.]
               Bruggen, Bill, and R. David Cart, J. F. D. Lanier: America's Forgotten
                            Patriot and Financier (Carmel: Lanier Mansion Foundation, 2000).
               Bundles, A'Lelia, On Her Own Ground: The Life and Times of Madam C. J.
                            Walker (
                            New York
                        : Scribner, 2001).
               Caccamo De Luca, Rita, Back to 
                                Middletown
                            : Three Generations of Sociological Reflections (
                            Stanford
                        , Calif.: 
                            Stanford
                         University Press, 2000).
               
                  
                            Caldwell
                        , Howard, "Tony Hinkle: Coach for All Seasons," Indiana Basketball History, VIII (Summer 2000). [Excerpt from 
                            Caldwell
                        's book of the same title, published 1991.]
               Carlson, Vic, "150 Years of Farming," The Newcomer, 
                            Newton County
                         Historical Society (Spring 2001).
               Carman, Sam, "Charles Deam," Outdoor Indiana, LXVI
                        (January/February 2001).
               
               Cassell, Janie, et al., Ulen Country Club: 75 Years of Golf Gracious Living and
                            Hoosier Hospitality (Carmel: Creative Publishing Concepts, 1999).
               Cayton, Andrew R. L., The American Midwest: Essays in Regional History (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2001).
               —-, "Artery and Border: The Ambiguous Development of the Ohio
                            Valley in the Early Republic," 
                     Ohio
                            Valley History, I (Winter 2001).
               —-, and Frederika J. Teute, eds., Contact Points: American Frontiers
                            from the Mohawk Valley to the 
                                Mississippi
                            
                   (
                            Chapel Hill
                        : University of 
                            North Carolina
                         Press, 1998).
               Chaudemanche, Diane, and Elaine Herold, Andrew Wylie: A Bibliography ([
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University], 2000). [Indiana Heritage Research Grant product.]
               Clanin, Douglas E., "Indiana Korean War Casualties: Hoosier Medal of Honor Recipient,
                        Lieutenant Colonel Don C. Faith Jr.," The Hoosier Genealogist, XL
                        (December 2000).
               Cleaves, Freeman, Old 
                                Tippecanoe
                            : William Henry Harrison and His Time (Newtown, Conn.: American Political
                        Biography Press, 2000). [Reprint of 1939 edition.]
               Cody, Rachel, "Town Crier: Bill Garrett and the Language of Democracy in the Postwar
                        Indiana Press," Black History News & Notes, No. 84 (May
                        2001).
               Cohen, Sylvia Nahmias, "The History of the Etz Chaim Sephardic Congregation and
                        Community of 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana," Indiana Jewish History, No. 34 (February
                        2001).
               
                  Combined 1878 Atlas and 1903 Twentieth Century Atlas of 
                                Clinton County
                            , Indiana (
                            Mt. Vernon
                        : Windmill Publications, 2000). [Reprint, with index.]
               
                  Combined Atlas of 
                                Warren County
                            , Indiana, 1877, 1904, 1923 (
                            Mt. Vernon
                        : Windmill Publications, 2001). [Reprint, with index.]
               
                  Conseco Fieldhouse: The First Year, 1999–2000 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Pacers Sports & Entertainment, 2000).
               Coon, Diane Perrine, ‘1848 
                                St. Paul
                            's Second Baptist Church’: The Chronicles of Chapman Harris,
                            a Free Black Leader of the Underground Railroad and Pastor of the Second Baptist Church at 
                                Madison
                            , Indiana ([s.l.: s.n.], 1999). [Indiana Heritage Research Grant product.]
               —-, Southeastern Indiana's Underground Railroad Routes and
                            Operations (
                            Louisville
                        , Ky.: s.n., 2001).
               "Covered Bridges," 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Postcard Club (December 1999).
               Cross, Robert, et al., Elkinsville, Indiana: "The Town That
                            Was" (
                            Spencer
                        : The Authors, 2000).
               
                  Crossroads of America: A Portrait of Historic South Central Indiana
                        (Marceline, Mo.: D-Books Publishing, 2000).
               Cunningham, Gerald L., Having My Say: Reflections on Justice Ministries,
                            1969–1999 ([
                            Indianapolis
                        : s.n., 2000?]).
               
               Darbee, Jeffrey T., "Socialist from the Heartland: Eugene V. Debs and the Pullman
                        Strike," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XIII (Summer,
                        2001).
               Darbee, Leigh, "Fire Insurance Maps," The Hoosier
                        Genealogist, XLI (March 2001).
               —-, "Gazetteers," The Hoosier Genealogist, XLI
                        (June 2001).
               —-, A Guide to Early Imprints at the Indiana Historical Society,
                            1619–1840 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 2001).
               —-, "
                            Madison
                        's Engineering Landmark," Traces of Indiana and
                            Midwestern History, XIII (Summer, 2001).
               —-, "Railroad Maps: Distinguishing the Distorted from the
                        Trustworthy," The Hoosier Genealogist, XLI (September 2001).
               —-, "The Township and Range Survey System," The
                            Hoosier Genealogist, XL (December 2000).
               Davis, Lorraine H., and George R. Mather, "Emerine Jane Holman 
                            Hamilton
                        ," Old Fort News, LXIII, No. 1 (2000).
               Davis, Marsh, "Indiana Houses Becomes Preservation
                        Classic," Indiana Preservationist, No. 6 (NovemberDecember 2000).
                        [Wilbur D. Peat's Indiana Houses of the Nineteenth Century (1962).]
               Dirks, Barbara J., "‘Doing It Together’: The Sperry Family of 
                            Brown County
                        , Indiana," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History,
                        XIII (Fall 2001).
               Dodson, Henry Jackson, The Civil War Diaries of Henry Jackson Dodson, 40th
                            Indiana Volunteer Infantry Regiment. Transcribed by Sue E. Bowen ([Crystal Lake, Ill.?:
                        Bowen], 1999).
               Dorrel, Ruth, Pioneer Ancestors of Members of the Society of Indiana Pioneers,
                            1983–1999 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 2001).
               Drenovsky, Rachael L., "Humanity's Bonfire: William B. Fletcher, M. D.,
                        1837–1907," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XIII
                        (Spring 2001).
               —-, "The Issue Now Is Open Occupancy: The Struggle for Fair Housing in 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1890–1968" (M.A. thesis, Indiana University at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 2001).
               Drudge, Casey, "Robison Park A Fresh Look at 
                            Fort Wayne
                        's Favorite Playground from the Past," Old Fort
                        News, LXIII, No. 2 (2000).
               DuBois, William, Jr., "The Lineage of Otis R. Bowen: A Hoosier Governor's 
                            Fulton County
                         Roots," The Hoosier Genealogist, XLI (September 2001).
               Due, Tananarive, The Black Rose (
                            New York
                        : Ballantine Books, 2000). [Madam C. J. Walker.]
               Dunaway, Donald L., The Photography of Ben Winans of Brookuille, Indiana,
                            1902–1926 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 2001).
               "The Early Mennonite Congregation of Berne, 
                            Adams County
                        , Indiana, 1852-1938," The Hoosier Genealogist, XLI (June
                        2001).
               
               Eccles, W. J., The French in North America, 1500–1783. Rev. ed.
                        (East Lansing: 
                            Michigan
                         State University Press, 1998).
               Enochs, Richard A., "Side Steps to Compromise: Expansion and the Issue of Slavery in
                        the Old Northwest," Black History News & Notes, No. 82
                        (November 2000).
               Etcheson, Nicole, "‘As my father's child has’: The
                        Political Culture of the Ohio Valley in the Nineteenth Century,"
                            
                     Ohio Valley History, I (Winter 2001).
               Evans, Michael Robert, "The Shawnee Nation, United Remnant Band, and the Dynamics of
                        Authenticity," Midwestern Folklore, XXVI (Spring 2000).
               Farag, Henry, "The Signal: A Doo-wop Rhapsody," Steel
                        Shavings, XXXII (2001).
               Fisher, Jerry M., "Carl G. Fisher—Lincoln Highway Founder," Lincoln Highway Forum, VIII (Winter/Spring 2001).
               "Fort Benjamin Harrison," 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Postcard Club (September 1999).
               Foster, Mark S., Castles in the Sand: The Life and Times of Carl Graham
                        Fisher (
                            Gainesville
                        : University Press of 
                            Florida
                        , 2000.)
               Fox, Paul G., 
                     
                                Decatur
                             Township Personalities … Past and Present (
                            Indianapolis
                        : s.n.,[1999?]).
               Frasch, Wade, "The Purdue Railroad Connection," National
                            Railway Bulletin, LXVI, No. 1 (2001).
               Friedman, Bernard, "The Map That Won the Old Northwest," Traces
                            of Indiana and Midwestern History, XIII (Spring 2001).
               Gallati, Barbara Dayer, William Merritt Chase: Modern American Landscapes,
                            1886–1890 (
                            Brooklyn
                        , N.Y.: 
                            Brooklyn
                         Museum of Art, 2000).
               Gathorne-Hardy, Jonathan, Sex the Measure of All Things: A Life of Alfied C.
                            Kinsey (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2000).
               Geelhoed, E. Bruce, Boyce Forms Systems, Komputrol: A Centennial History,
                            1899–1999 ([
                            Muncie
                        : Boyce Forms Systems], 1999).
               —-, The Rotary Club of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1913–1998: A Club, a Community, and a Century (Carmel Guild
                        Press of Indiana, 2000).
               Gehring, Wes D., Seeing Red: The Skelton in Hollywood's Closet. An
                            Analytical Biography (Davenport, Ia.: Robin Vincent Publishing, 2001).
               "The Germans in Indiana: Glimpses at Hoosier German History," Indiana German
                        Heritage Society Newsletter, XVII (Spring 2001).
               [Gibbs, Wilma L.], "Dear Sergeant Teacher: World War I Letters to Irven
                        Armstrong," Black History News & Notes, No. 85 (August
                        2001).
               —-, "Here Come the Generals: General Harry W. Brooks, Jr., Papers
                        Donated," Black History News & Notes, No. 84 (May 2001).
               
               —-, "Racing into History," Black History News
                            & Notes, No. 82 (November 2000). [Cyclist Major Taylor.]
               —-, "William M. S. Myers Papers Donated," Black
                            History News & Notes, No. 83 (February 2001).
               Gilbertson, Laurann, "Using Clothing Styles to Date Photographs of Women,"
                            The Hoosier Genealogist, XLI (March 2001).
               Gjerde, Jon, The Minds of the West: Ethnocultural Evolution in the Rural Middle
                            West, 1830–1917 (
                            Chapel Hill
                        : University of 
                            North Carolina
                         Press, 1997).
               Goodall, Hurley C., Voices from the Past: A Collection of References to the
                            African American Community in the State of Indiana, 2 vols. ([
                            Muncie
                        : H. Goodall, 20001). [Indiana Heritage Research Grant product.]
               Glazier, Jack, "‘Transplanted from Kiev to Hoosierdom’: How the
                        Industrial Removal Office Directed Jewish Immigrants to 
                            Terre Haute
                        ," Indiana Magazine of History, XCVII (March 2001).
               Glen, John M., et al., "Indiana Archives: Oral History
                        Collections," Indiana Magazine of History, XCVII (September 2001).
               Graham, Frederick H., A Hundred Year Succession of Indiana Architects and Their
                            Work, 1888–1988. 2nd rev. ed. (
                            Muncie
                        : The Author], 2000).
               Graham, William, Window to a Changed World: The Personal Memoirs of William
                            Graham. Ed. Donald L. Parman (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 1998).
               Greasley, Philip A., ed., Dictionary of Midwestern Literature, Vol. I: The Authors (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2001).
               Grizzle, Charles R., Hollywood Hoosier: An Indiana Kid and His Disney Daze
                        (Spokane, Wash.: Plateau Publications, 1999).
               Hahn, Thomas S., Canal Terminology of the 
                                United States
                            
                   (Morgantown, W.V.: Institute for the History of Technology and Industrial
                        Archaeology, 1999).
               Hall, Patricia, The Real-for-Sure Story of Raggedy Ann (Gretna, La.: Pelican
                        Publishing, 2001).
               Harmon, Charles, Memoirs of Charles Harmon, Civil War Veteran, 2 vols.
                        ([s.l.: s.n., 2001?]). [Facsimile. Limited distribution; reference copy located at the Indiana
                        Historical Society.]
               Harstad, Peter T., and M. Teresa Baer, "Family Stories from an 
                            Iowa
                         Farm Illuminate the Legacy of Early Scandinavian Hoosiers," The Hoosier Genealogist, XL (December 2000).
               Hartsock, Charles, "The Town of 
                            Quincy
                        ," 
                     
                                Owen County
                             History & Genealogy, X (Summer 2001 and Fall 2001). [Originally
                        compiled in 1937.]
               
                  Hayes Regional Arboretum: Celebrating 40 Years (
                            Richmond
                        : Stanley W. Hayes Research Foundation, 1999).
               Helm, Thomas B., History ofWabash County, Indiana (
                            Mt. Vernon
                        : Windmill Publications, 2001). [Reprint of 1884 edition, with index.]
               
               Hendrickson, Thomas A., "Sheltering a Famous Fugitive Slave," Black History News & Notes, No. 85 (August 2001) and No. 86 (November
                        2001).
               
                  Herman B Wells: The Spirit of Indiana ([
                            Bloomington
                        : s.n.1, 2000). [CD-ROM]
               Hetherington, James R., "‘In the 
                            Van
                         of Progress’: The Building of 
                            Indianapolis
                        's Union Station," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, XIII (Summer 2001).
               Hilgeman, Sherri L., Pottery and Chronology at Angel (
                            Tuscaloosa
                        : University of 
                            Alabama
                         Press, 2000). [Angel Mounds State Historic Site.]
               "The History of Lake Village," The Newcomer, 
                            Newton County
                         Historical Society (Summer 2001).
               "History of the Thirty-Second Indiana Volunteer Infantry Regiment," Indiana
                        German Heritage Society Newsletter, XVI (Spring 2000).
               Hokanson, Drake, The Lincoln Highway: Main Street Across America (
                            Iowa
                         City: University of 
                            Iowa
                         Press, 1999). [Tenth Anniversary Edition.]
               "Hoosier Citizens Speak: From Our Towns: Remembering Community in
                            Indiana," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XIII (Spring 2001).
               Horvath, Dennis E., Indiana—What Might Have Been? Indiana Serves As a
                            Model for Our Automotive Industry and Heritage (
                            Indianapolis
                        : s.n., 2000).
               Hough, Andrea Bean, "Filling In the Gaps: Using the Collections of the Indiana
                        Division, Indiana State Library," The Hoosier Genealogist, XLI (March
                        2001).
               Hughes, Frances E., "Riding the Rails in 
                            Terre Haute
                        ," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XIII (Summer
                        2001).
               Hurt, R. Douglas, "A Guide to Reading the Social History of the Ohio
                        Valley," 
                     Ohio Valley History, I
                        (Spring 2001).
               
                  An Index to Naturalization Records in Pre-1907 Order Books of Indiana County
                            Courts (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 2001). [Reissue.]
               
                  Indiana's State House (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Bureau, 2000).
               Ivey, Bill, "Folklore, Art, and Indiana," Journal of Folklore
                            Research, XXXVII (January-April 2000).
               Jacobs, Andy, Jr., Slander and Sweet Judgment: The Memoir of an Indiana
                            Congressman (Zionsville: Guild Press of Indiana, 2000).
               
                  James Whitcomb Riley: Commemorating the Poetry and Legacy of James Whitcomb Riley
                            on His 150th Birthday ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ]: James Whitcomb Riley Sesquicentennial Committee, 1999).
               Jenkins, J. Brian, Citizen Daniel (1775–1835) and the Call of America:
                            Early Correspondence of the Constables of Horley (
                            Hartford
                        , Conn.: Aardvark Editorial Services, 2000). Daniel Constable and his brother spent
                        time in Indiana.]
               
               Johnson, Bruce L., "Standing Lincoln," Traces of Indiana and
                            Midwestern History, XIII (Winter 2001). [A history and description of the Indiana
                        Historical Society's copy of Augustus Saint-Gaudens' well-known statue.]
               Kaser, David, Just Lucky, I Guess: My Adventurous Life As a Hoosier
                        Librarian (
                            New York
                         Vantage Press, 2000).
               Keller, Peggy, et al., Monterey, Indiana, Two Thousand: Celebrating 151 Years of
                            Memories (Monterey: Monterey Two Thousand Committee, 2000).
               Kersten, Andrew E., Race, Jobs and the War: The FEPC in the Midwest,
                            1941–46 (
                            Urbana
                        : University of 
                            Illinois
                         Press, 2000). [Fair Employment Practices Commission.]
               Kimmel, Haven, A Girl Named Zippy: Growing Up Small in Mooreland, Indiana (
                            New York
                        : Doubleday, 2001).
               King, Lucy Jane, "The Seven Steeples: Anna Agnew at the Indiana Hospital for the
                        Insane," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XIII (Spring
                        2001).
               Klingelhoffer, Kit, et al., For the Glory of Old Indiana University (
                            Champaign
                        , Ill.: Sagamore Publishing, Inc., 2001). [sports history]
               Koenker, Jeffrey, "Early-Twentieth-Century Postcards from 
                            Delaware County
                        ," The Hoosier Genealogist, XLI (September 2001).
               Krapf, Norbert, "The Parish Picnic," Traces of Indiana and
                            Midwestern History, XIII (Spring 2001).
               Krauskopf, Frances, ed. and trans., Ouiatanon Documents (West 
                            Lafayette
                        : Chien Noir Trading Company, 2000). [Reprint edition.]
               Kriebel, Robert C., Meet Jim Riley (
                            Lafayette
                        : 
                            Tippecanoe County
                         Historical Association, 2001).
               Landis, Lincoln, ed., Echoes of Politics and Patriotism: Whirlwind Congressman,
                            Charles B. Landis (Locust Grove, Va.: Lincoln Landis, 2000).
               Lawrence, Dale, Hoosier Hysteria Road Book: A Guide to the Byways of Indiana High
                            School Basketball (
                            South Bend
                        , Ind.: Diamond Communications, 2001).
               Layton-Belcher, Ellen, Brushy Fork Baptist Church: A Church Book of Meeting
                            Minutes for the First 100 Years ([Pleasant?: s.n.1, 2000).
               
                  Leroy Trobaugh: The Paintings of a Railroad Worker (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana State Museum, 2001).
               "Letters from 
                            Henry County
                        ," 
                     
                                Henry County
                             Historicalog, XXVIII (Fall 2000).
               
                  Lincoln Highway Driving Guide (
                            Greensburg
                        , Penn.: Lincoln Highway Heritage Corridor, [2001?]).
               Listerman, Randall W., FCN Bank, 1901–2001: One Hundred Years, Our
                            History and Our Heritage ([
                            Brookville
                        ]: FCN Banc Corp, 2001).
               
               Logan, George M., The Indiana University School of Music: A History (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2000).
               [Lowe, John, Civil War diary extracts], 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XXXVII (June 1999 and September
                        1999).
               Lugar, Richard G., "Admiral Raymond Spruance," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, XIII (Fall 2001).
               
                  
                            Madison
                        , James H., "An Indiana Lynching and Stories of Race," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XIII (Fall 2001).
               —-, A Lynching in the Heartland: Race and Memory in America (
                            New York
                        : Palgrave, 2001).
               Mahoney, Timothy R., Provincial Lives: Middle-Class Experience in the Antebellum
                            Middle West (
                            New York
                        : 
                            Cambridge
                         University Press, 1999).
               Mansbridge, 
                            Georgia
                        , Bruce Rogers, American Typographer (
                            New York
                        : The Typophiles, 1997). [Rogers was born in 
                            Lafayette
                        , began his career in 
                            Indianapolis
                        .]
               Marlette, Jerry, "Trials and Tribulations: The Interurban in Indiana," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XIII (Summer 2001).
               Martin, Fern Honeywell, and Paula Alexander Woods, The Best of 
                                Lafayette
                            
                   (
                            St. Louis
                        : G. Bradley Publishing, 2000).
               Martin, Martha, "Harry Martin—Auto Racing Pioneer Killed in
                        1913," 
                     
                                Fulton County
                             Images, No. 5 (2000). [First person to be killed at the 
                            Indianapolis
                         Motor Speedway.]
               Masing, Milton A., 
                     
                                Dearborn County
                            , Indiana, in Vintage Postcards (
                            Charleston
                        , S.C.: Arcadia, 1999).
               —-, and Jeffrey Koenker, 
                     
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana, in Vintage Postcards (
                            Charleston
                        , S.C.: Arcadia, 1999).
               Massmann, Priscilla G., Planting the Lincoln Highway: America's First
                            Coast to Coast Road (
                            New Britain
                        , Conn.: Massmann, 1997. [Miniature book.]
               Mather, George R., The Best of 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                   (
                            St. Louis
                        : G. Bradley Publishing, 2000).
               —-, "Blanche Stuart Scott: The First American Woman to Fly an Airplane
                        Made History in 
                            Fort Wayne
                        ," Old Fort News, LXII, No. 1 (1999).
               
                  Mayor A. Martin Katz: Photographs and Local News Stories from the Katz Mayoral
                            Years in Gary, Indiana (1963–67) ([Gary?: s.n.], 2000). [CD-ROM. Limited
                        distribution; reference copy located at the Indiana Historical Society.]
               McCarthy, Laurette E., Rediscovering Roots: 
                                Terre Haute
                             Artists in the Swope Collection, 4 vols. (
                            Terre Haute
                        : Sheldon Swope Art Museum, [1998?]-1999). [Indiana Heritage Research Grant
                        product.]
               McCreary, Donna D., Lincoln's Table: Victorian Recipes from 
                                Kentucky
                            , Indiana, and 
                                Illinois
                             to the White House (Zionsville: Guild Press of Indiana, 2000).
               
               McDowell, James L., "Indiana's Venerable Constitution: 150 Years Old and
                        Counting," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XIII (Fall
                        2001).
               McGriff, E. Carver, Amazing Grace: A History of Indiana Methodism,
                            1801–2001 (
                            Franklin
                        , Tenn.: 
                            Providence
                         House Publishers, 2001).
               McMullen, Judith Q., "African-American Pioneers and Their Descendants in 
                            Harrison County
                        ," The Hoosier Genealogist, XLI (September 2001).
               Meuter, Maria Kitty, The Long Rifle, the Bow and the Calumet: The Story of
                            General Samuel Wells, General in the 
                                Kentucky
                             Militia, and His Brother Captain William Wells, Hero at the Massacre at Fort 
                                Dearborn
                            , 1760–1830 ([
                            Louisville
                        , Ky.?: McClanahan Publishing House, 2000).
               
                  Milestones 2000: A Twentieth Century Retrospective ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ]: 
                            Indianapolis
                         Business Journal, 1999).
               Miller, Dodie Marie, African Americans in 
                                Fort Wayne
                            : The First 200 Years (
                            Charleston
                        , S.C.: Arcadia, 2000).
               Mills, Andrew M., "‘Probably a Thousand Cats Are Using Their
                        Thumbs’: A Brief Biographical Sketch of Wes 
                            Montgomery
                        ," Black History News & Notes, No. 86
                        (November 2001).
               Mills, Howard J., Jr., A Brief Visual History ofMaplehurst Farms ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ?: s.n.], 1999).
               Mills, Randy, Christ Tasted Death for Every Man: The Story of America's
                            Frontier General Baptists (Poplar Bluff, Mo.: Stinson Press, 2000).
               "Mint Farms in 
                            Whitley County
                        ," 
                     
                                Whitley County
                             Historical Society Bulletin, XXXVII (December 1999). [Reprint of a 1960
                        story from the 
                            Columbia City
                        
                        Post.]
               
               Morebeck, Nancy Justus, Locating Union & Confederate Records: A Guide
                            to the Most Commonly Used Civil War Records of the National Archives and Family History
                            Library (North Salt Lake, 
                            Utah
                        : HeritageQuest, 2001).
               Mould, Tom, "‘Not Everybody can be a Ginseng Hunter; You've got
                        to have a GiR’: Ginseng Hunting in Southern Indiana," Midwestern Folklore, XXV (Fall 1999).
               Murphy, Lucy Eldersveld, and Wendy Hamand Venet, Midwestern Women: Work,
                            Community, and Leadership at the Crossroads (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 1997).
               Murray, William, Janet, My Mother, and Me: A Memoir of Growing Up with Janet
                            Flanner and Natalia Danesi Murray (
                            New York
                        : Simon & Schuster, 2000).
               Nellis, Caroline, "The Greatest Shows on Earth: Peru's Circus
                        Heritage," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XIII (Winter
                        2001).
               Neville, Susan, and Tyagan Miller, Twilight in Arcadia: Tobacco Farming in
                            Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 2000).
               
               Newcomb, Richard F., Abandon Ship! The Saga of the U.S.S.
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        , the Navy's Greatest Sea Disaster (
                            New York
                        : HarperCollins, 2001).
               Noe, 
                            Randolph
                        , The Shawnee Indians: An Annotated Bibliography (
                            Lanham
                        , Md.: Scarecrow Press, 2001).
               Nolan, Alan T. "Rally, Once Again!": Selected Civil War
                            Writings of Alan T. Nolan (
                     Madison,
                                Wisc.
                  : 
                            Madison
                         House, 2000).
               O'Brien, Michael, Hesburgh: A Biography (
                            Washington
                        , D.C.: Catholic University of America Press, 1998).
               
                  Painting Indiana: Portraits of Indiana's 92 Counties (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 2000).
               Peake, Michael A., Baptism of Fire: Rowlett's Station, 1861:
                            Indiana's German Sons, a History of the 1st German, 32nd Regiment Indiana Volunteer
                            Infantry. (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Max Kade German-American Center Indiana University-Purdue University 
                            Indianapolis
                         and Indiana German Heritage Society, Inc., 1999).
               —-, "Civil War Monument for Indiana German Regiment at Cave Hill National
                        Cemetery," The Hoosier Genealogist, XL (December 2000).
               Perkins, V. F., The Magnificent Ambersons (
                            London
                        : BFI, 1999). [An analysis of Orson Welled film version of the novel.]
               Perry, Rachel Berenson, "Painting Over Profit: The Career of Delphi's Leroy
                        Trobaugh," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XIII (Winter
                        2001).
               Perry, Rosemary, Furrows and Hedgerows: My Reflections of Farm, Food and
                        Family (
                            Lafayette
                        : Thyme with Rosemary Books, 2000).
               Peters, Pamela R., A History of the Enslaved Fugitive and the Underground
                            Railroad As It Relates to 
                        New Albany,
                                    Floyd County
                     , Indiana (New 
                            Albany
                        : The Author, 1999). [Indiana Heritage Research Grant product.]
               Petersen, Eileen Waltz Halterman, "Richland Township Stores &
                        Lodges," 
                     
                                Fulton County
                             Images, No. 5 (2000).
               Phillips, Clifion J., "Joseph Tingley: Professor of Natural Science," DePauw
                        University Archives and Special Collections Newsletter (No. 16, October 2001). Professor at
                        Indiana Asbury University]
               "Play Ball," 
                     
                                Marshall County
                             Historical Society Quarterly, XXX (Summer 2001).
               Polston, Steve, "Indiana's Initial [Survey] Point," Outdoor Indiana, LXVI (March/April 2001).
               Pontzius, Jon, "The Twelve 
                            Columbia City
                         High School State Champion Debate Teams," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XXXIX (September 2001).
               Porter, RUSS, North Shore, South Shore (Forest Park, Ill.: Heimburger House,
                        1999. [Interurban lines.]
               Posey, John Thornton, "Rascality Revisited: In Defense of General James
                        Wilkinson," Filson Club History Quarterly, LXXIV (Fall 2000).
               
               Rafert, Stewart, "Miami Indians and the Peru Circuses," Traces
                            of Indiana and Midwestern History, XIII (Winter 2001).
               Rarick, Ronald D., "A 
                            Michigan
                         Architect in Indiana: Elijah E. Myers and the Business of Architecture in the
                        Gilded Age," 
                     
                                Michigan
                             Historical Review, XXVI (Fall 2000).
               Ratcliff, Richard Pickering, 
                     
                                Henry County
                             at the Millennium: A Reference Book of History, Firsts, Trivia, Lists and
                            Interesting Facts (
                            New Castle
                        : 
                            Henry County
                         Historical Society, 1999).
               Rawls, George, Papa, I Want to Be a Surgeon (Carmel: Guild Press of Indiana,
                        1999).
               Raymond, Charles de, On the Eve of the Conquest: The Chevalier de
                            Raymond's Critique of New 
                                France
                             in 1754. Ed. Joseph L. Peyser (East Lansing: 
                            Michigan
                         State University Press, 1997).
               Reek, Ada, et al., Lutheran High School: 25 Years in God's Grace,
                            1976-2000 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : The School, [2000?]).
               Regan-Dinius, Jeannie, "Preserving the Past for the Future: Indiana's
                        Statewide Cemetery Registry," The Hoosier Genealogist, XLI (June
                        2001).
               "Register of African Americans in 
                            Orange County
                        , 1853–1861," The Hoosier Genealogist, XLI
                        (March 2001).
               Reichmann, Ruth, "State Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument 100 Years
                        Old," Indiana German Heritage Society Newsletter, XVII (Summer 2001).
               Remley, Ambrose, Battles, Skirmishes, Events and Scenes: The Letters and
                            Memorandum of Ambrose Remley. Ed. Dale E. Linvill (
                            Crawfordsville
                        : 
                            Montgomery County
                         Historical Society, 1997).
               "Repeat Customers," a series of articles on Indiana retail buildings, Indiana Preservationist, No. 6 (November/December 1999).
               "Roadside Indiana," 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Postcard Club (March 2000).
               Robertson, Henry O., "Baynard Rush Hall and The New Purchase,"
                            Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XIII (Spring 2001).
               Robison, Brenda R., "Memories of Schang's Drive-In, [
                            Columbia City
                        ]," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XXXVII (September 1999).
               Rodgers, Thomas E., "Hoosier Women and the Civil War Home Front," Indiana Magazine of History, XCVII (June 2001).
               Roettger, Alice A., and Joseph F. Thompson, Blessings on Thee, Old 
                                St. Paul
                            's (Carmel: Guild Press of Indiana, 2000).
               Rossok, Kaylene Marie, The History of the Oral Health Research Institute ([
                            Indianapolis
                        : The Institute, IUPUII, 2000). [Indiana Heritage Research Grant product.]
               Saldibar, Joseph P., III, "Historic Iron Bridges in Indiana," Indiana History Bulletin, LXX (June 1999).
               Sample, Bradford, "A Truly Midwestern City: 
                            Indianapolis
                         on the Eve of the Great Depression," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XCVII (June 2001).
               
               "Samuel Richards: From a Boy Painter of 
                            Spencer
                         to an Artist of the First Rank," 
                     
                                Owen County
                             History & Genealogy, M (Spring 2000).
               Savarino, Malia, "The Underground Railroad Indiana Focuses on Vital
                        History," Outdoor Indiana, LXV (November/December 2000).
               Schmidt, Carolyn I., Celebrating Canal Communities. 
                                Wabash
                             & Erie Canal: Carroll/
                                Tippecanoe
                             I 
                                Fountain
                             Counties (
                            Fort Wayne
                        : Canal Society of Indiana, 1999).
               —-, The Final Link. 
                                Wabash
                             & Erie Canal: Gibson l 
                                Pike
                             l 
                                Daviess
                             I 
                                Greene
                             Counties (
                            Fort Wayne
                        : Canal Society of Indiana, 1998).
               —-, Tracking the Central: Central Canal in 
                                Delaware
                            , Hamilton, 
                                Madison
                             and 
                                Marion
                             Counties (
                            Fort Wayne
                        : Canal Society of Indiana, 1999).
               Seeman, Erik R., "Reading Indians' Deathbed Scenes: Ethnohistor-ical and
                        Representational Approaches," Journal of American History, LXXXVIII
                        (June 2001). [Deals in part with New 
                            France
                        .]
               Sehlinger, Peter J., and Holman 
                            Hamilton
                        , Spokesman for Democracy: Claude G. Bowers, 1878–1958 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 2000).
               Seigel, Peggy, "Eliza George, 
                            Fort Wayne
                        's Civil War Heroine: Public Praise and Personal Letters," Old Fort News, LXII, No. 1 (1999).
               —-, "The 
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                        Standard: A Reform Newspaper in the 1850s Storm," Indiana Magazine of History, XCVII (September 2001).
               "Shards & Midden Heaps: Life in the Calumet Region in the 1990s. Social
                        Change and Continuity in Northwest Indiana Near the End of the Twentieth Century," Steel Shavings, XXXI (2001).
               Simons, Richard S., and Francis H. Parker, "On Track: The Beginning of the Railroad
                        in Indiana. From Railroads of Indiana," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, XIII (Summer 2001).
               Skvarenina, Joseph L., Also Great: Stories of the Famous and Not-So-Famous of 
                                Hancock County
                            
                   (
                            Greenfield
                        : 
                            Mitchell
                        -Fleming Printing, 2000).
               Slater-Putt, Dawne, Pre-1882 Indiana Births from Secondary Sources (
                            Fort Wayne
                        : Heritage Pathways, 1999). [Two volumes have appeared to date.]
               Smith, Carson C., The History of the Scottish Society of 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                   (
                            Indianapolis
                        : [The Society], 2001).
               Smith, David L., "Memories from the Heart: The Film Career of Monte Blue,"
                            Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, XIII (Fall 2001).
               Smith, Sharon Lee, "Paving the Way: Black 
                            Indianapolis
                         and Ruth McArthur's Conservatory of Music, 1946–1963"
                        (M.A. thesis, University of 
                            Delaware
                        , 2000).
               
               —-, and Stephen J. Fletcher, Life in a Three-Ring Circus (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 2001).
               Stanton, Doug, In Harm's Way: The Sinking of the U.S.S.
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        and the Extraordinary Story of Its Survivors (
                            New York
                        : Henry Holt, 2001).
               
                  The Star Press: Proudly Serving Readers for 100 Years. Ed.
                        Donna K. Penticuff(
                            Muncie
                        : The Star Press, 1999).
               Stevenson, Barbara J., An Oral History of African Americans in 
                                Grant County
                            
                   (
                            Charleston
                        , S.C.: Arcadia, 2000).
               Stodola, Barbara, "Frank Lloyd Wright in Indiana," Hoosierisms
                            Quarterly, V (Autumn 2000).
               
                  Stories and Traditions of Culver and Lake Maxinkuckee (Culver: [s.n.],
                        1997). [CD-ROM]
               Stradling, David, "Cities of the [
                            Ohio
                        ] Valley," 
                     Ohio Valley History, I
                        (Winter 2001).
               Straw, John B., Dick 
                                Greene
                            's Neighborhood, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana (
                            St. Louis
                        : G. Bradley Publishing, 2000).
               Swain, Ellen D., "From Benevolence to Reform: The Expanding Career of Mrs. Rhoda M.
                        Coffin," Indiana Magazine of History, XCVII (September 2001).
               Taylor, Jay A., "The Eel River of Northern Indiana,"
                            Newsletter of the North 
                                Manchester
                             Historical Society, XVIII (February 2001).
               Taylor, Robert M., Jr., ed., The State of Indiana History 2000 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 2001).
               Templeton, Lois Main, Finding Your Way: The Studio Book (Camel: Guild Press
                        of Indiana, 2000).
               Terpstra, Laverne, et al., The Settling of the Grand Marsh of the Kankakee River:
                            Oral History Interviews ([DeMotte?]: RUSS' Print Shop, [1997?]).
               Terry, Clinton W., "‘Let Commerce Follow the Flag’: Trade and
                        Loyalty to the Union in the Ohio Valley," 
                     Ohio Valley History, I (Spring 2001).
               Theofanis, George, "Basketball: Life's Game in Transition," Indiana Basketball History, VIII (Summer 2000).
               Thornbrough, Emma Lou, Indiana Blacks in the Twentieth Century. Ed. and with
                        a final chapter by Lana Ruegamer (Bloom-ington: Indiana University Press, 2000).
               ["Threshing"], 
                     
                                Marshall County
                             Historical Society Quarterly, XXX (Fall 2001).
               "The Tiger Dynasty's Last Hurrah, 1949," Indiana
                            Basketball History, VIII (Summer 2000).
               Trafny, John C., The Polish Community of Gary (
                            Chicago
                        : Arcadia Publishing, 2001).
               Underhill, Joshua Whittington, Helena to Vicksburg: A Civil War Odyssey. The
                            Personal Diary of Joshua Whittington Underhill, Surgeon, 46th Regiment, Indiana Volunteer
                            Infantry. Ed. Christopher Morss (Lincoln Center, Mass.: Heritage House Publishers,
                        2000).
               
               Vacha, John E., "Treason in Canton! The Trial of Eugene Debs," Timeline, XVIII (NovemberDecember 2001).
               Varvel, Gary, Varvelous (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Western Publishing, 2000). [Cartoons by the political cartoonist for the 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Star.]
               
               Vincent, Stephen A., Southern Seed, Northern Soil: African-American Farm
                            Communities in the Midwest, 1765-1900 (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 1999).
               Wagner, Phil, "Buffalo Trace," Outdoor Indiana, LXV
                        (NovemberDecember 2000).
               Walker, Janet R., Wonder Workers on the 
                                Wabash
                            
                   (
                            New Harmony
                        : Historic 
                            New Harmony
                        , 1999).
               
                  A Walking Tour of the Indiana Memorial Union Art Collection (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University, 1998).
               Wallis, Richard T., The 
                                Pennsylvania
                             Railroad At Bay: William Riley McKeen and the 
                                Terre Haute
                             & 
                                Indianapolis
                             Railroad (Bloom-ington: Indiana University Press, 2001).
               
                  
                            Warren
                        , Stanley, "Senator Robert L. Brokenburr: He Lived to Serve," Black History News & Notes, No. 83 (February 2001).
               Watkins, Keith, Christian Theological Seminary, 
                                Indianapolis
                            : A History of Education for Ministry (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Guild Press, 2001).
               Weber, Francis Joseph, Growing Up in Valley Mills: A Personal Memoir of Francis
                            Joseph Weber ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ?: s.n.1, 1998).
               —-, Memories of an Old Country Priest (Mission Hills, Calif.: St.
                        Francis Historical Society, 2000).
               Weintraut, Linda, "‘The Community Spirit’: Conservatism in 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1900–1977" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University, 2001).
               
                  
                     
                                Wells County
                             Towns and Townships: A Pictorial History (
                            Virginia
                         Beach, Va.: Donning Company, 1999).
               Wert, Jeffry D., A Brotherhood of Valor: The Common Soldiers of the Stonewall
                            Brigade, C.S.A., and the Iron Brigade, U.S.A. (
                            New York
                        : Simon & Schuster, 1999).
               Wheeler, Kenneth H., The Antebellum College in the Old Northwest: Higher
                            Education and the Defining of the Midwest (
                            Columbus
                        : The 
                            Ohio
                         State University Press, 1999).
               White, Allan D., "Stephen Kaufman, 1921–1963: Artist, Scientist and
                        Friend," Newsletter of the North 
                                Manchester
                             Historical Society, XVI (November 1999).
               Willard, Shirley, Trail of Death Commemorative Caravan 1998 (
                            Rochester
                        : 
                            Fulton County
                         Historical Society, [1999?1).
               [Williams, Dee], "Forty Years in a Striped Shirt," Indiana
                            Basketball History, VIII (Winter 2000).
               Williams, Thomas E. Q., Searching the Ground: Brother John T. Hatfield,
                            "The Hoosier Evangelist" on the Anniversary of his "Home
                            Camp" (
                            Greenfield
                        : The Author, 2001).
               
               Wilson, Denise, "The Material Culture and Daily Lives of Women in Colonial 
                            Vincennes
                        ," Le Journal, Center for French Colonial Studies, XVII
                        (Spring 2001).
               Wilson, William E., The Angel and the Serpent: The Story of 
                                New Harmony
                            
                   (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 1998). [Reprint edition.]
               Witcher, Curt B., "National Treasures in a Hoosier Repository: The Historical
                        Genealogy Department of the 
                            Allen County
                         Public Library," The Hoosier Genealogist, XLI (September
                        2001).
               Wolfe, Rich, Oh, What a Knight/Knightmares ([Tempe, Ariz.: Oh What a Knight
                        Enterprise], 2000).
               Yannessa, Mary Ann, Levi Coffin, 
                                Quaker
                            : Breaking the Bonds of Slavery in 
                                Ohio
                             and Indiana (Friends United Press, 2001).
               Yost, John, "Newton County's 51st Indiana Volunteer Regiment, Company
                        B," The Newcomer, 
                            Newton County
                         Historical Society (Spring 2000).
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
      
   
