
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 67, Issue 3, pages 197-298. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:67+issue:3+year:1971&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            Charles Clemon Deam: Hoosier Botanist
            
                    Paul Weatherwax
                    ∗
                
            During the first half of the twentieth century no botanist of midwestern America was better known or
                    more highly regarded than Charles Clemon Deam of Bluffton, Indiana. This was the waning period of
                    classical plant taxonomy, characterized by extensive exploration and collection and the publication
                    of state and regional monographs and floras, and Deam's various books and shorter articles
                    on the plants of Indiana have been cited as models for this type of publication. He was also well
                    known and highly regarded for his personal integrity and driving energy as well as for his salty
                    humor, his biting but honest critical evaluations, and a generous fund of inconsistencies and
                    eccentricities.
            My first acquaintance with Deam came in 1913 or 1914 in connection with activities of the Indiana
                    Academy of Science, and our first significant professional contacts occurred about 1922 when he
                    asked me to illustrate his book, then in preparation, on the grasses of the state. From this time on
                    we were in more or less continuous touch, by way of correspondence or visits, until near the time of
                    his death in 1953. During this period I wrote an introductory chapter and made the illustrations for
                    the grass book, read critically the manuscript and proof sheets of most of his publications, and
                    made many trips to his home at Bluffton for consultation and to assist in moving his herbarium and
                    library to 
                        Bloomington
                     after their purchase by Indiana University in 1931. I also had a share in the
                    responsibility of sorting his letters and other papers following his death.
            Inasmuch as it was my good fortune to be associated with this remarkable man for thirty years, and
                    since I am one of the few remaining botanists who knew him well, it seems appropriate that I make a
                    feeble attempt to act as his Boswell–to record some facts and some recollections which
                    might otherwise be lost forever. In fact, I have full authorization to do this very thing. Some
                    years before his death I showed him a huge pile of his letters written to me and told him that I was
                    saving them to write his biography. His facetious reply was: "I hereby appoint you to be my
                    official biographer." This article is an attempt to carry out that commission.
            What I shall say comes from several sources. After his death we 
                  
                     ∗ Paul Weatherwax Is professor emeritus of botany, Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            . He is the author of The Story of the Maize Plant (
                                Chicago
                            , 1923); Elementary Botany (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1942); Indian Com in Old America (
                                New York
                            , 1954); and numerous articles. Because the following article is reminiscence as
                            well as biography and because it is based on personal recollection as well as on substantial
                            research, the use of first person has been retained. Footnotes have been kept to a minimum,
                            and the author's personal knowledge is the basis for many of the citations. All
                            pictures, unless otherwise designated, are from the personal collection of the
                        author.
               
                     found among his papers a folder labeled "Notes for my
                    biography." Supplementing these notes with materials from a diary which Deam had kept from
                    about 1913 until near the time of his death, from journals kept by Mrs. Deam during their many
                    travels, and from newspaper clippings and personal recollections, his daughter Roberta (Mrs. Arthur
                    I. Ortenburger) prepared a brief biography. This was duplicated and distributed among her friends
                    but was apparently never otherwise published.1 The Proceedings of
                        the Indiana Academy of Science for 1953 carried a routine obituary prepared by the academy
                    necrologist, Will Edington of DePauw University, and a more extensive commentary on Deam's
                    life and work by Daniel DenUyl of Purdue University. Short biographies have also been published in
                    other periodicals and newspapers.2
            
            These documents have contributed important information, but some of the richest sources have been in
                    personal memories and in more than four hundred letters which I received from Deam during the years
                    in which we worked together on his publications. For many years it was his custom to keep nearby one
                    typewriter with the beginning of a letter to me in it. Notes were added from time to time as he
                    thought of points to be looked up or changes to be made in manuscript, illustrations, or proof; and
                    when a page was full, it was sent to me. I have also had access to hundreds of pages of his
                    voluminous correspondence with others. He was a prolific letter writer, considering it a grave
                    breach of responsibility to allow a letter to remain unanswered even for a few days whether an
                    immediate reply was needed or not, and he sometimes gently rebuked those with whom he corresponded
                    if they did not observe the same rule. In a letter dated September 12, 1951, he says: "Many
                    thanks for your letter of September 3, 1951, in reply to my letter of April 1st. I have now
                    forgotten why I wrote you, but it matters not." In another letter he says: "I
                    would be pleased if in the other world there would be a special place for fellows who won't
                    answer letters."3
            
            
               
                  1 Roberta Deam Ortenburger, "Charles Clemon Deam,
                        1865-1953" (1954). The original biographical notes, diaries, and journals on which Mrs.
                        Ortenburger's mimeographed biography were based have apparently been lost. Copies of
                        the biography and either the originals or copies of all letters and papers to which references
                        are made in this article–with the exception of letters from Charles C. Deam to Paul
                        Weatherwax–are on file in the Deam Herbarium, Department of Botany, Indiana
                        University. The Deam-Weatherwax correspondence, currently in the possession of the author, will
                        be placed in the herbarium at a future date.
               
                  2 Will E. Edington, "Charles Clemon Deam," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science, LXIII (1953), 29-32; Daniel DenUyl,
                        "Charles C. Deam," ibid., 232-39. See also Paul Weatherwax,
                        "Charles C. Deam, 1865-1953," Proceedings of the 
                                Iowa
                             Academy of Science for 1954, LXI (1954), 65-67; Daniel DenUyl,
                        "Charles C. Deam," Journal of Forestry, XLIV (January,
                        1946), 66-67; Bluffton Evening News-Banner, October 27, 1938; 
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                        News-Sentinel, May 4, 1946; Will E. Edington was professor of mathematics,
                        DePauw University, 
                            Greencastle
                        , Indiana. At the time of his death in 1961 Daniel DenUyl was associate professor of
                        forestry at Purdue University, 
                            West Lafayette
                        , Indiana.
               
                  3 Deam to J. V. Stauffer, International Friendship Gardens, 
                            Michigan City
                        ,
            
            
            The subject matter of his letters was not always botanical. Some of the most revealing paragraphs
                    interspersed among the technical notes were pithy comments on the weather; his own health; world
                    wide political and economic conditions; the defects of modern educational systems; the evils of
                    tobacco, alcohol, gambling, and indebtedness; the curse of high school and college athletics; and
                    the merits and foibles of everyone from presidents, governors, legislators, and his host of
                    professional acquaintances down to modern youth as exemplified by the high school boy who arrived
                    five minutes late for work on a Saturday morning. In his later years he sometimes dropped a bit of
                    advice which might be paraphrased as follows: "Be careful about what you write in letters.
                    They tell too much about you." And then, in his rambling paragraphs, he would promptly
                    proceed to violate his own stated rule. For this fault, if it be a fault, we are all the richer. His
                    letters go a long way toward telling what sort of person he was.
            If some of the following comments and the selection of some of the quotations from his letters would
                    seem to imply ridicule or otherwise to place Deam in a bad light, it must be understood that this is
                    not at all what is intended. Although he- might be a bit surprised at this word portrait of himself,
                    I am sure that, with his high regard for honesty and accuracy, he would give it his stamp of
                    approval.
            EARLY YEARS
            Deam's life span of almost eighty-eight years began near Bluffton, Indiana, on August 30,
                    1865, and ended at Bluffton on May 29, 1953.4 He and a younger brother, Lewis
                    Edward, were sons of John Henry and Martha (Marsh) Deam. Their grandfather, John Aughey Deam, had
                    moved to 
                        Wells County
                    , Indiana, from 
                        Montgomery County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , and settled on a claim of 1,300 acres along the Wabash River in
                        1837.5 John Henry Deam was a farmer and an inventor of various mechanical
                    devices, none of which were ever financially profitable. Charles' mother was known as a
                    meticulous housekeeper, and this early influence may have carried over into Deam's later
                    respect for order and system.
            Charles' mother died of typhoid fever when he was sixteen years old. He also suffered an
                    attack of typhoid at that time, and one of 
                  Indiana, September 12, 1951; Deam to Ray C. Friesner, 
                                Butler
                             University, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , March 8, 1951.
                  
                     4 Most of the data in this section are taken from Ortenburger,
                            "Charles Clemon Deam." A few comments are based on personal statements by
                            Deam.
                  
                     5 The nature of this "claim" is not clear. An
                            examination of the records in the 
                                Wells County
                             Courthouse, Bluffton, Indiana, shows four transfers of land, a total of 301.1
                            acres, to John A. Deam over a period of two years, 1834-1836. There is nothing to indicate
                            who previously owned the four tracts, nor was the author able to establish the exact number
                            of acres owned by John A. Deam.
               
                     the home remedies which he was compelled to drink was an
                    infusion of a certain herb boiled in milk. He had no name for the plant then, but the savor lingered
                    with him for half a century or more until he learned what it was. In his Flora of
                        Indiana we find this brief comment on Gnaphalium obtusifolium, now
                    commonly known as old-field balsam, pussy's toes, or everlasting: "I knew of a
                    case where a person who was suffering with flux and had been given up by the attending physician was
                    cured by drinking copious draughts of milk in which this herb had been boiled."6 In an oral statement to me he later identified this as an oblique reference to
                    his own experience.
            The family home at this time was a two story white frame house two miles up the Wabash
                        River east of Bluffton. About a year after the death of Deam's mother, a
                    widow with three children came into the picture as a stepmother; and when trouble followed, he and
                    his brother Edward moved back to the old brick house which had been the original family homestead
                    and lived there alone for some time. For the story of Deam's boyhood we can put ditto marks
                    under that of most Indiana farm boys of that time. He chopped wood, milked cows, plowed fields, and
                    learned the hard way about other farm chores. He attended the local one room country school and then
                    the new Bluffton high school where he was a member of the first graduating class in June, 1884. To
                    attend the high school he had walked the round trip of more than five miles each day–ten
                    miles on some days in winter when flood waters of the 
                        Wabash
                     cut off his regular route. During the winter of 1884-1885 he taught a country school
                    two and one half miles east of Bluffton and saved most of his earnings as a nest egg toward a college education. This amounted to $125.
            Borrowing an additional $100 from an uncle, at eight per cent interest, Deam entered
                    DePauw University at 
                        Greencastle
                    , Indiana, in September, 1885. As shown in a carefully itemized account in a little
                    notebook, his expenses for the year amounted to $175. During his second year at DePauw he
                    abandoned strict 
                        economy
                     to the extent of joining a literary society (later to become a chapter of the Delta
                    Upsilon fraternity) and even bought the official badge, which set him back to the extent of
                    $7.50.
            Deam's program of studies at DePauw included English and history, both of which he detested;
                    Latin and German, which he found not too objectionable; and zoology and chemistry, which he liked
                    best of all. He also had a course in elocution, and he and a classmate, Albert J. Beveridge, who was
                    later a member of the 
                        United States
                     Senate, sometimes went out into the quiet countryside to practice their declamations.
                    At one time Deam considered studying law, but this ambition was abandoned when he learned of the
                    amount of reading that 
                  
                     6 Charles C. Deam, Flora of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1940), 964.
               
                     would be required and feared that his eyes would not stand the
                    strain. In view of his later accomplishment as a plant taxonomist it is interesting to note that he
                    had no course in botany in college. At the end of his sophomore year in 1887, with less than a
                    dollar left and no prospect of being able to borrow more, he went back to Bluffton, walking most of
                    the way.
            During the next four years Deam worked at various odd jobs-as a farm employee, an assistant to civil
                    engineers, a self-employed farmer, and a drugstore apprentice–at wages ranging from fifty
                    cents to two dollars per day. He once remarked to his long time friend and fraternity brother, Mel
                    T. Cook,7 that he believed he had surpassed Abraham Lincoln as a rail splitter
                    and at the age of twenty-three had helped to build a rail fence 120 rods long. In May, 1891, Deam
                    bought a drugstore in Bluffton and launched a commercial career which was to provide his economic
                    independence for the remainder of his life.
            On June 11, 1893, Deam married Stella Mullin of Valley Mills, Indiana, who was teaching in an
                    elementary school at Bluffton. She shared his interests and activities and served as guardian of his
                    health for nearly sixty years, preceding him in death by only five weeks. Her contribution to our
                    story constitutes a special chapter. A son, Robert Mullin Deam, born October 23, 1896, lived less
                    than two years, his death apparently caused by typhoid fever. A daughter, Roberta, born April 2,
                    1900, was for a time assistant professor of zoology at the University of 
                        Oklahoma
                    . She died on March 27, 1961, leaving three sons.
            Deam was an outstanding leader in early progressive developments in the vicinity of Bluffton. When
                    telephone service first became available, there was much opposition to the new gadget; but he took
                    the lead as a subscriber, and the first number issued was retained for many years by his drugstore.
                    He made liberal contributions toward the establishment of the city library and served as president
                    of the library board until he moved to his new home outside the city limits. Working against great
                    opposition, including a threatened boycott of his business by some of his rural customers, he was
                    one of the thirty signers of a petition for the 
                        Wells County
                     Hospital.
            In 1903 the Deams purchased a tract of about six acres, a part of his grandfather's original
                    holdings, just east of the city limits of Bluffton, and in 1905 they built the house which was to
                    become the mecca of plant taxonomists for half a century. The house was one of the first in the
                    community to be equipped with fixtures for both gas 
                  
                     7 Melville T. Cook, a well known botanist with wide professional
                            experience in various colleges and in the 
                                United States
                             Department of Agriculture, was in the preparatory school at DePauw while Deam
                            was there in college. Cook later became a member of the Delta Upsilon fraternity.
               
                     and electric lighting. A part of the land was devoted to the
                    development of an informal botanical garden, and this was to occupy the Deams' time and
                    attention to the end of their days.
            CONSCIENTIOUS AND OBLIGING MERCHANT
            The circumstances under which Deam embarked on his career as a druggist in 1891 throw an interesting
                    light on one facet of his character. While working as an apprentice clerk in a drugstore in 
                        Kokomo
                    , he had criticized his boss for standing in the doorway and complaining about hard
                    times. One day when Deam was temporarily out of the store, the owner stood in the doorway expounding
                    his usual line to a traveling salesman. Seeing Deam approaching he remarked that he would have to
                    move inside because Deam would not permit him to stand there. The salesman took an interest in this
                    unusual clerk and soon helped him to set up a business of his own in Bluffton.8
            
            By putting into practice many of the ideas that he had accumulated during his apprenticeship, Deam
                    made the store a success from the start. At first there was only one clerk. This meant long hours
                    and hard work for the owner and eventually brought on the health problem which led indirectly to the
                    beginning of his career as a botanist. The store soon acquired a reputation for dependability and
                    became a center for the exchange of neighborhood information. A blackboard out front regularly
                    carried a note on the temperature and the daily weather forecast, and we can imagine that other bits
                    of news found a place on it from time to time. The owner knew most of his customers personally, and
                    each sale was likely to take the form of a friendly visit. In later years, as both the city and his
                    business grew, Deam often expressed regret at the loss of this personal touch in business relations.
                    Behind his curt, gruff, sometimes almost rude manner his customers saw his more amiable qualities
                    and his innate honesty. He later bought other drugstores in Bluffton, and in one instance at least
                    his main motive was to keep out the chain drugstores.
            In his autobiographical notes and in some of his letters Deam records that, among other innovations,
                    he had the first "floor show case" to appear in any store in town and was the
                    first to install a sanitary linoleum floor covering; and each Friday night the showcases were
                    carried out to the sidewalk so that the floor could be thoroughly scrubbed. He was also the first
                    merchant in town to take the extravagant step of giving his clerk a whole week of vacation with full
                    pay.
            For advertising he sometimes used a method which would today 
                  
                     8 These details concerning the drugstore are recorded in Ortenburger,
                            "Charles Clemon Deam," and I have heard most of them repeated by Deam many
                            times.
               
                     bring down on his head the wrath of the environmentalists. He
                    carefully opened and saved the envelopes of his incoming mail; and, inserting in each envelope some
                    provocative statement about Deam's Drugstore, he scattered these missives along the country
                    roads as he and Mrs. Deam went on their Sunday drives, trusting the natural curiosity of the finders
                    about reading other people's mail.
            Another advertising device which brought the store to the attention of customers in many homes in and
                    around Bluffton was Deam's Red Almanac, published annually from 1901 to
                    1932 except for the year 1918.9 A perusal of this publication today recalls for
                    older readers a type of literature which had wide influence in small towns and rural communities
                    around the turn of the century when there were few daily newspapers and no radio or television. A
                    part of the Almanac carried the usual astronomical and astrological data, the
                    times of sunrise and sunset for each day, the moon's phases, eclipses, signs of the zodiac,
                    movements of the stars and planets, and the long range weather forecast. Some of the later numbers
                    contained notes on the history and geographical features of 
                        Wells County
                    , and, following the sale of a half interest in the store to J. R. Spivey in 1910, the
                    pamphlet included a page or two of information about the store with portraits of the two owners.
                    Running notes about historical anniversaries for each day of the year, columns of jokes, and
                    interesting items of general information served to lure the reader on into a maze of extravagant
                    claims about the medicines, cosmetics, and other goods for sale in the store. Indeed, some of the
                    contents of the Almanac cause us to wonder how Deam's conscience could
                    reconcile it with his high regard for scientific accuracy. Certain companies made a business of
                    publishing almanacs to advertise patent medicines, and where satisfactory arrangements could be
                    made, they would put out special editions adapted to individual drugstores. Deam's Almanac was published by one such company. Many of the products which were
                    advertised were offered with a strict guarantee of satisfaction or your money back. Scattered among
                    other items were signed testimonials about cures that had been effected, and there was a standing
                    offer of a reward of five dollars to anyone who could show that any one of the testimonials was not
                    genuine.
            One of the more lucrative enterprises connected with Deam's drug business was the
                    development of a line of products bearing his name and advertised in the Almanac.
                    These ranged from Deam's Headache Powders and Deam's Catarrh Cure through a series
                    of Vegetable Liver Pills, Pleasant Worm Syrup, Colic Cure, and Soothing Syrup to Deam's
                    Nerve and Bone Liniment (Good for Man or 
                  
                     9 A complete set of Deam's Red Almanac,
                            bound in red cloth in two volumes, is located in the Indiana Division, Indiana State
                            Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                    
                    
                  CHARLES C. DEAM. c. 1914.
               
                     Beast) and Deam's Liquid Smoke. Some of these he
                    himself prepared from the raw ingredients; others he bought in bulk and packaged for sale under his
                    name. The Liquid Smoke, used in curing meat, had a wide sale and was very profitable. In several
                    numbers of the Almanac the Nerve and Bone Liniment was recommended for rheumatism,
                    neuralgia, pleurisy, backache, stiff neck, stiff joints, sore throat, quinsy, inflammation, sprains,
                    bruises, toothache, etc., etc., in man, and a comparable list of ailments with which beasts might be
                    afflicted.
            One product, a mixture of glutinous ingredients which could be used as a substitute for eggs in
                    baking, was sold under the name Savegg. By chance or by design, and I suspect the latter, the
                    cartons in which packages of this product were shipped were twelve inches wide and eighteen inches
                    long–just right for storing or shipping herbarium sheets–and thousands of his
                    specimens later came to Indiana University under the Savegg label.
            By present standards some of Deam's medicinal preparations were, of course, of questionable
                    value, but they represent a stage in the evolution of the healing arts in the rural Midwest. And
                    they were money makers for the store. The ethical aspect of this kind of business was once brought
                    into focus by an incident which must have occurred about 1932. To a small, friendly group of close
                    acquaintances who had been attending a meeting of a committee of the Indiana Academy of Science,
                    Deam had been expounding on the satisfaction he had derived from being an honest and obliging
                    merchant and conscientious pharmacist. His long time friend, and occasional gadfly, Bruce
                        Williamson,10 dryly remarked: "Yes, I well remember Deam's
                    Nerve and Bone Liniment (Good for Man or Beast)." I do not recall Deam's reply to
                    this stinger. He probably made none. His defective hearing was often convenient in such situations,
                    and he simply tuned out what he did not wish to hear.
            Similar inconsistencies appeared in some of his other business dealings. He was strongly opposed to
                    the use of alcoholic liquors, but during the latter part of the prohibition era, when hard liquor
                    could be sold only on prescription, at least one of his stores stocked a supply. And on one occasion
                    when I had introduced to him a new research assistant, he shook hands with her and then turned her
                    hand over and looked at her fingernails. He then remarked: "She's all right; she
                    don't have these red vulture claws." At the same time a full array of nail enamels
                    and other cosmetics were displayed in his stores. In spite of his aversion to tobacco some numbers
                    of the Red Almanac extolled the virtues of some of the cigars which he sold. The
                    conscien- 
                  
                     10 Bruce Williamson, at one time a banker in Bluffton, was an amateur
                            entomologist and a world authority on the dragonflies.
               
                     tious merchant still recognized the old maxim that
                    "business is business."
            PLANT COLLECTOR
            Both Deam and his wife had an obsession for collecting things. As a boy he collected arrowheads,
                    tomahawks, and other Indian artifacts in the fields around Bluffton. During their early travels he
                    saved coins and postage stamps of the 
                        United States
                     and Latin American countries. For a time their interests turned to fishes, amphibians,
                    and reptiles, and small collections of these were kept for many years. Mrs. Deam was particularly
                    interested for some time in butterflies, moths, and mollusk shells. Many of these collections were
                    enriched by extensive exchanges with others who had similar interests.
            The exact date of the beginning of Deam's interest in collecting plants is not known, but it
                    must have been about 1893. As is so often the case, it was probably a gradual development with no
                    sharp focus on its beginning. As a druggist Deam had an early interest in the pharmaceutical
                    significance of plants, but it is evident that for some time he had no exact or extensive knowledge
                    of the plants themselves. In high school he had apparently made some study of botany, as is attested
                    by data sheets found among his papers, but this seems to have been the limit of his formal
                    instruction in the subject.
            He and Mrs. Deam were accustomed to taking walks or drives in the country as time permitted, and on
                    one Sunday walk they picked up an interesting plant which they did not know. He took it to his
                    friend Bruce Williamson and asked him what it was. Williamson's answer was to lend him a
                    copy of Gray's Manual of Botany and tell him to find out for himself.11 To Deam's great delight he was able to run the plant through the
                    keys and find that it was the common moth mullein, Verbascum blattaria. This
                    experience opened to him a new world of independent search for information, with all the excitement
                    of a profitable game to be played, and set him on a course to be followed for the remainder of his
                    life. His earliest mounted specimen, Ilysanthes dubia, an inconspicuous little
                    member of the snapdragon family, bears the date, September 13, 1896.
            In the early years of Deam's broader interest in scientific collecting he made four trips to
                    Latin American countries, and Mrs. Deam accompanied him on three of them. Their travels in 
                        Guatemala
                     and 
                        Mexico
                     were motivated by an interest in the countries themselves and by the opportunities for
                    making collections. On the first trip, beginning in November, 1898, and lasting thirteen weeks, they
                    traveled 
                  
                     11 Asa Gray, Manual of the Botany of the Northern 
                                    United States
                                
                      … (
                                Boston
                            , 1848). There were many subsequent editions of this work.
               
                     in 
                        Mexico
                     as far south as the Isthmus of Tehuantepec. The statement in his notes that no white
                    woman had ever before been seen in the Tehuantepec area should probably be taken with some
                        reservations.12
            
            Considering the primitive living conditions this must have been a real adventure for two
                    inexperienced travelers with no knowledge of the Spanish language except that provided by small
                    dictionaries. Years later I heard him tell of an experience in 
                        Oaxaca
                     in which, on arriving at a hotel in the evening, he quickly inquired about the location
                    of the escuela and was told where the local school was, with the suggestion that
                    he could visit it manana. But his inquiry was of a more urgent nature, and he had
                    found the wrong word in the dictionary. By pantomime he explained his problem and was promptly
                    directed to the escusado. Deam and a friend from Bluffton made a second trip to 
                        Mexico
                     in the summer of 1900.
            In January and February, 1904, the Deams, including daughter Roberta, then a little less than four
                    years old, accompanied a group of zoologists from 
                        Ohio
                     State University on a collecting trip to 
                        Guatemala
                    , crossing the Gulf of 
                        Mexico
                     from 
                        New Orleans
                     to Puerto Barrios by boat. Two members of the party, Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Williamson,
                    were later to share many scientific and social interests with the Deams. This trip occurred before
                    the completion of the Central American Railroad across the continent, and they traveled to San
                    José on the Pacific coast by burros and stagecoach. Mrs. Deam collected fifty-six species
                    of moths and butterflies, and Deam added 438 species of plants to his collection. Most of the plants
                    ultimately went to the University of 
                        Michigan
                     as a contribution to the study of the botany of the Mayan area. A second collecting
                    trip to 
                        Guatemala
                    , for three weeks in May and June of 1909, was much less rigorous since the
                    transcontinental railroad had been completed and was in operation. The Deams were again accompanied
                    by Williamson.
            Between 1904 and 1908 Mrs. Deam and Roberta spent parts of three winters in 
                        Florida
                     to escape the rigors of Indiana weather and, on one of the sojourns, to aid in
                    restoring Roberta's health following an attack of scarlet fever. On all these occasions the
                    collecting equipment–insect nets, cyanide jars, and plant presses–went along
                    and were diligently used. Many years later, as a relaxation from the tension of completing the
                    Indiana Flora, the Deams spent the colder months of two or three more winters in 
                        Florida
                    . Although he had no plans for publishing anything on the flora of that area, he
                    continued to collect plants.
            In due time Deam came to realize that if he was to get anywhere he would have to limit the scope of
                    his collecting activity. During the early years of the century he thought of confining it to the
                    phanerogamic 
                  
                     12 This statement was recorded in the Ortenburger biography.
               
                    
                    
                  DEAM AND THE WEED WAGON
                  
                  LEFT APRIL 21, 1971; ABOVE JUNE 20, 1923
               
                     flora of the Western Hemisphere, the acquisitions to be made by
                    travel and exchange. About 1910 he decided to limit his principal efforts to the vascular plants of
                    Indiana. This decision fitted in well with his duties as state forester, to which position he had
                    been appointed in 1909.
            During the twenty year period following his first appointment as state forester Deam did most of his
                    field work on the state flora. The drugstore no longer required much of his time, and his
                    responsibilities as forester took him into good areas for collecting plants. For two years his field
                    trips were made on horseback or by motorcycle, but with the purchase of a Model T Ford touring car
                    in 1915 his activities entered a new dimension. He had the car equipped with a self-starter, a
                    novelty at that time, and had a special truck body made to order for it. It provided sleeping space
                    for two, and in it, often accompanied by Mrs. Deam or Roberta, he began a series of travels which
                    were to total more than 125,000 miles and take him into every one of the 1,016 townships of the
                    state. This vehicle, which came to be known to farmers all over the state, was dubbed the
                    "weed wagon" by many who had only a hazy idea of what its driver was doing. Up at
                    dawn, with a full day in the field, writing his notes at night by the light of a gasoline lantern,
                    he managed to get in two days' work in each twenty-four hours, with no time off for Sundays
                    or holidays. In fact, the week ends were actually his busiest times. He owed nothing to the state on
                    those days and often managed to be near enough to a college or university to draft into his service
                    some botanist with similar interests. I was fortunate enough to be one of these on many occasions.
                    Years later this nostalgic note appeared in one of his letters: "We have ordered a new
                    Chevrolet car but I am sore about it. The rear springs are so low you can not get off the concrete.
                    One will not dare to go on an earth road. I wish I could rig up a Model T. Ford."13
            
            Having had much experience on a farm himself, Deam had a knack of getting along with farmers and was
                    usually able to talk his way into their confidence and often get their active support when he wished
                    to look for plants on their land. In a few instances when he was rebuffed or accused of trespassing,
                    he was known to have bluffed his way out of the difficulty by pointing to wild onions, 
                        Canada
                     thistle, quack grass, or some other noxious weed which he said was being allowed to go
                    to seed in violation of some real or imaginary law. As a last resort he would sometimes throw his
                    weight as a state official.
            Botanists fortunate enough to have spent some time with him in the field were impressed by
                    Deam's great energy and persistence. He usually started the day with a recital of his
                    physical infirmities and limitations–complaining that his health was failing, that he had
                    not 
                  
                     13 Deam to Weatherwax, January 30, 1934.
               
                     much longer to live, and that the collecting on this particular
                    day would have to be left to those who were younger-only to end the day still going strong long
                    after most of the party had had enough. His principal implement in the field was a Mexican machete,
                    with which he slashed his way through weeds, brush, and poison ivy in places too forbidding for less
                    hardy collectors. Throughout his life he seemed to be completely immune to ivy poisoning or pollen
                    allergens.
            But Deam did have some limitations in the field. One was his fear of water, the other a dread of
                    snakes. He apparently was not a good swimmer, if he could swim at all, and he was never quite
                    comfortable when a boat had to be used for collecting. Nothing unnerved him quite so much as the
                    knowledge that he was in an area which, as he said, smelled like snake territory. Planning to stop
                    at 
                        Bloomington
                     on his way to 
                        Florida
                     in December, 1940, he wrote: "I want to talk to you about 
                        Florida
                     and get all the dope on rattlers I can. If I see one, Lot's wife will not have
                    anything on me. I will turn to stone but I have my machete sharp and may retain consciousness long
                    enough to use it before I freeze up."14 From later comments we can
                    picture him going at breakneck speed through the Everglades, collecting plants and dodging
                    rattlesnakes: "I carry a 6 ft. staff 'snake stick' with me and I beat the
                    path in front of me."15 Like most other 
                        Florida
                     travelers he never did have any close encounters with snakes, but he was always seeing
                    dead ones and hearing stories of big ones which had been seen in that very place a few days earlier,
            This aversion to snakes took still another turn. In one undated letter written to me while the grass
                    book was in preparation he says: "I do not wish to appear sentimental, etc. but I
                    don't like the name rattlesnake grass. So I changed the common name of Glyceria canadensis (one of the prettiest of all our grasses) from rattle snake to 
                        Canada
                     manna grass. Do you approve? If you don't, go to Mongo where the rattlers are.
                    I dislike to coin a name. If you think of a better one, jot it down, but no snake grass, all grassy
                    places look snaky to me."16
            
            Finding that a favorite collecting area had been ruined by drainage, Deam exploded with this
                    invective in a letter to me: "I was so mad yesterday I just boiled. We spent about an hour
                    fighting our way through weeds and nettles higher than the head to get to a small lake I knew many
                    years ago and at last I found the old basin where it was. It had been drained and everything grown
                    up and all the owner gained was a more luxuriant crop of nettles. … My recollections
                        
                  
                     14 Deam to Weatherwax, December, 1940. Deam frequently dated his
                            letters with the month and year only; at other times he omitted the date completely.
                            Throughout this article and the footnotes the author has cited the date as given by Deam.
                  
                     15 Deam to Weatherwax, February 16, 1949.
                  
                     16 Deam to Weatherwax, n.d.
               
                    
                    
                  DEAM IN THE FIELD.
                  CLOCKWISE FKOM UPPER LEFT: FAILING LAKE, JULY, 1933; WITH A MARIJUANA PLANT, KOSCIUSKO COUNTY, AUGUST 15, 1940;
                                MAKING A SPECIMEN, WEST OF DUNES STATE PARK, MAY 28, 1929.
               
                     go back to our lakes when they were lakes and not mud
                        holes."17 Whose land was it? What were the plans for future use of
                    the area after it was drained? What is the story of the natural disappearance of our lakes? All
                    these were minor considerations for him. The main concern was that a good collecting area had been
                    ruined by the ecological change.
            Those who received plant specimens from Deam in exchange or otherwise were always impressed by their
                    value as taxonomic records. They were well prepared and fully documented as to date and place of
                    collection, habitat, and ecological associations, these qualities being the result of a definite
                    system of collecting and recording. When the decision had been made to collect a certain plant, care
                    was taken to select a specimen which would adequately represent the species. To Deam this usually
                    meant a single plant or parts of one plant unless there were obvious variations. In his later years
                    he gave some attention to the technique of "mass collection" being practiced by
                    some taxonomists, in which the collection was made from a large number of individuals in an attempt
                    to get a wide range of variation, but he realized that this approach represented a philosophy
                    foreign to the system in which he was accustomed to work. So he usually limited himself to the
                    search for a specimen which could be regarded as "typical" for the species. The
                    specimen selected was as free as possible from damage, and if it promised to produce an attractive
                    appearance when mounted, so much the better. If no specimen quite fitted these requirements, the
                    best one was selected. This resulted in a ragged record in some instances, but it was a record and
                    that was what counted. With an eye toward conservation Deam was careful to leave some of the plants
                    of a colony as a continuing record; but if only a single specimen of some rare species was found, as
                    in the case of some of the orchids, science won, and the plant was sacrificed.
            The specimen selected was immediately placed in the plant press between sheets of blank newsprint.
                    Deam rarely used old newspapers for this, as is probably the custom with most collectors. A serial
                    number was affixed, and detailed notes as to light, moisture, soil conditions, plant associates, and
                    characteristics of the species which did not show in the specimen were written on the sheet. This
                    information was later recorded in the accession journal. In placing the plant in the press no
                    particular care was taken to arrange its parts. Later, when it had wilted, it was smoothed out for
                    better appearance and better display of its significant characteristics.
            If a plant under consideration for collection happened to be an escape from cultivation or some other
                    recent adventive, the test for 
                  
                     17 Deam to Weatherwax, August 8, 1929. The ellipsis in this and
                            following quotations indicates omissions of various lengths.
               
                     "admitting" it to the state flora was whether
                    it was well enough established to persist and reproduce. Decision on this point often involved some
                    fine distinctions, and a survey of his admissions and exclusions shows some interesting
                    inconsistencies. A plant which had been intentionally introduced but still showed evidence of having
                    become established usually had less chance of admission than had one which had come into the state
                    accidentally. This matter of standards of admission had some bearing on the game being played by the
                    authors of the various state floras of that time. There was some rivalry as to the total number of
                    species which had been found in each state. Deam made his own rules for the game.
            When an enthusiastic garden club once urged its members to collect seeds of wildflowers everywhere
                    and scatter them along the roads as they traveled around the state, Deam was very much incensed at
                    this intentional pollution of the flora and the false reports of plants far out of their normal
                    range which would follow. Guided by the same principle he was skeptical for a long time about
                    reports of plants found along highways and railroads, but he later came to see his mistake. The many
                    railways which crisscrossed the state were such efficient agencies of dispersal and were doing so
                    much to alter the state flora that the plants found along them simply could not be ignored. One of
                    his letters clearly reveals this change of attitude. In it he outlines a project involving a
                    proposed ten year study of the changes occurring along railroads, and he concludes with the
                    following: "Then annually watch for the disappearance and addition of others and if
                    possible say why. I rarely ever walked a railroad or pasture field in my work. Now in writing up the
                    flora I find I made a mistake. The day you and I were out in 
                        Monroe County
                     near Harrodsburg we found a Silene chlorantha, new to Ind. and we
                    have no subsequent records. Well this is only one thing."18
            
            When he was putting the finishing touches on the Flora, he gave special attention
                    to some doubtful reports of plants said to have been found in the state. Through the years there had
                    been mentioned incidentally or in lists prepared by amateurs a considerable number of species for
                    which there were no voucher specimens in any herbarium. He kept a list of all these questionable
                    reports and was always alert to the possibility of verifying or otherwise explaining them. As an
                    example we may cite the case of Tripsacum dactyloides, a grass which has occupied
                    a special place in the botanical limelight because of its controversial relationship to the Indian
                    corn plant. It had been listed in unpublished notes by Dr. J. Schneck as having been found in the
                    lower Wabash Valley, but the exact locality was not given and there 
                  
                     18 Deam to Weatherwax, April 5, 1933.
               
                     was no verifying specimen.19 Since this
                    plant was known to occur across the Wabash River in 
                        Illinois
                    , there was the possibility that this was the basis of Schneck's report. But
                    Deam wanted to find it in Indiana if it was to be found there. In his characteristic way he set
                    about to learn something of its habitat in other states. With this information in hand he started
                    his search, and in a short time he found colonies of the plant in 
                        Spencer
                     and 
                        Posey
                     counties. Similar stories could be told of his search for other species.
                    Deam's meticulous and critical observations brought to light no less than twenty-five
                    vascular plants new to science and extended into Indiana the known ranges of many other species.20
            
            PLANT TAXONOMIST
            Two large blocks of granite mark the Deam burial plot in the cemetery at Six-Mile Church southeast of
                    Bluff ton, but an equally impressive monument, with far wider impact, is the heritage that Deam left
                    us in plant records and collections. A plant taxonomist is more than one who merely collects plants,
                    glues them to sheets of paper, and files them in a cabinet. He must also place them in their natural
                    relationships to one another and to their environment and take into account their status in the long
                    range succession of changes occurring in the area in which he finds them. The period in which Deam
                    was most active was one of critical significance to plant taxonomy and ecology in Indiana and the
                    entire Midwest. Great natural areas of the native vegetation were yielding to axe, plow, fire, and
                    drainage; and a host of migrant species were coming in by way of railroads, highways, and
                    agricultural practices. Deam's particular service was to leave an accurate and detailed
                    record of what plants were here and what was happening to them during the half century in which most
                    of his work was done. The main item in this record is the herbarium, now in custody of the
                    Department of Botany of Indiana University. There will always be questions about the proper
                    identification, nomenclature, and classification of plants of any area of interest, but a well
                    documented and properly preserved specimen stands as a record transcending all ephemeral
                    interpretations of the plant.
            Deam's innate bent for collecting things and classifying them was by no means limited to his
                    herbarium. All kinds of interesting odds and ends which he had picked up here and there were tagged
                        
                  
                     19 Dr. J. Schneck, a physician and amateur botanist of Mt. Carmel, 
                                Illinois
                            , made collections along both sides of the lower Wabash
                            River. See J. Schneck] "Catalogue of the Flora of the Wabash
                                Valley below the Mouth of White River, and Observations
                            Thereon," Seventh Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana,
                                Made during the Tear 1875 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1876).
                  
                     20 See Appendix 2.
               
                     and labeled as to the time and place of acquisition,
                    significance, and attending circumstances, and the narrative often wandered far away from the object
                    itself. This information is particularly important in connection with his large collection of
                    portraits and other photographs, many of which would be meaningless without such identification. He
                    kept classified lists of guests and other friends and placed them into groups as to personal habits,
                    idiosyncrasies, and attitudes-smokers and nonsmokers, drinkers ditto, Republicans and Democrats,
                    those who liked or detested certain foods, etc. After his death his papers yielded carefully
                    prepared lists of new species and varieties of plants which he had discovered, species and varieties
                    named after him,21 and problems needing further attention. There was also an
                    interesting collection of pieces of wire, nails, screws, sharp stones, etc., which had been the
                    cause of tire punctures-a part of the saga of his 125,000 mile collecting journey over the state.
                    Most of these objects were labeled as to date, place, and other details.
            Deam's religious regard for order and system is best reflected in the maintenance of his
                    herbarium. The 60,000 to 75,000 or more specimens ultimately included in it were filed under the
                    Engler system.22 We may now disagree with him about the use of this system, but
                    it worked for him and is perfectly intelligible to botanists. He was seldom at a loss to lay his
                    hand on a certain specimen when he needed it.
            As monographs including plants of the midwestern flora were published, Deam perused them carefully
                    and tried to evaluate their findings as far as they applied to Indiana plants. When this involved
                    changes in nomenclature, he went through the laborious task of bringing the labels of his specimens
                    up to date. Even when he had an assistant to help in this work, it had to be done in a very definite
                    way. The old label was pulled off, the paste scraped off with a razor blade, and the new label,
                    including all notes, affixed in a definite position. No variance from this routine was
                    permitted–not even the substitution of a pocket knife for the razor blade in removing the
                    paste. Most of the Deam specimens are well documented. This kind of information will have an
                    increasing value as time goes on. Although many of the specimens have been relabeled in conformity
                    with new research, the collection data have always remained intact.
            Since the distribution of each species in the state was always an important consideration, the
                    discovery of a plant in an area where it was not previously known to occur became an important item
                    and 
                  
                     21 See Appendix 3.
                  
                     22 This system was embodied in Die Natiirlichen
                                Pflanzenfamilien, edited by Adolph Engler and Karl Prantl and published in parts in 
                                Leipzig
                            , 
                                Germany
                            , between 1897 and 1915. It was widely used in the organization of herbaria in
                            the early years of this century and still persists in most of them.
               
                    
                    
                  PHOTOGRAPH OF SPECIMEN IN CHARLES C.
                                DEAM HERBARIUM
                  
                  Reproduced from Charles C. Deam, Trees of Indiana (2nd rev. ed., Division
                            of Forestry, Indiana Department of Conservation, Publication 13; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , 1931), 181.
               
                    
                    
                  PHOTOGRAPH OF SPECIMEN IN CHARLES C.
                                DEAM HERBARIUM
                  
                  Reeproduced from Charles C. Deam, Trees of Indiana (2nd rev. ed., Division
                            of Forestry, Indiana Department of Conservation, Publication 13; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , 1931), 39.
               
                     justified the preservation of a specimen although the herbarium
                    might already contain many specimens of the same species from other localities. For this purpose
                    Deam employed the method used by others in the study of state floras and adopted the county as the
                    practical unit for recording distribution. This worked very well for Indiana since most of the
                    counties are relatively small and homogeneous in terrain.
            A good herbarium specimen is a unique geographical, ecological, and historical document. Lists of
                    plants collected in definite areas at specific times are only as good as the competence and
                    integrity of the collector, and they cannot be reviewed critically. If such lists include detailed
                    descriptions, they are more reliable but are still open to question. Many plant lists published by
                    amateurs for parts of Indiana are practically worthless because of these limitations. The preserved
                    plant itself, as a properly prepared and fully documented herbarium specimen, is the next best thing
                    to observation of the plant itself in its native habitat. Deam's specimens were as well
                    prepared as circumstances would permit, and practically all of them were treated with mercuric
                    chloride to prevent insect damage. They will serve as dependable records for a long time to come.
            Because of taxonomists' confidence in him, Deam's publications on the plants of
                    Indiana will provide a reliable record for all but the most critical research purposes. Among his
                    publications were twenty or more short articles in the Proceedings of the Indiana
                        Academy of Science, listing additions to the state flora, or extensions of ranges, and
                    citing the herbarium in which each voucher specimen had been deposited. His first book, Trees of Indiana, appeared in 1912 in the annual report of the State Board of Forestry for
                    1911. The edition of 10,000 copies was soon exhausted, and in 1919 a second printing of 1,000 copies
                    lasted only five days after announcement of its publication. A revised edition in 1921 included
                    photographs of herbarium specimens, and distribution maps were included in a second revision in
                    1931. A further revision, prepared with the help of Daniel Den-Uyl, Lloyd Van Camp, and T. E. Shaw
                    of the Department of Forestry, Purdue University, was published a short time after Deam's
                    death in 1953. A companion book on the Shrubs of Indiana, in the same style as the
                    later revisions on trees, appeared in 1924, and a revised edition was published in 1932. The Grasses of Indiana, illustrated with line drawings and distribution maps, was
                    published in 1929. All these books have been widely used in the schools and colleges of the
                        state.23
            
            At one time Deam considered the preparation of similar books on the sedges and the ferns, but these
                    plans had to be abandoned. He 
                  
                     23 See Appendix 1 for a bibliography of Deam's major
                        works.
               
                     also collected notes and photographs in preparation for a
                    biographical treatise on the early botanists of Indiana. The plan was to present a full page
                    portrait of each person with data on his life and work and with special reference to his motivation
                    for becoming a botanist. Realizing that he could never accomplish all that he had planned, and
                    feeling that all his effort should be concentrated on the completion of the Flora of
                        Indiana, he turned this biographical material over to Ray C. Friesner, chairman of the
                    Department of Botany at 
                        Butler
                     University, who was working on the history at the time of his death in 1952.
            Deam's monumental work, the Flora of Indiana, published in 1940, bringing
                    together all the available information on the vascular plants of the state, includes 1,838 species
                    regarded as native to the state and 302 adventive species. To these are added 292 varieties and 93
                    forms. The total number of genera represented is 690. In accumulating this information Deam
                    examined, in many public and private herbaria besides his own, 84,584 specimens representing 170
                    collectors. As a reflection of his critical evaluations we note that he excludes from the list 707
                    species or varieties reported by others but for which no verifying specimens could be found. The Flora has no illustrations except the distribution maps which give detailed
                    citations of specimens. Except in a few critical instances the species are not described, but this
                    shortcoming is partially offset by detailed keys. There are also numerous notes of special human
                    interest. In spite of such limitations as it has, the book is a landmark in the botanical literature
                    of the Midwest. Its wide use in schools and by professional plant taxonomists exhausted the edition
                    long ago, but a reprint is now promised by a commercial publisher.24
            
            Deam would not have liked the idea of a facsimile reprint of the book so long after its original
                    publication. He was far from satisfied with it before it first left the press, and he saw many ways
                    in which it could even then have been improved, to say nothing of the changes which would be made
                    necessary by further research. In a concluding paragraph of the book he points to studies yet to be
                    made and emphasizes the fact that the plant life of an area is a constantly changing thing. He poses
                    the specific question of what a further study, say twenty-five years after the publication of his
                    book, would reveal. Those twenty-five years and many more have already passed, and the question is
                    still waiting for an answer.
            Deam lived and worked in the beginning of a turbulent period of plant taxonomy in which botanists
                    have been attempting to nail down some sort of definition of those entities known as species. His
                    letters, and especially some of his oral comments, reflect the questions running 
                  
                     24 The reprint is to be published by Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., 
                                New York
                            .
               
                    
                    
                  LINE DRAWING BY PAUL WEATHERWAX USED TO ILLUSTRATE CHARLES C. DEAM'S BOOK, GRASSES OF INDIANA.
                  Reproduced from Charles C. Deam, Grasses of Indiana (Division of Forestry,
                            Indiana Department of Conservation, Publication 82; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1929), 323.
               
                    
                    
                  LINE DRAWING BY PAUL WEATHERWAX USED TO ILLUSTRATE CHARLES C. DEAM'S BOOK, GRASSES OP INDIANA.
                  Reproduced from Charles C. Deam, Grasses of Indiana (Division of Forestry,
                            Indiana Department of Conservation, Publication 82 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1929), 86.
               
                     through his mind about the dividing lines, if there are any,
                    between species. One prevalent idea, dating back to the days of Linnaeus25 or
                    earlier, had been that a plant species was simply a botanist's concept, a described entity, or, in practical terms, a pigeon hole in a cabinet in which herbarium
                    specimens could be stored. The inception of this idea lay far back in history in the dogma of a
                    special creation. What the botanist was trying to find and describe was the identity of each
                    specially created entity. A variety was some sort of deviation from this
                    concept–a category which did not exactly fit the original concept–and a form was a deviant from the type specimen which still conformed with the original
                    description. In fact, there are evidences that in earlier times specimens which did not fit the
                    original concept were thrown away or destroyed because they were regarded as abnormal and not truly
                    representing the species. Toward the end of the nineteenth century the rise of the doctrine of
                    organic evolution began to have an erosive effect on this idea of the species, but plant taxonomy,
                    firmly anchored to its type specimens, remained a conservative discipline, only slowly yielding to
                    this new pressure. Deam knew what was happening, but what was he to do about it in dealing with the
                    flora of Indiana? A few poignant excerpts from his letters to me while he was working on the many
                    problems will point to his quandary.
            September, 1927, writing about the grass genus Agrostis: "I suppose if all these plants were
                    nice Sunday School boys I would lose interest in them, but it seems they are all Jesse Jameses.
                    Guess it is I rather than the specimens."
            July, 1928: "Personally I do not like varieties at all. I had a nice talk with Trelease26 on this species business, and especially of having enough dope in the key to
                    run the specimen at hand into the right species. He says the way should be marked so that one will
                    not get off the track, even if explanatory notes are added. This is a happy conclusion since he
                    published his monograph on the oaks. I am still in doubt about some I have which I can not name by
                    his monograph keys."
            February, 1930, referring to a European publication: "Talk about refining botany. See what
                    they do to Alopecurus pratensis. 12 vars. and 7 sub. var. Guess that is naming individual
                    specimens."
            February, 1932: "Have been working up my Asters I collected in 1931. This genus is no genus
                    at all. It is just a mess of Asters."
            April, 1933: "We are now busy at Ranunculus. I now have the 
                  
                     25 Carolus Linnaeus was an eighteenth century Swedish physician and
                            botanist who established the method of classifying flowering plants on the basis of flower
                            structure. He was largely instrumental in the formulation of the binary system of naming
                            plants and animals.
                  
                     26 William Trelease was professor of botany at the University of
                                    
                        Illinois, Champaign
                     -
                                Urbana
                            . He published extensively on the oak genus (Quercus).
               
                     very last of em cornered and for the life of me I do not know
                    if we have several species or many forms of one species. I have known for many years that we had a
                    big assortment of this group and I have assiduously collected but failed to make the notes I should
                    have. Possibly if the group were subjected to cultivation the question could be answered. The genus
                    is one with many fluctuations and for that reason I forbear dividing into taxonomic
                    groups."
            In a letter written in February, 1934, he discusses at some length the occurrence and status of
                    natural hybrids and wonders if there is any relation between the phylogenetic age of genera and the
                    number of hybrids. He notes that there are some hybrids in ferns and thinks there may be more not
                    yet described. There are some in Potamogeton and many in Carex. Are there not any in grasses? The
                    orchids apparently have few or none, although many have been produced by horticulturists. There are
                    many in Salix, a few in Populus, some in Carya and many in Quercus, several in the Rosaceae and
                    Leguminosae. The Compositae present many questions.
            May, 1937: "If I have another attack of Helianthus, I am a dead one. I am not sure I shall
                    survive this one. Last night I came across a nondescript. Say man how I hate them. Doubtless
                    sometimes you wish to call someone a mean name. Well I have found it. Just call him a sunflower.
                    That combines all that is needed. The brutes have no principals, guided by no laws, and seem to be
                    free for alls."
            November, 1938, after discussing the green and glaucous forms of Elymus virginicus
                    (wild rye) : "I used to think I had a ‘lead’ when such a difference
                    showed up but since the advent of chromosomes, genes, et al. I give up. And now since they tease the
                    chromosomes and genes with colchicine and electricity which sets them crazy how are we to tell when
                    a plant has not been kicked in the rear with some electric charge and made irresponsible?
                    … Now the ‘higher ups’ in botany have taken the subject entirely
                    out of the hands of the amateur, except he can yet dig, preserve, and record data on
                    plants."
            Writing from Sebring, 
                        Florida
                    , in 1945, and puzzling over some of the problems presented by the alders and hickories:
                    "I know there will be questions to answer a century from now. May be something like the
                    ‘corn’ problem."
            In considering many genera such as Quercus (oaks), Fraxinus (ashes), Carya (hickories), Helianthus
                    (sunflowers), and Ranunculus (buttercups) he puzzled endlessly over specimens which seemed to be
                    intermediate between described species and tried to find infallible characteristics which could be
                    used in placing them. It was only as a last resort that he would yield to a growing body of evidence
                    and admit that they might be hybrids. His reservations on this point appear as follows in one
                    letter: "You may know I am ‘aginst’ this  hybrid business. While it is a fact that plants do hybridize yet I fear
                    we call aberrant specimens hybrids when they are only ‘off
                        brands’."27
            
            In his declining years we see his trend toward the conclusion that a new and provocative era of plant
                    systematics was at hand but that it was not for him. It involved a new philosophy and new techniques
                    for which he had neither the training nor the temperament and certainly not the physical energy nor
                    the time. So he chose what was for him surely the right course–to round out his days as
                    the old time amateur–to dig and preserve and to record the data, placing a few last
                    stones in the solid foundation on which the new taxonomy was rising.
            Like almost any other human enterprise Deam's work on the Indiana flora has been the object
                    of some adverse criticism. A part of this is hardly more than an expression of the age old prejudice
                    that "he did not do it the way I would have done it." Some have criticized his
                    homespun vocabulary and erratic syntax, but his meaning is usually clear. The sharpest comments have
                    come from those who have asked why he limited himself to Indiana. What, they ask, is so magic about
                    Indiana? Are not most of these same plants found also in other states, and might not a broader scope
                    have given a more accurate picture of taxonomic principles ? Such questions reveal a basic
                    misunderstanding of what he was driving at. His main interest was not in formal principles of
                    taxonomy but in plants–plants of Indiana. It was far more a matter of vegetational
                    geography and history than one of theoretical taxonomy. And in carrying out this principal aim he
                    has to his credit a masterly achievement.
            The announcement in 1931 of the purchase of the Deam herbarium by Indiana University came as a mild
                    surprise to many botanists of the state. It had been known for some time that he wished to see it
                    placed during his lifetime where it would be properly maintained and used, but even members of the
                    botanical staff at the university were only vaguely aware that the deal was being made. David M.
                    Mottier, who was head of the Department of Botany at that time, was always wary about such
                    negotiations, partly because of fear that someone else might undermine his efforts and partly
                    because he doted on dramatic announcements. Deam offered an apology to me later for not keeping me
                    informed, but that was one of Mottier's stipulations in early stages of the negotiations.
            Why Mottier wished to acquire the herbarium was a mystery to some who knew of his interests and
                    prejudices. He had very little appreciation of the type of taxonomy involved and had never favored
                    the promotion of a strong program in systematic botany. And he had many times been nettled by some
                    of Deam's caustic comments. 
                  
                     27 Deam to Daniel DenUyl, Purdue University, September 14,
                        1947.
               
                     For many years Mottier had taught in the summer session of the
                    university a course about trees, and he had been troubled in trying to use Deam's books on
                    trees and shrubs. He had adapted simple keys to the point where they could be used to identify
                    individual trees on the campus, but he was disturbed by Deam's verbose descriptions
                    designed to deal with the species in their entirety rather than with individual specimens. Why,
                    then, was he interested in acquiring the Deam herbarium? One reason was that Mottier was feeling the
                    effect of a waning professional influence, especially in university circles, and he hoped to bolster
                    his position by pulling off a spectacular stunt. But there was also another reason. He knew that
                    Purdue University also had designs on the herbarium, and here was an opportunity to put one over on
                    Dean Stanley Coulter,28 with whom he had had some unpleasant dealings.
            And where did Deam stand with reference to this situation? In some ways he probably would have
                    preferred that the collection go to 
                        Butler
                     University because that was the one place in the state where at that time his kind of
                    taxonomy was being emphasized. But he doubted Butler's ability to maintain it as he thought
                    it should be maintained. He thought that the resources of the state would be better able to keep it
                    an active and growing enterprise, and he also felt a certain obligation to Dean Coulter of Purdue
                    for the support that Coulter had given him through the Indiana Department of Conservation.29 His final decision hinged on the memory of what may now look like a trivial
                    incident but was to him a serious thing. Having occasion to visit Purdue during the First World War
                    to look up something in the herbarium that Purdue already had, he came upon a scene of taxonomic
                    desecration. An army training unit was housed in the gymnasium in which the herbarium was also
                    stored. The boys in training had discovered the plant collection and found that by laying the
                    mounted specimens face downward on the floor they could pave a clean pathway from the shower room to
                    their living quarters. A rankling memory of this lack of respect for herbarium specimens remained
                    with Deam and tipped the balance away from Purdue as a possible recipient of his plant collection.
            After the deal had been closed for the purchase of the herbarium by Indiana University, there were
                    some embarrassing developments. Deam had hoped to break the news gently to Richard Lieber30 and Coulter, but a leak resulted in a premature announcement. It is probably
                    best to let Deam explain it. On January 10,1932, he wrote to me: "The daily papers contain
                    a write up on the Deam herb. Mottier has 
                  
                     28 Stanley Coulter was dean of the School of Science, Purdue
                            University.
                  
                     29 See below, p. 229.
                  
                     30 Richard Lieber was the first director of the Indiana Department of
                            Conservation. He was largely instrumental in establishing the Indiana state park
                        system.
               
                    
                    
                  PAUL WEATHERWAX VIEWING ONE OF THE SPECIMENS IN THE CHARLES
                            C. DEAM HERBARIUM AT INDIANA UNIVERSITY, 1953.
                  Courtesy Indiana University News and Audio-Visual Services, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     certainly spilt the beans. He promised me faithfully to keep it
                    out of the papers. The 
                        Muncie
                     Star has his picture in it and my name to the picture. People here have called me by
                    phone about it. The Indpls. Star has his picture in paper. Appears he wishes to adv. the Dept. Bot.
                    and himself. O.K. with me, except it gets me in bad with Mr. Lieber and Dean Coulter. I await
                    developments." Apparently developments soon came. On January 13 he again wrote to me:
                    "Re sale of the herbarium to I.U.: I received a short letter from Dean Coulter about it and
                    he is badly hurt over it that it did not go to Purdue U. But it is the matter of his against my
                    judgment."
            The sale of the herbarium to the university was made on an "open end" contract. The
                    consideration of ten dollars per hundred sheets was definite, but the total number of specimens was
                    only approximately indicated as about 60,000 because no one knew the exact number. Payment was to be
                    made piecemeal as Deam completed his study of each group in writing the Flora and
                    released the specimens to the university. The loose item in the contract was soon to cause some
                    concern to at least one administrator in the university when it was noted that Deam continued to
                    collect plants and add them to the herbarium. What sort of a "pig in a poke" had
                    the university agreed to buy? From Deam's point of view, if he ever gave it a thought, this
                    was simply a matter of enriching the herbarium and not at all a scheme for increasing the total
                    purchase price. The whole matter was resolved when it was pointed out that the total increase in
                    cost would be negligible and that the university was really getting more than it bargained for.
                    Where else could significantly selected specimens, skillfully prepared, with the cost of materials
                    included, be purchased at ten cents per sheet?
            After the sale of the herbarium to the university it was logical that Deam's botanical
                    library follow it. The two were closely knit together as one unit since most of the books had some
                    definite relation to the flora of the state. The library also included long runs of several
                    periodicals of which the university had only incomplete sets, and many of the items bore
                    Deam's marginal corrections or other notes. As he had purchased the books over a long
                    period, he had carefully noted the cost of each item, and he offered to sell the entire lot at what
                    he had paid for them. Because of obsolescence some of them were worth less than the original cost,
                    but some were becoming rare and were worth much more than he had paid. The deal was closed in 1944.
            Although Deam was very much in favor of having the library go with the herbarium, he was not
                    completely happy with the result. It had been his dream that the library would be housed intact in
                    the same room with the herbarium, or at least nearby, so that it could be used as he had used it,
                    and he was very much disturbed to find that  all of it except a
                    collection of reprints and other pamphlets was incorporated in the general library of the
                    university. He was little consoled by the fact that most of the books ultimately found their way
                    into the biological library, housed in the same building with the herbarium, and that the loss of
                    convenience was more than offset by the technical library services. He was continually worried for
                    fear that some of his highly prized leather bindings would not be periodically oiled and cared for
                    as he had cared for them. When he had occasion to borrow back one agricultural bulletin, which he
                    had given to the university because it had cost him nothing, he was exasperated to find that it had
                    been bound in a volume with other bulletins extraneous to the Indiana flora, making a tome which he
                    found hard to hold and on which he had to pay more postage than the bulletin was worth.31 He gave no thought to the problems of a large library where much of the
                    detail is necessarily delegated to personnel not fully acquainted with the history of the individual
                    items in their care. The fact is, both the library and the herbarium are now well organized and
                    cared for and readily accessible to anyone having a serious interest in them.
            FORESTER AND CONSERVATIONIST
            When the Middle West was first settled by Americans near the end of the eighteenth century, Indiana
                    had one of the finest growths of hardwood forests to be found anywhere in the 
                        United States
                    . But there were far more trees than could immediately be used for lumber, and trees
                    stood in the way of agriculture. For many years, therefore, "clearing" the land to
                    make way for farming was a commendable activity although it was a wasteful one. Following the Civil
                    War a reaction set in, and the great value of the remaining stands of timber slowly came to be
                    appreciated. By the year 1875 a considerable interest had developed not only in saving what remained
                    but also in reforestation, especially on rough or worn out farm lands. But, in spite of the warning
                    of conservationists, the slaughter of the timber continued.32
            
            Along with the movement toward conservation came the idea of tax exemption for productive forest
                    lands, and in 1899 the first bill tending in this direction was passed by the Indiana General
                        Assembly.33 This proved to be an unsatisfactory law, but it marked a 
                  
                     31 Deam to T. E. Shaw, Purdue University, July 10, 11, 1951; Deam to
                            Ernest J. Palmer, Webb City, 
                                Missouri
                            , July 11, 1951; Deam to E. L. Craig, Indiana University Library, July 13, 1951.
                  
                     32 For further details on the history of forestry in Indiana see W. C.
                            Bramble, ed., Forestry and Conservation in Indiana (
                                West Lafayette
                            , 1965).
                  
                     33 Indiana, Laws (1899), 570-71.
               
                     beginning. It was followed in 1905 by legislation designed to
                    prevent fires in forested areas.34
            
            By the beginning of the twentieth century general alarm was felt about the rapidly disappearing
                    forests, and in 1901 provision was made for the Indiana State Board of Forestry.35 It was fortunate for the cause that Dean Coulter of Purdue University was a member of the
                    first board appointed. He was then, and continued to be, a strong supporter of the conservation
                    movement. He was also well acquainted with Deam, knew of his interest in forestry, and had high
                    regard for his abilities at a time when he was still not well known in the state. Coulter's
                    recommendation of Deam for the position of secretary of the Board of Forestry and acting state
                    forester carried so much weight that when Deam was interviewed for the position by Governor Thomas
                    R. Marshall, the only question asked was with regard to his political affiliation. His reply that he
                    was a Democrat was sufficient, and the appointment was made in 1909.
            Deam was not reappointed by Governor Samuel Ralston in 1913, and a possible reason therefor was
                    disclosed in Deam's own account of an incident which had occurred during the latter part of
                    the 
                        Marshall
                     administration. A request had come from the governor's office for certain
                    information about the secretarial help in the forester's office.36
                    Deam's answer revealed his unique brand of political tact: "I have your letter
                    asking for a list of the ladies of this office whose parents are democrats. I do not know the
                    purpose of such an inquiry and beg to learn if this is official business. I have never made
                    inquiries of the politics of the parents of our stenographers but if by law I am compelled to do so
                    I shall proceed at once to make the necessary inquiry. If this is political business, I can not
                    regard your letter other than an impudent one."37
            
            By 1917 the political picture had changed. The new governor, James P. Goodrich, was a Republican, but
                    the conservation movement was gaining such momentum under the vigorous leadership of Coulter and
                    Lieber that politics was pushed into the background. Lieber, who had an independent income, declined
                    his salary of $1,800 per year as secretary of the State Board of Forestry and asked that
                    it be used to appoint a qualified state forester. Deam was again appointed and continued to serve in
                    this position until his retirement in 1928.
            In 1903 the state of Indiana purchased 2,000 acres of poor farm land in 
                        Clark County
                    . This land, a part of the original George Rogers Clark grant, laid the foundation for
                    experimental reforestation in the 
                  
                     34
                            Ibid. (1905), 64-65.
                  
                     35
                            Ibid. (1901), 62-63.
                  
                     36 Elliott R. Hooten, Indiana State Bureau of Inspection, to Deam,
                            September 17, 1912.
                  
                     37 Deam to Elliott R. Hooten, September 20, 1912.
               
                     Hoosier State and paved the way for Deam's early work
                    in forestry. His detailed records of the early stages of this experiment, published in the annual
                    reports of the State Board of Forestry, did much toward shaping a policy at a time when, in this
                    country, there were few precedents to follow in reforestation. One forester states that these annual
                    reports might well be required reading today for foresters of the central hardwood region.38
            
            Deam's work on the 
                        Clark County
                     project, near Henryville, began soon after his initial appointment as forester in 1909
                    and continued until his retirement in 1928 except for the four year period when his tenure was
                    interrupted. During the early years of this work there was some speculation about the kinds of trees
                    best suited for use in reforestation, one theory being that the species which were originally there
                    would be best, the other that something was to be said for crop rotation. Coulter and Deam
                    maintained that the latter view might have some merit, and some extensive plantings of properly
                    selected conifers were made in areas originally covered by hardwoods. The wisdom of this guess is
                    reflected in the success of subsequent softwood plantings.
            Much was done to stabilize policies by the establishment of the Indiana Department of Conservation in
                        1919.39 Under the strong, if at times dictatorial, leadership of Lieber, the
                    department got off to a good start, and Deam's work was permitted to continue without
                    political or other interference until his retirement.
            One accomplishment in which Deam played a prominent part was the passage of an improved forest tax
                    classification act by the General Assembly in 1921. It replaced the unworkable act of 1899. The new
                    law provided for a contract between the state and the landowner for what was practically complete
                    tax exemption on approved forest lands. For classification the area had to be approved by the state
                    forester. The owner agreed to prevent grazing and fire damage, but there was no restriction on the
                    harvesting of timber. The area was also subject to periodical inspection to see that the terms of
                    the agreement were being carried out.40 This has proved to be generally a good
                    law. It placed Deam in the position of propagandist for good forest management, and as he traveled
                    over the state or tended exhibits at the state fair, he continually urged farmers to maintain
                    woodlots. These duties as state forester also gave Deam an excellent opportunity to carry on his
                    studies on the flora of the state, and in the sixteen years of his service in this capacity much of
                    his plant collecting was done. In carrying out this double role Deam kept detailed accounts of how
                    his time was spent and made sure that his responsibility 
                  
                     38 Bramble, Forestry and Conservation in Indiana,
                            11.
                  
                     39 Indiana, Laws (1919), 375-92.
                  
                     40
                            ibid. (1921), 567-74.
               
                     to the state was completely fulfilled. When he found it
                    necessary to travel at state expense, he made a practice of never taking the best room or the most
                    expensive meals at the best hotels, his guide being what he would do if he were traveling at his own
                    expense. This was sometimes a source of annoyance to his assistants who could not see the point of
                    being frugal when the state was paying the bill.
            As the years went by, the science of forestry was undergoing radical changes, and Deam realized that
                    he had neither the training nor the disposition to carry on the work as it should be done. So in
                    1928 he requested that he be relieved of his official duties so that he could devote full time to
                    the work that he liked best. Indiana had no provision for a state botanist, but an imaginative
                    administration of the Indiana Department of Conservation winked at the law and made him research
                    forester with a modest salary and funds for secretarial and other help with the understanding that
                    his time was his own for completing the preparation of the Flora of Indiana.
            
            Deam' philosophy of conservation in the broadest sense might be condensed into the simple
                    principle of leaving the land in as nearly the natural condition as possible consistent with a
                    sensible and frugal use of its resources. He approved of the harvesting of timber for reasonable
                    uses but vigorously opposed the indiscriminate removal of trees for commercial developments of
                    dubious value. He also opposed destructive methods of harvesting trees and the pasturing or burning
                    of woodlands, rationalizing his opposition to grazing in the following words: "Most
                    ‘grass’ in woodland is Carex41 and stock will not eat it.
                    What little grass is there is soon eaten and then animals browse on trees and shrubs. Best
                    species–poplar, oak, ash, linden–go first."42
                    Deam was much opposed to the indiscriminate and irresponsible use of weed killing chemicals along
                    railroads and highways, characterizing this as a method of avoiding hard work and a racket promoted
                    by commercial firms which made a profit from the sale of the spray materials and equipment. His
                    awareness of the pollution of the environment in other ways found frequent expression in his
                    letters, as illustrated by the following example: "It is written in the Bible that Jesus
                    Christ walked on the water; some doubted this but they do not take into consideration [sic] of the 
                        Wabash
                     now."43
            
            When the coal industry turned from deep shaft mines to the shallower deposits suitable for strip
                    mining, Deam joined the chorus of alarm about the effects of this process on the landscape. He was
                    particularly incensed at the action of some coal companies which were taking advantage of his forest
                    tax exemption law by making 
                  
                     41 Carex is a large genus of sedges, a family of plants often confused
                            with the grasses which they resemble.
                  
                     42 Deam to R. D. Carver, 
                                United States
                             Forest Service, April 4, 1943.
                  
                     43 Deam to Daniel DenUyl, July 23, 1951.
               
                     what he regarded as only a token gesture toward planting trees
                    on the strip lands without much direction and with species not suitable for the purpose. Here are
                    some of his comments :
            "Here is the basic problem. Let a few pirates with the money dig into good old mother earth
                    and rob it of all its potential worth for centuries and skip, except the State has a string to them
                    in the way of taxes and now they take the Forestry Law to make a get away. When I wrote the forestry
                    bill I admit this problem never occurred to me. If it had the mine operator would have to have
                    leveled off the ground when it was left and then in due time it might revert to some
                        crop."44
            
            "It is true we need coal but we need food more than we need coal."45
            
            "Now this experiment bears out what I have for a long time contended,–that many
                    abandoned fields can be brought back to producing something besides trees. You know conifers are the
                    succession on abandoned land and that will take about 75 years or more for a crop. Trees of that age
                    will have a low commercial value at that. … Now since we need both man power and food,
                    why not use our waste land for both. When you plant the areas up to the trees you move off the man
                    power. Our abandoned land is a glaring example of the fake of ‘free
                    enterprise’. Free enterprise has robbed the country of its timber and soil fertility. A
                    ‘planned’ 
                        economy
                     would have avoided this. The vogue going about free enterprise is one of the most
                    dangerous propaganda we have ever had."46
            
            Deam was a pioneer in sounding an alarm about the introduction of plants not native to our area.
                    Sometimes this was only an academic concern, an objection to the "pollution" of
                    the natural flora, but in other instances he was alarmed about the introduction of species which
                    might become bad weeds. He himself was continually making such introductions into his own garden,
                    but he was careful to keep the immigrant plants under control until he was sure that they would not
                    escape and cause trouble. Wild carrot, conef lower, buttercup, a dwarf oriental bamboo, quack grass,
                    and many others took their turn in falling under his curse.
            Long before Johnson grass had attracted much attention in Indiana he issued this warning: "I
                    tell you Johnson grass is going to claim attention in the Lower 
                        Wabash
                     Bottoms area. This year I saw a field that was alive with it and I see no reason why it
                    should not seed in."47 Especially in the southern half of the state
                    farmers can testify today to the accuracy of this unheeded prophecy.
            
               
                  44 Deam to Daniel DenUyl, January 18, 1948.
               
                  45 Deam to Daniel DenUyl, July 25, 1952.
               
                  46 Deam to Daniel DenUyl, August 13, 1943.
               
                  47 Deam to Weatherwax, January 31, 1932.
            
            
            Another weed about which the warning came too late was the Japanese honeysuckle. In reply to an
                    inquiry about this plant he wrote in 1952: "That name is to me the same as a red flag to a
                    bull. I cannot tell you in words how I regard this vine. Your question is does it propagate from
                    seed. I do not believe it does. … I have never heard a good word for it. … All
                    that I can say affirmatively is that it is no good for anything." In concluding this
                    condemnation of the honeysuckle he twice suggests that some of the new
                    "insecticides" might kill it.48
            
            He was equally vehement in passing judgment on the 
                        Canada
                     thistle, but a tour of the northern half of the state today shows the futility of the
                    warning. The efficient seed dispersal of this plant and the difficulty in eradicating it when it is
                    once established make it one of our most persistent weeds.
            Deam's choicest malediction was reserved for the multiflora rose. This prickly shrub was
                    introduced into the 
                        United States
                     from eastern Asia many years ago for use as a ground cover for wildlife, a preventive
                    of soil erosion, and a source of winter food for birds. Deam discounted all these values in
                    comparison with the objectionable characteristics. His feeling about it is obvious in vitriolic
                    statements in his letters:
            "Then this last week another dam thing irritated me. Our State Forester has a million
                    multiflora roses to give away for ‘live fences.’ I wrote the head of the
                    Department of Conservation he need not worry about a tombstone: he will be remembered O.K. by
                    disseminating this pest all over Indiana. I have a sample left here in our arboretum of about 100
                    ft. square and I am sure there are more than a hundred seedlings brought in by Jay birds from 3
                    bushes along the river."49
            
            "Many thanks for your bulletin on the multiflora rose as a hedge plant. I regret to inform
                    you that I differ with your author on the use of this rose as I view it being used in our
                        state."50
            
            "We have three bushes about a block from here and the jay birds get the hips and fly to our
                    arboretum into two zumi crabs and one Toringo crab and peck the hip to get the seed out and eat the
                    pulp. Well under these trees I estimate we have over a hundred seedlings (-3 yrs). Question is who
                    will dig these pests. The members of the Wildlife Society? No, it will have to be Deam."51
            
            "It makes my mouth sore to talk about multiflora rose."52
            
            "I understand they are strongly recommending now that all old 
                  
                     48 Deam to Anna D. Leatherman, University of 
                                Tennessee
                            , July 29, 1951. Leatherman had written to Deam inquiring about the honeysuckle.
                  
                     49 Deam to H. H. Bartlett, University of 
                                Michigan
                            , January, 1952.
                  
                     50 Deam to J. R. Longwell, University of 
                                Missouri
                            , October 29, 1950.
                  
                     51 Deam to 
                                Wisconsin
                             Department of Conservation, July 22, 1951, requesting a copy of a bulletin on
                            the multiflora rose.
                  
                     52 Deam to Ralph Wilcox, Indiana state forester, September 23,
                        1950.
               
                     cemeteries be planted with multiflora rose. When Gabriel sounds
                    his horn I am afraid some will be stranded and not be able to get through the roses. Please do not
                    recommend the multiflora rose except for the bonfire."53
            
            PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES
            At the height of his activity Deam held membership in more than twenty professional societies,
                    including the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the Botanical Society of America,
                    the Indiana Audubon Society, five or six state academies of science, and several organizations
                    dealing with specialized aspects of botany. As a regular attendant at the meetings of many of these
                    he held offices, worked on committees, and contributed to scientific programs.
            He was best known to Indiana scientists, and his type of support was best exemplified, by his
                    activities in the Indiana Academy of Science. As an officer (editor of Proceedings
                    in 1912, president in 1924) or committee member he could always be counted on for positive and
                    constructive suggestions. Knowing the state remarkably well, he was usually present as a leader in
                    the spring field meetings.
            From about 1899 until near the end of his life he was recognized as the unofficial clearing agency
                    for information about vascular plants new to the state and extensions of the ranges of those
                    previously known. His rigorous requirements as to identification, collection data, and voucher
                    specimens gave to his twenty or more annual or biennial reports, published in the Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science, an inestimable value as records of what was
                    happening to the flora of the state.
            He had an especially friendly and sympathetic attitude toward promising younger botanists, frequently
                    reminding them of rich opportunities to participate in the field studies basic to sound taxonomy and
                    ecology. And he was always hopeful of finding disciples to carry on this work. On the other hand he
                    preached a rigorous discipline and could be viciously critical of sloppy, careless, or dishonest
                    work.
            On one occasion when it had been suggested that the Indiana Academy of Science invite a similar
                    academy of a neighboring state to a joint meeting, Deam questioned the wisdom of such action,
                    explaining his stand in the following words in a letter to an officer of the academy:
            "There are two sides to it. If we invite in strangers our members are under obligations to
                    entertain visitors or at least give them attention, probably to the neglect of our own members. Here
                    is the 
                  
                     53 Deam to Daniel DenUyl, July 25, 1952.
               
                     way it would work, the old wheelhorses like you and I who have
                    an acquaintance outside of the state would be morally obligated to give visitors attention. Well at
                    the same time we may have young Ind. members and we scuttle them which is not just right.
                    … Of course old maids and old batchelors would welcome the opportunity to meet up with
                    people outside our state."54
            
            At another time, when the editor of the Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of
                    Science had rejected for publication a rambling paper submitted by a senile member, and Dean
                    Coulter, in opposition to the editor's action, had expressed the fear that the academy had
                    "gone to pot" and might as well be allowed to die, Deam outlined a course of
                    action for infusing new life into it. He concluded with these words: "Let us show the Dean
                    that the Acad, will not die with the Coulters, 
                        Butler
                    , Blatchley, etc."55
            
            At his suggestion, and with the endorsement of the academy, the Indiana General Assembly had once
                    designated the tulip tree as the state flower. Later, when objection to this action was raised by a
                    few individuals and clubs because few people had ever seen the flowers of this tree and generally
                    thought of the plant as a tree rather than a flower, the
                    legislature had rescinded its action, naming the tulip poplar as the state tree
                    and the zinnia as the state flower. This was generally regarded by botanists as a ridiculous action
                    since the zinnia was not native to the state and grew there only in cultivation, and it was
                    suspected that commercial interests had been largely responsible for thus recognizing the zinnia.
                    Deam's reaction to the whole episode was to request the academy to "pass a
                    resolution that the state flower be changed from the zinnia to some flower native to Indiana and
                    that we resent to be compelled to take our hats off to a Mexican flower."56
            
            He regularly attended the meetings of the botanical section of the academy and for the sake of the
                    few items on Indiana flora which he might pick up suffered through parts of the program which he
                    little understood and in which he had little interest. As far back as 1926 or 1927 those members of
                    the academy interested in plant taxonomy had been holding an informal session just preceding or just
                    following the regular winter meetings. As interest in these sessions grew and the regular botanical
                    sessions were becoming too long for best results, there was increased pressure for a separate
                    section on plant taxonomy. Deam gave vigorous support to this movement, and in a series of letters
                    to others with similar interests he outlined a plan which, when later implemented, gave rise to the
                    current very 
                  
                     54 Deam to Weatherwax, April 9, 1929.
                  
                     55 Deam to Weatherwax, April 1, 1933. The references are to John M.
                            and Stanley Coulter, Amos W. Butler, and Willis S. Blatchley, prominent members of the
                            academy in earlier days.
                  
                     56 Deam to Weatherwax, n.d. The academy passed a resolution to this
                            effect in 1948.
               
                     successful taxonomic section. In one letter urging this action
                    he let drop the following lucid self-evaluation: "Please let me be in the background as
                    much as possible at this meeting. I do not make a good impression on the hearers. I get so earnest I
                    appear to be mad which is not the case at all; so you, Cain, and Friesner be the big
                    shots." He also mentioned a few others who should not be allowed to throw the discussion
                    off the track and suggested that we "muzzle as far as possible" one member who was
                    known for excessive self-plagiarism. He concluded the same letter with this terse direction:
                    "Welcome anyone who will talk to the point and not repeat."57
            
            One interesting outgrowth of this movement toward more emphasis on plant taxonomy had been foreseen
                    by many of us from the beginning, and it soon took shape as a series of late summer field trips to
                    various suitable spots in the state. These meetings were very informal; there was no program and no
                    organization except an itinerary prepared by someone well acquainted with the area to be visited.
                    Unfortunately, no records of attendance were kept, but most botanists of the state who were
                    interested in plants in the field took part in one or more of the forays. The limitations imposed on
                    travel during the war years following 1940 caused these activities to be suspended, and they have
                    not been resumed.
            THE GARDEN
            When the Deams bought the six acre tract just east of Bluff ton in 1903 and built the house there,
                    plans were made for developing a part of the area as an informal garden. In later years Deam always
                    spoke of this as the arboretum, but his plantings were by no means limited to trees. Nor did he
                    restrict the plantings to species native to Indiana. Any plant which looked interesting and seemed
                    to require further observation might find at least a temporary place among the five hundred or more
                    species which he usually had growing there.
            The garden showed little arrangement designed for artistic effect, and there was usually little
                    attempt to group the plants according to natural relationships. When a new plant was obtained, it
                    was simply set in some vacant spot which seemed suitable for it. Although small, the garden provided
                    a good range of habitats. A part of it had once been an old brickyard, but the surface layer of soil
                    was scraped away and replaced with good topsoil approximately neutral in reaction. The part near the
                    house was high and well drained, and from there it sloped downward toward the Wabash
                    River, with the lowest part subject to inundation at times.
            
               
                  57 Deam to Weatherwax, October 27, 1932. Stanley Cain is professor of
                        conservation, University of 
                     Michigan,
                                Ann Arbor
                  . Prior to his appointment
                        there he taught at the 
                            Indianapolis
                         College of Pharmacy, 
                            Butler
                         University, Indiana University, and the University of 
                     Tennessee, Nashville
                  .
            
            
            
               MR. AND MRS. DEAM IN
                            FRONT OF THEIR ARBORETUM, C.
                    1939.
            
            
               MR. AND MRS. DEAM AND
                            DAUGHTER, ROBERTA (MRS. ARTHUR I. ORTENBURGER), JUNE 14,
                    1943.
            
            
            In the early years of the project each planting was marked by a short stake bearing a suitable label,
                    but need for a better system of recording soon became evident. A small child, a member of a family
                    who had come for a visit, wandered away in the garden and came back to the house carrying an armful
                    of these label stakes. After this, a system of quadrates was devised to supplement the less
                    dependable labels. Each accession to the garden was also recorded on a card, and notes were added
                    from time to time as a commentary on what was happening. If a plant died, as many of them did, its
                    card was transferred to another file which came to be known as the morgue.
            Many of the plants were grown for only a few years, long enough for the observation of aberrant
                    characteristics or for determining their economic or taxonomic significance. Others, especially the
                    trees and shrubs, were to remain there permanently. To one friend who had sent Deam some tree
                    seedlings he wrote: "Seedlings came in excellent conditions and planting conditions fine. I
                    did the job myself with my little spade. I heard one little seedling say, ‘I'm
                    glad they sent me to Deam because if I had been sent to some farmer, I would have been sawed up when
                    I reached my prime but they tell me Deam will keep me until I die and will provide an old age
                        pension.’"58
            
            The care of the garden was a never ending task and one that could not be delegated to anyone without
                    close supervision. Consequently, he and Mrs. Deam did most of the spade work. Weeds had to be
                    removed to give the less vigorous plants a chance to grow, and many of the more aggressive species
                    which were brought in threatened to become weeds themselves and had to be held in check. Seeds of
                    the more troublesome weeds were regularly harvested and destroyed. This practice also provided an
                    abundance of seeds which were used in an extensive exchange with other botanists in various parts of
                    the world. Walnuts, hickory nuts, and acorns were faithfully picked up each autumn and often
                    distributed to school children with directions for planting. In this connection I was once drafted
                    to umpire a spirited argument between the Deams as to which end of a walnut should be placed
                    downward in planting it. The best I could do was to note that when a walnut fell from the tree or
                    was buried by a squirrel, its orientation was a matter of chance, with no effect on its functioning.
            For several years before his death Deam realized that the garden was getting out of control, and what
                    was to become of it when he was gone became a constant worry. Late in 1952, when sending a hybrid
                    plant of Eupatorium (joe pye weed) to the 
                        Missouri
                     Botanical Garden, he wrote to Edgar Anderson, director of the garden: "You are
                    now custodian of this hybrid. Since I am 87 and in feeble health and 
                  
                     58 Deam to Daniel DenUyl, April 4, 1933.
               
                     at my death our present home will go to the highest bidder when
                    my embryonic arboretum and plant garden will go to some stranger. My daughter and her three young
                    men are now in 
                        Okla
                    . and neither are interested in plant life, I feel it imperative and obligatory to find
                    this hybrid a good home."59
            
            A part of what he feared has happened. It would have been almost impossible to have prevented it. The
                    garden was characteristically a part of Deam, and there was no other Deam to take over the task of
                    maintenance. The present owner, Clifton Baumgartner, and the older people of Bluffton who knew Deam
                    appreciate him and his work, but the question is what best to do with the garden. To restore the
                    wilderness that it now is to anything like the condition in which Deam kept it would require an
                    enormous amount of work under close supervision by someone familiar with the plants and capable of
                    interpreting Deam's original notes, which, fortunately, have been kept. Botanists who know
                    something of its history still find the garden a fascinating place, and what has happened as the
                    many species have competed for space poses an interesting ecological problem for anyone competent to
                    read the story in the plants that have survived.
            ON EDUCATION
            Like many others who have little understanding of the aims and methods of modern education and no
                    contact with or responsibility for the operation of its machinery, Deam had some very definite
                    opinions about its defects. Like many others also, he had what seemed to him some very simple
                    solutions for its complex problems. From his brief experience as a country school teacher near
                    Bluffton immediately after his graduation from high school in 1884, the main tangible accomplishment
                    that he usually recalled was his success in staying where three of his predecessors had been run out
                    by unruly boys, and that to attain this eminence he had "licked four boys," two of
                    them bigger than he was.
            His main basis for passing judgment on the schools during his later active years was his occasional
                    contacts with high school boys who worked for him or with students of biology who visited his garden
                    from time to time to make leaf collections. Of one such visit he says: "They came to
                    collect leaves (for what I can not find out except for biology which I am not able to
                        interpret)."60 The fact is, he never made much of an attempt to
                    find out what it was all about and did not capitalize on the opportunity to give constructive help
                    to his guests but preferred to badger them about their ignorance of plant taxonomy. Granting that
                    the making of such leaf collections is sometimes 
                  
                     59 Deam to Edgar Anderson, December 8, 1952.
                  
                     60 Deam to Weatherwax, September 23, 1943.
               
                     little more than aimless busy work, we cannot overlook his
                    failure to turn such visits into excellent opportunities for leadership in worthwhile educational
                    experiences. His continual sniping at athletics and other school activities built a barrier to any
                    fruitful understanding that might have developed between him and these young visitors. In one letter
                    he says: "Wife is at home sick today. I telephoned the girl we have to drop in and chore
                    around and she said she could not come as she was ‘in a play’ and she had to
                        practice."61 The quotes around "in a play" were
                    an eloquent expression of his contempt for what he regarded as foolishness.
            In a letter written in March, 1934, he let go one of his many violent diatribes against competitive
                    athletics in the schools: "Our schools are saturated with athletics which for the most part
                    are the skidway to hell. Can you remember the old fashion spelling schools? People got just as much
                    interest in them as in basket ball and I am certain the net results were much better. If we must
                    have physical competition, let me see who can dig the longest ditch in the shortest time. I am
                    strong for physical education but a deadly foe to competitive athletics."62 This bitterness about school athletics appears frequently in his letters, often in ways
                    unrelated to what he is writing about. For this extreme attitude I can think of two plausible
                    reasons. The first is that he had little effective contact with high school or college students and
                    made no effort to find any good in the recreational values of organized sports, condemning the whole
                    system for its imagined evils without giving it a fair hearing. The second explanation is a bit more
                    subtle but particularly characteristic of Deam. Many times when he had tried to get school boys to
                    work for him in his garden on Saturdays during the autumn months, the boys had been busy playing
                    football or attending games, and any such activity which would keep them away from an opportunity to
                    earn some money and at the same time learn something about systematic botany could be nothing less
                    than evil. In a fit of exasperation about this competition he wrote in September, 1950:
                    "The weeds have taken over. Dam the athlet[ic]s and street fair."63
            
            His violent condemnation of athletics made an occasional lapse of principle all the more humorous.
                    Visiting him once on the day after he had been miraculously lured to one of the night games of a
                    state basketball tournament, I found him again boiling with indignation, this time not at the evils
                    of athletics in general but at the raw deal that the home team had received from the officials.
            Deam's views about college courses in the biological sciences, especially botany, were
                    distorted by his lack of comprehension of them 
                  
                     61 Deam to Weatherwax, April, 1929.
                  
                     62 Deam to Weatherwax, March 10, 1934.
                  
                     63 Deam to Weatherwax, September, 1950.
               
                     and his own prejudices about what was most important. To him an
                    ideal text for college botany would have been a modernized version of Asa Gray's old Lessons in Botany, a book widely used almost a century ago.64
                    The most important thing about a plant was its scientific name, next came its economic values, and
                    other features would be included only insofar as they contributed to these major considerations. No
                    one would deny that these matters are important, but Deam was little aware of the growth of the
                    science and the evolution of interest in it. His comment on a very successful elementary college
                    text is illuminating: "In this mail I got Sinnott's 3rd ed of his botany.65 Sinnot is a good man and his book no doubt represents the modern presentation
                    of botany, O.K. for training of college profs, but not for mine run students. Too much stress placed
                    on microscopic forms and none on plants, trees and shrubs we run across every day. So it is still
                    incumbent on you to write a beginners book on botany and get the horse before the cart. Study the
                    anatomy of the human being before you teach vitamines."66
            
            For years he had hounded me to write a series of books embodying his ideas of what botanical
                    education ought to be, and he was elated when he learned that I was working on an elementary text.
                    But before the book was completed, he had begun to have misgivings about it. In May, 1942, he wrote
                    to his friend Charles M. Ek: "Well I see that Weatherwax's new book is advertised.
                    I have sent an order for it as soon as published but no book yet. I suppose it will follow the same
                    old line and taxonomy will be slighted."67 When a complimentary copy
                    was sent to him, his complete silence, except for a brief note of thanks, indicated his
                    disappointment. Some years later, May 30, 1951, he paid the book this left handed compliment when
                    relating his experience with some high school students who had recently visited his garden:
                    "They are studying botany and they use Weatherwax's book. They graduate this year.
                    I interrogated them and in my judgment they know nothing of the subject."68 Our consolation is that the value of any test of knowledge depends a great deal on who
                    makes out the questions.
            Some other assignments which he gave me and which, worthy as they were, I never attempted to carry
                    out, show his train of thought. Here is one, written September 30, 1935: "There is a nice
                    job that should be done and no one can do it but you at least as it should be done. I refer to a key
                    to Ind. grasses in the vegetative state. Not all, but those of economic interest. Of course such a
                    bulletin you 
                  
                     64 Asa Gray, Lessons in Botany and Vegetable
                            Physiology (
                                New York
                            , 1868).
                  
                     65 E. W. Sinnott, Botany: Principles and, Problems
                            (3rd ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1935).
                  
                     66 Deam to Weatherwax, April 15, 1935.
                  
                     67 Deam to Charles M. Ek, May, 1942. Ek was an amateur botanist who
                            lived in 
                                Kokomo
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     68 Deam to W. H. Camp, 
                                Philadelphia
                             Academy of Science, May 30, 1951.
               
                     would expect to come from Poordo Agr. Expt. Sta. but they can
                    not do it."
            Another assignment came, June 23, 1940, shortly after the publication of the Flora of
                        Indiana: "Well here is a suggestion for you. You get busy and get out an
                    illustrated Flora. … I wish someone would start at once to get out some sort of Flora
                    because I feel certain that the present edition of the flora will be exhausted before a new one can
                    be written. It would be a mistake to get out a second edition of this one. The new flora should be
                    illustrated or have descriptive text." This little task has not yet been undertaken by
                    anyone.
            As in his remarks about Sinnott's book Deam often criticized the inclusion of microscopic
                    plants in an elementary course simply because he thought the ordinary student was not going to see
                    them in everyday life. He was tolerant of the fungi insofar as they were used in the production of
                    antibiotics or were of pathological significance to other plants. For the algae he had no use at
                    all. Any study of them was to him a total waste of time for the ordinary student. Any thought that a
                    student might have on seeing a luxuriant growth of seaweed or a pond covered with green algae, or
                    any effect that algae might have on other aquatic life, on water pollution, or on oxygen content of
                    air or water failed to make a dent in his thinking. His lack of concern for comparative morphology
                    or phylogeny is reflected in his comment on a well known classic: "Well I just received
                    Bower's Ferns in 3 vols., $30.00, and I guess I got
                        stung."69 He had expected it to be something which would help him
                    to identify ferns.
            For a long time Deam cherished the hope of training an understudy to continue his work when he was
                    gone, but it proved to be a vain hope. At first he thought that his daughter might be the one. She
                    accompanied him on many of his early field trips and showed much promise, but when she went to
                    college, she found other interests. A neighbor boy selected as an understudy failed a preliminary
                    test when he found a patch of wild raspberries more attractive than taxonomic distinctions. Another
                    boy, getting off to a good start, was advised to go to college to prepare for a career in botany,
                    but he failed to make good during the first semester. Deam never could understand why the typists
                    who worked for him did not appreciate the opportunity to become plant taxonomists like him. One girl
                    being considered for such a position and left to her own resources for an hour or so in his library
                    fell from grace when she was found reading a Sunday newspaper instead of avidly perusing his books
                    on botany.
            Among professional botanists in the state there were some who seemed destined to follow in
                    Deam's footsteps; but he outlived most 
                  
                     69 Deam to Weatherwax, January 31, 1929. F. 0. Bowers, The Ferns (3 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1923).
               
                     of them, and others found their main interests elsewhere. In
                    fact, anyone who worked with him long and kept one eye on what was happening in botany, soon came to
                    the conclusion that the goal of simply becoming another Deam was not attractive. It was one thing to
                    recognize the full value of what he had accomplished and another very different thing to see that
                    his work represented the end of an era in botany.
            MRS. DEAM
            Any account of the life and work of Charles Deam would be incomplete if it did not include a special
                    word about Mrs. Deam. For almost sixty years she shared his interests and activities, and one of her
                    main concerns was to guard his health and surround him with the best conditions for the work that he
                    liked to do. She accompanied him on many of his collecting trips and helped to accumulate, plant,
                    and care for the great variety of botanical materials that filled their garden. Much of the fine
                    technique that went into the preparation and mounting of his herbarium specimens was the work of her
                    hands. She was also involved in the activities of state and local garden clubs and local civic
                    affairs.
            Following the noon and evening meals they regularly observed for many years a modified siesta period
                    during which he rested on a couch and Mrs. Deam read to him from the daily papers or current
                    botanical publications. This spared his eyes for his botanical work, but some of the taxonomic
                    treatises must have made pretty dull reading for her. One room of their house had been specially
                    built for the herbarium, library, and laboratory, and the library eventually overflowed into other
                    rooms and finally into the attic.
            In her desire to guard her husband's health Mrs. Deam became a devotee of many food cults,
                    some of which probably had little scientific basis. The green vegetables which she forced upon him
                    he characterized as "rabbit food." In one instance I saw him balk completely at a
                    salad consisting largely of nearly mature celery leaves which a current fad was giving a high rating
                    for vitamin and mineral content. She also liked to experiment with some plant materials not
                    ordinarily used for food. One visiting botanist, who had been brought up under the influence of an
                    array of folk taboos about allegedly poisonous plants, is said to have spent an anxious half hour or
                    so after being compelled out of courtesy to dispose of a generous helping of one of her pokeberry
                    pies.
            Deam was very fond of certain kinds of candy, and Mrs. Deam thought they were not good for him. In
                    the ensuing contest he used to keep a box of one of his favorite confections hidden behind the books
                    on a certain shelf in the workroom. He would point it out to 
                    guests and invite them to help themselves with the condition that they put the box and the books
                    back in place to protect his secret. She knew about the deception all along, but it made an
                    interesting game and enabled both of them to save face. There was a similar conflict about coffee.
                    He liked it strong and wanted plenty of it and often protested her too generous use of the
                    "pump handle" in making it. She met the problem by using one of the caffein free
                    preparations and making the brew strong. He was fully aware of the substitution but played the game
                    anyhow. Often when I had visited there in the winter and was starting on the long, cold drive
                    homeward, she would slip me a cup of real coffee with the quiet remark that she had been giving us
                    the denatured kind all along and Charlie didn't know the difference.
            Mrs. Deam must have found her husband's erratic actions and ideas very trying at times, but
                    he had an easy explanation of her equanimity: "Well don't take anything I write
                    seriously. That is the reason Mrs. Deam and I get along so well. She thinks to herself, well he is
                    just made that way and he can't help it."70
            
            It was Mrs. Deam who took the notes of personal interest and wrote up the journals of their various
                    travels. She also did her full share in extending a cordial welcome to their many guests, including
                    botanists and state officials who came out of professional interest, school children to make
                    botanical collections in the arboretum, members of garden clubs and civic organizations who came to
                    discuss their projects and to see the extensive display of interesting plants, and a host of others
                    who came simply as interested friends. Their large guest register contained many illustrious names,
                    and there was another, smaller book which more special visitors were invited to sign. Plant
                    taxonomists will especially appreciate the contents of this smaller book. There are twenty-nine
                    names of Deam's close friends in Indiana and forty-two from outside the state.71 Some of those whose names are included have facetiously expressed curiosity
                    as to whether there might be somewhere a still smaller book for an elite.
            Many of the guests came for only brief calls, but others remained for some time to work in the
                    herbarium. Mrs. Deam extended a gracious welcome to all, this often including meals and lodging for
                    several days.
            DEAM, THE MAN
            Deam's life was dominated by an obsession for accuracy, logical order and system, and the
                    full and profitable use of time. There was 
                  
                     70 Deam to W. H. Camp, February 6, 1950.
                  
                     71 This little book is now filed with other historical materials in
                            the Deam Herbarium.
               
                    
                    
                  DEAM AT HIS DESK, BLUFFTON, FEBRUARY, 1952.
               
                     a proper place for everything, and everything must be kept in
                    its place. Idleness was more irksome to him than the most strenuous activity. He did display
                    occasional lapses of this stern self-discipline and sometimes found that rigid adherence to his
                    rules got him into trouble in dealing with other people.
            In the years during which I worked with him I never detected in him any interest in art or music or
                    in literature if it was not instructive. It was a rare thing for him to spend time on anything
                    simply for entertainment or for its aesthetic values. His philosophy on this point is summed up in a
                    letter to DenUyl, May 27, 1947: "So Dan I think you can squeeze in our recent trip to
                    southern Indiana as a period of relaxation and not mere play. Yes we did have a ‘good and
                    fine time.’ I hate this combination of words. I prefer to make it more definite and write
                    we had a ‘profitable excursion’ or some words to that effect. Of course when
                    we drove a hundred miles to see a rare plant and found the area under water, well the net result of
                    this was the experience to control our emotions and not swear."72
            
            In his early years as a druggist, finding that the tension under which he worked was injuring his
                    health, he devised a system of sleeping for short periods during the day. Assuming that the most
                    profitable part of the siesta was the process of relaxing and falling asleep, he saw no point to
                    wasting time with the remainder of the nap. How to wake up at the most profitable time was the
                    problem. Lying down on a cot in a back room of the store, he would hold in his hand, over the side
                    of the cot, an ordinary laundry iron, close his eyes, and begin to count his sheep. When the proper
                    state of relaxation was attained and he was asleep, his hand would release its hold, and the iron
                    would drop. The noise of its fall served as his alarm clock, and he was ready for work again with
                    the minimum loss of time.
            This same urge to keep busy at something worth while led indirectly to the beginning of his study of
                    botany. The story, as I have heard him tell it many times, was something like this. On a winter
                    evening a day or so before Christmas, when the drugstore clerks were all busy and a perfumery
                    salesman was hounding him for attention, a lady asked to look at wallpaper samples. Always ready to
                    accommodate possible customers, Deam got out the sample books and stood ready to take an order while
                    others waited. After a while the lady said she didn't intend to buy anything but was simply
                    killing some time until her husband was ready to go home. At this Deam exploded and expressed in
                    violent terms his opinion of such a waste of time, that is, his time. The
                    salesman, who had seen what was going on, took Deam by the ear and told him that he was sick and had
                    better see a doctor before he lost all his customers and killed himself. The 
                  
                     72 Deam to Daniel DenUyl, May 27, 1947.
               
                     doctor's advice was to take life a little less
                    strenuously and get out for a walk every day. Having paid for this advice, Deam followed
                    instructions to the letter and began to look for ways to turn the prescription to profit. When
                    spring came on, he began to observe the plants along the roads and railroad where he walked.
                    Interest led to picking up a few of the plants, then curiosity about what they were, then Gray's Manual of Botany, and this was the beginning of the Deam
                    herbarium.
            Selections from a few of his letters to me in later years will point to this continuing concern about
                    the full use of time.
            August, 1930: "Make our place a night stop. This way we can visit and not take up daylight
                    which is precious to both of us."
            August, 1938: "Gosh how I want time. All old people do while youngsters seem to have time
                    they do not know what to do with it. … I am so nervous I can scarcely write. I am getting
                    panicky to get so many things off the fire all at once and I want to close all before I take my trip
                    because I may never get back alive." The trip was one of the weekend expeditions of the
                    plant taxonomists of the Indiana Academy of Science. He got back alive and lived for another fifteen
                    years.
            After his years of strenuous activity there came a time when he had to slow down, but he found it
                    difficult to do so gracefully or willingly. I recall one instance in particular. It was on his
                    seventy-fifth birthday, and a small group of us were on one of our late summer botanical excursions
                    in southern Indiana. In the middle of the afternoon Deam surprised all of us with the abrupt
                    announcement that he had "lost his appetite" for collecting and was through for
                    the day. I could recall only one earlier occasion when he was ready to stop before dark. That was in
                    a swamp in northern Indiana when an encounter with two rattlesnakes had also taken away his
                    "appetite" for further botanical activity.
            As we look back at Deam's enormous drive toward the full use of time, it seems to have been
                    not so much a reasoned thing as an innate obsession–a sort of inborn religion. In his
                    later years he recognized this trait and saw its danger, but he seemed to be unable to do anything
                    about it. In a letter written March 20, 1935, he gives this advice: "Now Friesner, do not
                    continue to be foolish, do not work so hard. You have always done it and it is about time to lay
                    off. If you do not you will travel the road I have, Old General Debility will give commands and
                    believe me you will obey. I walked up town today to barber and I was fatigued when I got back. Now
                    you see where I am at. Beware." But he had closed another letter to Friesner a few months
                    earlier with this terse injunction: "Keep busy."73
            
            
               
                  73 Deam to Ray Friesner, March 20, 1935; November 26, 1934.
            
            
            Just as he was leaving for 
                        Florida
                     in the winter of 1938, he offered this bit of wisdom in a letter to me: "Be
                    good and do not overwork like I have. It gets you nowhere. If I can get cooled down while I am gone,
                    when I return, I plan to work but not be stampeded by anyone; but I am so ‘lady
                    like’ I may change my mind."74 When he returned there was no
                    evidence of any change of temperament.
            This aspect of his restlessness reminds us of words which the Hoosier wit, Kin Hubbard, put into the
                    mouth of his famous cartoon character, Abe Martin: "The bee don't deserve all the
                    credit he gets for being busy; he jest can't buzz slow." That was Deam. He was
                    built to buzz fast.
            In his concern about literal accuracy of statement Deam sometimes jousted with windmills. A case in
                    point was his criticism of the well established custom of lumbermen to speak of boards which are
                    three fourths of an inch thick as one inch lumber. Although everybody concerned is fully aware of
                    the facts of the case, to Deam this was not exactly right. Accordingly, when he had the truck body
                    built for his botanical travels, he specified that straight grained ash lumber a full
                        inch thick was to be used. The same sort of specifications, plus a few others reflecting
                    his unique ideas, went into the building of his house. The studdings were to be of white oak
                    measuring a full two by four inches and extending the full height of the two stories. There was
                    apparently no question in his mind about the adequacy of lumber of standard dimensions. It was
                    simply a matter of accuracy of statement. He also specified that the bedrooms of the house were to
                    have windows so placed that they extended almost to the floor. Knowing that, volume for volume,
                    carbon dioxide was heavier than air, he reasoned that if the window sills were higher than the level
                    of a bed, the occupant would be sleeping in a puddle of carbon dioxide; and his purpose was to drain
                    it away by way of the low windows. This line of reasoning ignored some simple facts and gave the
                    rooms a peculiar appearance, but it satisfied his single track misinterpretation of the physical
                    properties of the atmosphere.
            Through the years that I was associated with Deam we discussed a wide range of subjects, but I do not
                    recall a single instance in which any religious point of view or church connection was mentioned. It
                    is recorded in the biography prepared by his daughter that he had become a member of the Six-Mile
                    Christian Church southeast of Bluffton when he was about fifteen years old, and his correspondence
                    reveals a good acquaintance with the Bible, even if he was not averse to twisting a quotation to fit
                    his purpose. Writing to a botanist who had done him some favor, he says: "In the meantime
                    if I have any thing here you can use … the Lord says ask and take a chance on 
                  
                     74 Deam to Weatherwax, winter, 1938.
               
                     receiving."75 In his early days as
                    a drugstore clerk, when his economic status was such that he was able to save eighty dollars in two
                    years, his weekly budget included fifteen cents for Sunday school and church and fifty cents for
                    foreign missions, but a dollar for "something to read."76 He
                    says in one letter: "I was about thirty when I quit going to church and Sunday School. I
                    knew more about the Bible, etc. than my teacher, and I learned nothing so I just quit. Now I go
                    nowhere but to the woods and funerals."77 In his later years, if he had
                    been put on the spot for an expression on the subject, I suspect that his attitude would have been
                    one of indifference–nothing one way or the other with regard to church or religion, just
                    a lack of interest. As far as the ordinary virtues associated with Christianity are concerned, there
                    was never any doubt about his honesty, dependability, or personal integrity; but he was decidedly
                    short on sympathy for the down and out when their status was due to stupidity, wrongdoing, or
                    laziness.
            Deam's deeper feelings on some matters sometimes found expression in his rambling letters as
                    in one written at the end of the war with 
                        Japan
                    : 
                  
                     
                        This celebrating the peace with 
                                        Japan
                                     or rather the end of the War just does not fit in with my nature. In my
                                    life I have had many happy events and was very grateful for them but I have never
                                    yet went and got drunk, yelled like a Comanche, broke in windows turn over autos,
                                    scattered papers and made other people unhappy to show off my
                                    "enthusiasm". According to the radio it is mostly the teen age who
                                    voice their enthusiasm and what have they to crow about, may be now they can get
                                    candy and some duds they have been deprived of. We should be thankful in our hearts
                                    and mind and if we wish to publicize the fact then go to church and join in prayer
                                    with people of like sentiment. No mail today and may be tomorrow but the mail
                                    carriers have substitutes so if it is a holiday they want they could take it
                                    tomorrow. Stores and saloons are closed. Well I am celebrating the event in a
                                    sensible manner. Now here is a little low down on my character, while I appreciate
                                    our superior ability in war, I feel sorry for the vanquished because they thought their cause was as real as we thought ours was. We must
                                    remember that "might" is not always right, although in this war I
                                    think it was. But I tell you there are millions of poor Japanese who will be
                                    compelled to suffer for the bad judgment of their superiors. …
                                    Let's rejoice and effort to teach if only by example that theft, personally
                                    or national is not right. Both 
                                        Germany
                                     and 
                                        Japan
                                     could have bought a "continent" for what they have
                                    had to pay for their conquest. The payment does not cease with the end of the War
                                    but these countries will be paying interest for centuries on lost opportunities.
                                    History tells us that economic invasion precedes army invasion and I do hope the
                                    U.S. will not invade any other country to our detriment. Well I did not intend this
                                    to be a sermon but it does rile me to see the people go crazy. … P.S. One
                                    test of this enthusiasm and patriotism is "How much did you give to the Red
                                        Cross."78
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  75 Deam to H. K. Svenson, American Museum of Natural History, September
                        27, 1942.
               
                  76 Ortenburger, "Charles Clemon Deam."
               
                  77 Deam to H. R. Totten, University of 
                            North Carolina
                        , December 21, 1951.
               
                  78 Deam to Ray Friesner, August 15, 1945.
            
            
            One aspect of the Deams' versatile careers may come as a surprise to those who knew them
                    only in the scientific milieu. They were very active in various fraternal organizations. He was a
                    member of the Knights of Pythias and the Blue Lodge of the Masons, receiving the fifty year Masonic
                    button several years before his death, and Mrs. Deam was active in the Eastern Star for many years.
                    In the early years of their marriage they were both interested in the study of spiritualism, and he
                    was largely responsible for the formation of the Bluffton Psychical Society, which evolved into the 
                        Spencer
                     Club as its twenty members veered to a study of the philosophy of Herbert Spencer. Most
                    of this activity came to an end for the Deams in the early years of this century.
            Deam had a strong aversion to smoking, drinking, and going into debt, and his letters contain
                    frequent warnings against these practices. On several occasions when he was invited to dinners or
                    other meetings, he declined because he knew that the rooms would be filled with smoke. One year when
                    we were on the way to a meeting of the Botanical Society of America, where he was to preside at the
                    taxo-nomic meetings, he showed me several conspicuous No Smoking signs which he had prepared and
                    asked if I thought he could enforce the rule. Such was the respect of the group for him that there
                    was practically no smoking during the sessions.
            From about 1938 onward his conversation and his letters reflected a growing concern about his health
                    and the fear that he would not live long enough to complete all the work that he had planned.
                    Although he certainly had some health problems to contend with, they were probably no worse than
                    those of many others of his age; and his continual querulous refrain about them, his pessimistic
                    outlook, and his lack of confidence in doctors and hospitals all combined in an aura of
                    hypochondria. As a matter of fact he lived to the age of almost eighty-eight years. After a stroke
                    in 1950 which left him partly paralyzed for several months, almost every letter included a long
                    discussion of his infirmities. The following are some examples, some of them from earlier times:
            August, 1930: "It is just too bad to be born with ambition to do something and then to be
                    hobbled by some infirmity or by being poor. I have just reached the stage where I have ambition to
                    do something and father time has swooped down on me and is trying his darndest to put me out of
                    business but I hope to baffle him yet for some time."79
            
            February 22, 1935: "I am still in bad shape but I hope to escape the cemetery but that
                    remains to be seen."80
            
            July 6, 1935: "With the condition of my heart I do not care to be 
                  
                     79 Deam to Weatherwax, August, 1930.
                  
                     80 Deam to Weatherwax, February 22, 1935.
               
                     out alone any more, might drop dead and bugs would get me
                    before I would be found."81
            
            May 21, 1939: "Nothing new except I went to the Doctor last week and he says I have gout or
                    some kindred subject. Too much uric acid in my blood and I am now on a purine free diet. No coffee
                    and no candy. Think this is bunk, just to make me diet conscious. No matter I can take
                        it."82
            
            October 6,1939: "I want to get this book out before Father Time gets me. I am gradually
                    slipping. I can not get this arthritis checked and I have no endurance and I am writing a nervous
                    hand. Never was nervous."83
            
            April 15, 1945: "I am right now physically all in. Roosevelt's death has affected
                    me much. I believe I read too much and listen to the radio too much."84
            
            July 11, 1949: "Father time has beat up on me until I am no longer able to do much but
                        gripe."85
            
            September 21, 1950: "My morale has been lagging for several days but when I tell folks I am
                    no better, etc. then they kid me which makes me mad. … I went to see my M.D. and he says
                    I am getting along fine. … He said I needed no medicine but just to rest up. …
                    Then I went to our leading chiropractor and here got the same dope but he said you come back twice a
                    week. He said use as little salt as I could. A new gag to me."80
            
            May 15, 1951: "I regret to inform you that my health is at a low ebb. I am not able to do
                    anything but fuss with my wife and the sad thing is I can't lick her. If I could there
                    would be satisfaction in it."87
            
            August, 1951: "This morning I was compelled to go up town to see my old business neighbor in
                    his iron box. Heart trouble at 71, a fine vigorous man who never smoked or drank but made a lot of
                    money in the optical business after he left Bluffton at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . This depressed me and today I feel I will be next."88
            
            October 8, 1951: "I am taking a lot of medicine now but this being a dam guinea pig is
                    getting on my nerves. Think if I dare get clear of taking medicine I might have a chance. The dam
                    hospital I now call the ‘Slam door’ coop. The dietician sure is a kill all.
                    Here was my dinner hand out, which they designate as a menu. I had a piece of boiled sweet potato
                    which I could and did eat. Two very small pieces of white bread. One small slice cut in two
                    (hospitals and others do not now use this white bread). Had about 15 malaga grapes 
                  
                     81 Deam to Weatherwax, July 6, 1935.
                  
                     82 Deam to Weatherwax, May 21, 1939.
                  
                     83 Deam to Weatherwax, October 6, 1939.
                  
                     84 Deam to Ray Friesner, April 15, 1945.
                  
                     85 Deam to Lloyd Van Camp, July 11, 1949.
                  
                     86 Deam to T. E. Shaw, September 21, 1950.
                  
                     87 Deam to Mrs. Walter Neff, Delphi, Indiana, May 15, 1951.
                  
                     88 Deam to T. E. Shaw, August 16, 1951.
               
                     some rotten at the end, I never eat them. Cabbage slaw. Never
                    eat that. One spoonful of whole hominy, which I ate. No spoon to feed myself with. One glass of cold
                    ice tea which I never touch. No water or coffee. Two small slices of dried beef. It would take high
                    grade teeth to chew this up. That was all. … Take my advice. Shun doctors and hospitals
                    like you would the Devil."89
            
            His comment on being irked when his friends "kidded" him about his health
                    complaints calls to mind two illustrations. In the course of a summer field trip when he had given
                    the usual recital of his infirmities and short life expectancy, Ralph Kriebel90
                    replied somewhat as follows: "Charlie Deam, if you are determined to die, I want you to go
                    ahead and die and stop talking about it." And, in answer to a complaining letter, one of
                    his correspondents wrote: "I am glad to hear that you are again on the point of death.
                    Every time you have written me that, you have turned around and written another book, or brought out
                    a revision."91
            
            Evidence of Deam's passion for an orderly arrangement of things was well exemplified by his
                    herbarium workroom. The occasional visitor might see little indication of such system, but it was
                    there; and he could usually lay his hand on a specific book, plant specimen, or piece of equipment
                    without looking for it. I say usually because the system sometimes went awry with
                    interesting consequences. The other members of the family saw the value of this self-discipline and
                    felt themselves dominated by it, but they sometimes failed to live up to his standards. When Mrs.
                    Deam was the culprit and he found it necessary to explain why some item happened to be out of place,
                    he always started out with a catalog of her good characteristics but finally got around to this
                    exceptional shortcoming. On the day of his funeral, after the brief service and the trip to the
                    cemetery, a few of us returned to the house for a short visit. It was then that the daughter spoke
                    of his dominating influence in maintaining order in the home and concluded with a cogent
                    illustration. Only that forenoon as she was working in the kitchen and had left a pantry door open
                    for a moment, a guilty conscience had compelled her to turn without thinking and close it in
                    response to a mandate which was still there.
            Deam was particularly insistent that all electrical equipment be disconnected when not in use. But
                    during the early days of the Second World War I arrived at the home one morning to find him in a
                    tizzy because of static in the radio news report. A repair man had 
                  
                     89 Deam to T. E. Shaw, October 8, 1951. This letter was apparently
                            written from the hospital.
                  
                     90 Ralph Kriebel was an amateur botanist from 
                                Bedford
                            , Indiana. He was later a member of the staff of the Division of Forestry and
                            Conservation, Purdue University.
                  
                     91 W. H. Camp to Deam, February 7, 1950.
               
                     been called, but the news would not wait. When the trouble
                    shooter did arrive, he listened to the radio for a few seconds and then, taking a quick look around
                    the room, discovered Deam's hearing aid lying on a table and flipped off the switch. That
                    solved the problem, the news came in clearly, and there was no charge for the service, but it
                    spoiled the day for Deam. He realized that in quarreling with the instrument and throwing it down in
                    disgust he had violated one of his cherished principles.
            Deam usually kept a loaded pistol in the drawer of the desk where he worked in the herbarium. On one
                    occasion a guest with whom he was discussing some weighty question of taxonomy was scared half out
                    of his wits when Deam jerked the drawer open and fired two or three shots through the open window,
                    accompanied with some forceful remarks about the canine ancestry of a rabbit which was nibbling one
                    of his choice plants in the garden. Under pressure from Mrs. Deam at another time, he agreed to
                    remove the ammunition from the gun for safety when the grandchildren were coming for a visit. He
                    removed the magazine but forgot about the cartridge in the barrel. As he laid down what he thought
                    was the empty weapon, it was discharged, fortunately with no damage except to a bottle of 
                        India
                     ink which happened to be in range. The blots remained on the wall for a long time as a
                    reminder of his error.
            As he worked on the manuscript of his various publications, he usually had two or three copies made
                    and placed one of them somewhere away from the house for safety in case of fire. But this system
                    also sometimes slipped a cog as noted in this from a letter: "Here is a joke on me. Last
                    summer wife and I left home for some time and I took the duplicate of this Mss. and hid it some
                    place so that in case the house would burn the duplicate would escape. Now I can not find the
                    duplicate. Guess we could if we would give it time enough. Think it is in the barn somewhere or at
                    the store."92 Meanwhile the missing manuscript was safe in my files
                    where he had consigned it. Incidentally, the "barn" had been built back in horse
                    and buggy days and had not been rechristened when Old Dobbin was replaced by the Model T Ford.
            One of the most amusing defeats of his rigid system came at the hand of a newly appointed secretary.
                    Having had some difficulty with inefficient typists in the past, he had written to me to ask if I
                    could recommend someone for the position. Here are the specifications as outlined in two letters:
                    "I do hate a lazy person. A lazy person ordinarily is a liar and a thief too. These three
                    things ordinarily go together but not necessarily so. … In typing manuscript she will
                    have to furnish the phalangeal grease and the supply of biblical words not intended as
                        prayer."93"Now I believe if I can get some 
                  
                     92 Deam to Weatherwax, December 11, 1931.
                  
                     93 Deam to Weatherwax, January 20, 1932.
               
                     one who can type and has a college education with some botany I
                    can break her in to do just what I want. One who is ‘too knowing’ will
                    irritate me and soon will want to tell me what to do etc. I think I can work with any one but when
                    they are working for me, that means just that and nothing else. I have never had any trouble with
                    any one at the store or in the office. I make it clear at the start what the duties are and the area
                    to be covered and that is all that is to it."94
            
            These were the specifications, and what did he get? I recommended Miss Harriet Gragg (later Mrs.
                    Leland Winch), a recent university graduate who had worked for me for a year or so and had excellent
                    ability, especially in writing, a quality which he very much needed in a secretary. Her only
                    shortcoming according to his stated requirements was that she had some constructive ideas of her
                    own. Somehow I neglected to mention this in the recommendation. After an interview the appointment
                    was made, and she began work. Visiting the Deam home a few weeks later, when the new secretary was
                    not there, I asked how the arrangement was working out. At this point Mrs. Deam took over the
                    conversation, and a paraphrase of her account runs somewhat as follows:
            "Charlie certainly got more than he asked for this time. On the morning when Harriet first
                    reported for work he sat down at her desk and spent half an hour telling her how systematic he
                    expected her to be and how everything had to be kept in its place. When he had finished and had gone
                    back to his desk, she arose, went over, and told him that it was a poor rule which did not work both
                    ways and that she supposed he was to abide by it also. Thrown off balance he asked what he had done
                    wrong, and she told him that he had carried away her pencil which should always be in a certain
                    place on her desk. With great ceremony he went over and laid the pencil in the position indicated.
                    ‘No,’ she said, ‘not that way. It must point the other
                    way.’" Most persons who knew Deam well would have predicted that he would at
                    this point have promptly taken her head off before discharging her. But he recognized a quality that
                    he was looking for, and she worked for him the following eight years, until the Flora was completed, and was later drafted to aid in the final revision of the Trees of Indiana. Throughout this period he had the highest praise for her efficiency and
                    dependability. His correspondence with Lloyd Van Camp, T. E. Shaw, and others who helped him in
                    revising the tree book was sprinkled with such expressions as, "I know this is a mess, but
                    Harriet can straighten it out." They often locked horns on English usage when she knew he
                    was wrong, and by exerting tactful pressure she was able to persuade him to abandon some of his pet
                    ideas about proper expression. When she could not 
                  
                     94 Deam to Weatherwax, January 26, 1932.
               
                     do this, she was not averse to making the corrections anyhow,
                    trusting that he would never discover the changes.
            At times when he did not have a full time secretary at Bluffton, Deam was often able to secure help
                    from local stenographers during evening hours and on week ends, but the arrangement was usually not
                    very satisfactory for either them or him. The girls had little knowledge of the subject matter and
                    terminology of his letters, and he made little effort to help them to untangle his rambling
                    discourse and reduce it to intelligible English. Because of his failing vision he often signed his
                    letters without reading them, and this resulted in some ludicrous errors. In one letter where he was
                    relating his experience in planting an orchard, the typist had him planting an orchid, and apparently neither of them caught the error. His lack of tact in
                    dictating did not help matters. Such paragraphs as the following were not inclined to engender a
                    pleasant rapport with a typist:
            "I am fortunate enough to have a typist who will work for me on Saturday p.m. I know that
                    she will miss all the football but I ask no questions. If she likes the game or has the money to
                        go."95
            
            "I have a young lady (married) to do typing for me. In due time I hope to find out if her
                    typing is equal to her good looks."96
            
            "Well Dan I hate to make remarks but we just have too many dam fads. I note your typist has
                    one. Lower casing your initials and her own. Why such idiocy. … Let us have sense before
                        non-sense."97
            
            Deam did not like to dictate letters, and we may well suspect that his difficulty in getting local
                    secretarial help was due to their reluctance to work for him. The following is his comment on his
                    side of the problem: "During my blindness98 I have gone up town and
                    dictated many letters to a public stenographer. This relieved me much but I hate to dictate. It
                    seems to me that it takes all the personality out of one's letters especially mine because
                    I am wont to just say things as they come to my mind."99
            
            Fully aware of his shortcomings in the use of English, Deam was adept at rationalizing this
                    deficiency and urging on others a high standard of expression. There is no better way of bringing
                    this into focus than to lift a few paragraphs such as the following from some of his letters:
            "My advice to you is to see that your children know how to write English and if possible to
                    practice clean speak [speech] when talking. 
                  
                     95 Deam to Fred Hermann, 
                                United States
                             Department of Agriculture, September 16, 1950.
                  
                     96 Deam to Simon Segal, Chesterton, Indiana, December 7, 1951.
                  
                     97 Deam to Daniel DenUyl, January 22, 1945.
                  
                     98 Deam never became really blind, but trouble with his eyes, which
                            began at least as early as his college days, continued throughout his life. In later years
                            the affliction was probably intensified by fumes from methyl alcohol which he used as a
                            solvent for mercuric chloride in treating his herbarium specimens to prevent damage by
                            insects.
                  
                     99 Deam to Weatherwax, n.d.
               
                     I tried to impress my daughter on this point and she was never
                    permitted to use slang and do the best with her children. I have for years appreciated the need of
                    it. I think she is rearing her children, well just like Topsy, a mistake. Good English will always
                    serve you well. I am handicapped and I am now too old to try to recoupe. … You just can
                    not resurrect a rotten egg."100
            
            "The whole darn trouble is that what little education I had in English at all is at variance
                    at what I am expected to use in this work. Even when I studied so-called English we studied Chaucer
                    and some of the lesser lights and we milled around to see if we could make out what these deified
                    authors meant by so and so, and I had in mind it was a great mark of literature acquirement to write
                    so no one could understand it. Of course if that were true today I should receive the knighthood. We
                    were taught never to repeat the same thought in the same language. Now I am supposed to reverse my
                    teaching if I ever absorbed any of it."101
            
            "Say I have written four books on Indiana and the English in all is just atrocious. I was
                    converted to the writing of good english too late."102
            
            "Language is a means of communicating ideas. Writing is the same thing, so if you
                    understand, I ask you to pardon the high brow clothing the ideas are supposed to be clothed in. With
                    me it is a choice of giving one quart bowl of soup in an old yaller vessel or giving the same stuff
                    in a very limited quantity in a silver goblet."103
            
            "Remember there is a certain technique about writing books which I have not yet acquired. If
                    I would write ten more may be that time I would get it, but I will be dead long ere that, so we must
                    put up with a tyro."104
            
            "If it is too faultless the reader will know I never wrote it, so you see where I am,
                    between the devil and the deep sea."105
            
            "Well I sure am glad to know there is a God in 
                        Israel
                    . If it was not for you and Prof. Long this Mss. would reflect the language of some of
                    our more ignorant pioneers."106
            
            "If the reader could only appreciate the rocky road such a publication comes over. Of course
                    the road depends on the driver and I come from the ‘rural district’. If you
                    had written it it would have been a cement road. My 'style' harkens back to the
                    woodland where the grasses came from."107
            
            
               
                  100 Deam to Weatherwax, December 21, 1931.
               
                  101 Deam to Weatherwax, March 6, 1930.
               
                  102 Deam to Mr. and Mrs. R. Dobbs, 
                     Miami, Florida
                  , April 16,
                        1951.
               
                  103 Deam to Weatherwax, January 19, 1920.
               
                  104 Deam to Weatherwax, November 10, 1928.
               
                  105 Deam to Weatherwax, December 17, 1932.
               
                  106 Deam to Weatherwax, April 24, 1929. Professor Long was Miss Betty Long
                        (now Mrs. Gardner Gremillion), a graduate student at Indiana University, who typed the
                        manuscript and read the proof for Deam's Grasses of Indiana.
               
               
                  107 Deam to Weatherwax, August, 1929, in connection with the preparation
                        of the manuscript of the Grasses of Indiana.
               
            
            
            Deam's penchant for including all the details sometimes caused him to bog down in irrelevant
                    ramblings to the extent that the real subject under discussion was pushed far back into the
                    background. At the risk of falling into the same morass I quote a few illustrations.
            When Indiana University was first considering the purchase of his library, he sent me his card file
                    of accessions for use in selling the deal to the library committee. Thinking it best to present this
                    information in concise form, I turned the cards over to a secretary with instructions to copy the
                    bibliographic citations and all his notes about each book. When she later came to me with a card and
                    asked if she should copy everything on it, I sensed something interesting. This is
                    what I found: "This is a very good book. I first read it while in a hospital in 
                        New Orleans
                     taking treatment for hookworm." Then, on the back of the card he had written:
                    "It turned out not to be hookworm after all."108
            
            In his first draft of the manuscript of the Flora of Indiana the description of Ipomoea pandurata, the wild sweet potato vine, included an account of an enormous
                    tuberous root of this species which had been found somewhere by a farmer when digging a grave for a
                    dead horse. I am not sure but that Deam even told what caused the death of the horse. It took some
                    argument to convince him that the reason for excavating the root could be omitted.
            Writing to the Bureau of Home Economics, 
                        Washington
                    , D. C, September 28, 1950, to ask about the food value of papaws (or pawpaws as he
                    spelled it), he says that he is eighty-five years old and his wife past eighty and that she is very
                    fond of papaws. Then he recalls that the Journal of Heredity once had an article
                    on papaws, that he was a charter member of the American Genetic Association which published the Journal, and once had a complete file of it but had sold his library because of
                    his age.109
            
            One of the most extreme examples of his ramblings into the irrelevant is found in a letter written
                    April 1, 1951, to Miss Sue Huffman, a schoolgirl at 
                        Bloomfield
                    , Indiana. She had been given the assignment of a report on the Deam Oak and had written
                    to him for information. About half of his reply of one and one half closely written pages tells
                    about the tree–how it was first discovered, his purchase for seventy-five dollars of the
                    half acre on which the tree stood, although the real value of the land was twenty or twenty-five
                    dollars per acre, his deeding the plot to the Indiana Department of Conservation, the erection of
                    the large sign board, and the things of botanical interest about the tree. The other half of the
                    letter is a monologue 
                  
                     108 Copies of these cards are located in the Deam Herbarium.
                  
                     109 Deam to 
                                United States
                             Bureau of Home Economics, 
                                Washington
                            , D. C, September 28, 1950.
               
                    
                    
                     about his health, the carelessness of city and county
                    librarians, who, knowing nothing of their value, had probably lost the copies of his books which she
                    might have consulted, the fact that Trelease had named the tree after him because he (Deam) had
                    collected cacti and century plants for him (Trelease) in 
                        Guatemala
                    , his apologies for his poor typing, his difficulty in getting a good typist, the
                    defects of his L. C. Smith typewriter for which the dealer could not get repair parts because
                    "doubtless some one was sleeping at the switch or attending a basket ball
                        game."110
            
            With all his faults of diction Deam did have a native ability for apt, if sometimes earthy,
                    expression as illustrated by a few more excerpts from his letters.
            When, as an economic expedient during the depression years in the thirties, I had told him how to
                    rejuvenate an old typewriter ribbon by treating it with a few drops of lubricating oil, he wrote:
                    "Much obliged for the typewriter ribbon dope. I was just on the verge of discarding this
                    one when I gave it the ‘monkey gland’ treatment and it is just like new
                        now."111
            
            In appreciation of the help that Mrs. Agnes Chase of the Smithsonian Institution had given him on his
                    book on grasses: "I hope St. Peter will give her a Boss's job and an easy one at
                        that."112
            
            "Just received word from 
                        Ithaca
                     that Prof. L. H. Bailey will not be able to attend meeting on account of sickness.
                    Possibly they will conduct the business like a good druggist would, have something ‘just
                    as good’."113
            
            "I note in Science of the death of Prof. Wiegand. The large old timber is
                        falling."114
            
            "Many thanks for your labors. The Thanks legal tender will not buy much merchandise at a
                    store, but we are all expected to do some charity work."115
            
            "An infant crabgrass today will have a brood tomorrow."116
            
            "I am opposed to cutting or pruning back trees and shrubs. If I want a rat terrier dog I
                    will not start with a large dog and cut off tail and ears to get my desire. That is the animal must
                    suffer your ignorance. Well here I go."117
            
            Note of appreciation to one who had written an introduction for a revised edition of the tree book:
                    "Thanks for the nice write up in 
                  
                     110 Deam to Miss Sue Huffman, April 1, 1951.
                  
                     111 Deam to Weatherwax, April 7, 1930.
                  
                     112 Deam to Weatherwax, probably early 1928.
                  
                     113 Deam to Weatherwax, October 20, 1927. L. H. Bailey was professor
                            of botany at Cornell University, 
                        Ithaca,
                                    New York
                     , for many years. He was a
                            world renowned horticulturist and published extensively in that field.
                  
                     114 Deam to Weatherwax, May 21, 1942. Karl M. Wiegand was professor of
                            botany at Cornell University. He died at age 79.
                  
                     115 Deam to Weatherwax, February 4, 1934.
                  
                     116 Deam to Weatherwax, undated fragment of a letter.
                  
                     117 Deam to T. E. Shaw, June 1, 1951.
               
                     the Introduction. You show a pharmacists hand in making
                    political salve and its application. … I lay claim to being a druggist (20 yrs.) but I
                    never got beyond making salve for old sores."118
            "Had a lot of things to write about but I think I will sign off and let em soak up so they
                    will sprout."119
            
            "No wonder taxes are so high and I have to chew my tobacco twice."120
            
            In an effort to improve his use of English he kept buying style books until he had half a dozen or
                    more and then was exasperated to find that they disagreed on many points of usage. To him there
                    should be one correct authority on usage, and it was a bitter pill for him to
                    swallow when he was finally convinced that for many points of literary style there was no such
                    standard and that one essence of good writing lay in there being many correct ways of saying a
                    thing.
            He was so violently opposed to the use of certain types of hyphenated words, such as calyx-lobes or taper-pointed, that he ruled out hyphens altogether and
                    characterized some writers as suffering from hyphenitis. He also had an aversion to the use of the
                    perfect passive participle in descriptions, insisting that certan leaves were heartshape rather than heartshaped, even when the absurdity of this
                    usage from the grammatical standpoint was clearly pointed out to him.
            He spent much time and wrote many letters trying to decide such things as whether to write inclose or enclose, half as long or one half as
                        long, and other such trivialities, at the same time committing the numerous howlers
                    illustrated by some of the previous quotations. As a last resort, when he was working on the final
                    revision of the Trees of Indiana, he drew up a long list of rules of his own, and
                    even then he frequently struck a snag. If it was correct to write bluegrass as a
                    single word, how could you possibly justify writing manna grass as two words?
                    Similar puzzles popped up with such names as pinoak but chestnut oak,
                        blackberry but black cherry, etc. For him, subtle differences in usage
                    could not possibly stand up in the face of logic. How one problem was finally resolved, at least to
                    his satisfaction, is indicated in the following comment: "At the eleventh hour I have
                    decided to use the word grass as a word and not join it to anything, even like bluegrass.
                    … No one can criticise this way of disposing of this matter, but squirreltailgrass is so
                    darn long by the time you get to the end you forget if it was a squirrel or a
                        groundhog."121
            
            Deam had some fixed ideas about the format of publications, and his correspondence is sprinkled with
                    caustic comments about the ignorance 
                  
                     118 Deam to T. E. Shaw, June 13, 1952.
                  
                     119 Deam to T. E. Shaw, May 19, 1952.
                  
                     120 Deam to Daniel DenUyl, November 26, 1951. DenUyl had just returned
                            from a meeting which he had attended at state expense.
                  
                     121 Deam to Weatherwax, probably some time in 1928.
               
                     of printers who disregarded or misinterpreted his garbled
                    directions. His prejudices also carried over to books published by others. Having once ordered an
                    important taxonomic monograph published by one of the wealthy foundations, he sent the quarto volume
                    back without unwrapping it simply because it was too tall to fit into his bookshelves. For a time he
                    refused to carry in stock in his drugstores any of the magazines put out by one well known
                    publishing company because they had adopted the practice of numbering the pages at the bottom
                    instead of in the upper corners, as, in his opinion, pages should always be numbered. On unwrapping
                    another book which he had ordered, he angrily threw it on the floor because he had been misled by
                    the title. It was advertised as a manual of botany and was designed as a laboratory guide for
                    conventional courses in elementary botany. But to him a manual could be only a taxonomic treatise
                    like Gray's Manual. Receipt of one book which he had ordered provoked
                    this comment in a letter to the American distributor : "Book O.K., mighty fine but like
                    most English books no Index. With me no index no buy but this one I will accept because it is worth
                    keeping. A person (busy) with a large library can not afford to spend time on a book with no
                        index."122
            
            As a person whose main guide in life was science and logic, Deam was conspicuously inept in dealing
                    with mechanical things. If his car stopped out on the road and refused to start, his resources for
                    dealing with it consisted of scarcely more than kicking a tire. He wrote letters to two or three
                    dealers in laboratory supplies trying to find some dissecting needles with square
                    handles–so that they would not roll off his desk. He worried for a long time about not
                    having calipers with which to measure acorns and hickory nuts until it was pointed out to him that
                    two wooden blocks and a ruler would work quite as well as anything that he could buy. When the
                    rheostat of his microscope lamp burned out, he was unable to devise a substitute light, and his work
                    was at a standstill for several weeks while he waited for repairs. I sometimes thought that his
                    aversion to the study of algae and other microscopic forms of plant life stemmed largely from his
                    own difficulty in using a compound microscope. Always handicapped by poor vision, he continually
                    quarreled with microscopes, eyeglasses, and other visual aids. He once became fascinated with the
                    possibility of using a camera lucida for making drawings and proceeded to purchase one. But he was
                    never able to discipline himself to making effective use of it. His struggle with dentures and
                    hearing aids was more of the same thing.
            He personally detested the "made work" program of the New Deal during the
                    depression and characterized the activity of the Works Progress Administration as an exercise in
                    "leaning on the 
                  
                     122 Deam to Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., March 6, 1951.
               
                     shovel," but during the presidential campaigns of 1940
                    and 1944 he often closed his letters with the injunction, "Vote for Roosevelt." He
                    wrote critically about boys who could not work for him because they had planned to attend Boy Scout
                    camps, but when a manufacturing company inquired of him how they might get help in collecting down
                    from cattail plants and milkweeds, he suggested that they try the Boy Scout organizations.
            After Deam left his position as state forester in 1928, he found it difficult to adjust to the idea
                    of working nominally under the direction of younger men. Ralph Wilcox, who became state forester,
                    had been his assistant and was now his boss; and Kenneth Kunkel and Virgil Simmons, whom he still
                    thought of as schoolboys at Bluffton, held high positions in the Indiana Department of Conservation.
                    It must be said to the credit of all these, however, that all the exchanges of letters show only
                    their high regard for his work and the greatest personal courtesy and consideration for him. For
                    Governor Paul V. McNutt, Deam made no effort to conceal his contempt. In one letter he writes of him
                    as "the great I. Am McNutt."123 In another he shows his
                    resentment toward McNutt's egotistical manner in a different context: "It always
                    irritated me to write a letter from the forestry office with his name on letterhead but mine non
                    est. … Well this as with many other things we must just grin and bear it. If it is cold
                    or hot we just adjust ourselves to change, but Paul McNutt will have to be put in a capsule before I
                    can take him."124
            
            On receipt of the various honors which came his way Deam always expressed great surprise and insisted
                    that he was unworthy of them. The following statement is typical: "I have just received a
                    letter from [Indiana University] Pres. [Herman B] 
                        Wells
                     informing me that I was voted to receive the Hon. Doctor of laws. Weatherwax what have
                    I done? Doubtless I am on the wrong track. If I can deceive the educated people like this what could
                    I do with mediocrity in some other line? Now I feel just like a piker–walk off with
                    undeserved honors and see others more deserving behind. Now I must have some long range friends like
                    Weatherwax or else I would never have been discovered. … Well my
                    'stock' was far below par until I received Pres. 
                        Wells
                     letter and this morning I got 20 pages more of galley."125
            
            Although he discounted the honor, he was so excited about it that when he came to receive the degree
                    on Founder's Day he forgot a part of his luggage, and we had to supply substitutes to make
                    him presentable for the ceremony. He also requested that he be seated on the stage with his good ear
                    toward the lectern so that he could hear 
                  
                     123 Deam to Ray Friesner, June 7, 1946.
                  
                     124 Deam to John S. Wright, Eli Lilly & Co., February 14,
                            1944.
                  
                     125 Deam to Weatherwax, April 20, 1939.
               
                     what was said. A few days later he expressed his great
                    satisfaction with the ceremony and appreciation of the honor in these words:
            "Well the Foundation day was a great Event for me. One thing remains non-understandable to
                    me. That is the hood we brought home without cost to us. Seems there must be a mistake
                        somewhere."126
            
            "Pres 
                        Wells
                     sent me what was said by him and [Dean] Payne at the Exercises the other day. Very
                    thoughtful of him. He strikes me as a real business man. No matter how insignificant the item, he
                    thought of it."127
            
            A FINAL WORD
            As a final evaluation of Deam's life and work we have only to review the record, remembering
                    that peccadillos and deviations from the conventional, the materials which make good gossip, have a
                    way of stealing the show. With no formal training for the undertaking and with very limited
                    financial assistance he accumulated a full and dependable record of the flora of Indiana at a
                    critical time, and a library to support it, and he further made this record available through a
                    series of publications which command the highest professional respect. In recognition of his
                    prominence as a taxonomist at least forty-eight plants have been named after him. Among his notes we
                    found a carefully prepared list of species and varieties, and one genus, in the names of which the
                    word Deam appeared.
            The long list of distinguished names in his guest books points to an interesting and profitable
                    pathway to his door, and the thick files of his correspondence testify to his professional standing
                    although he always regarded himself as an amateur. A college dropout at the end of his second year,
                    he received honorary degrees from three institutions of high standing and numerous citations from
                    various honorary and professional societies. These included the A.M. from 
                        Wabash
                     College, 1920; the Sc.D. from DePauw University, 1932; the LL.D. from Indiana
                    University, 1939; membership in Xi Sigma Pi, honorary forestry fraternity of Purdue University; the
                    Pugsley Silver Medal of the American Scenic and Historical Preservation Society of 
                        New York
                    ; Certificate of Distinction from the Purdue University Agricultural Alumni Association;
                    and the Mary Soper Pope Medal of Cranbrook Institute.128
            
            But some of the most significant, and probably most appreciated, recognitions came from the citizens
                    of his own home town–from those who knew him best, merits, faults, inconsistencies and
                    all–as a successful and dependable businessman, a good neighbor and citizen, 
                  
                     126 Deam to Weatherwax, May 9, 1939.
                  
                     127 Deam to Weatherwax, May 10, 1939. Fernandus Payne was dean of the
                            graduate school, Indiana University.
                  
                     128 A list of these honors was found among his biographical
                        notes.
               
                     and one who brought honor to their community. He was made an
                    honorary member of the Bluffton Kiwanis Club in 1939 and of the Lions Club in 1952. On the evening
                    of October 27, 1938, the city of Bluffton honored him and Mrs. Deam with an appreciation dinner
                    attended by three hundred guests from many parts of the state. Again, on February 19, 1952, tribute
                    was paid him by a dinner sponsored by the Lions Club of Bluffton. A portrait showing him at work in
                    his herbarium, with a plaque explaining some aspects of his work, was given a prominent place in the 
                        Wells County
                     Courthouse.
            Deam always modestly professed to disparage these honors, but his collection of newspaper clippings,
                    his skill in seeing that copies of these testimonials fell into the hands of his friends, and his
                    interest in the exact wording of his kudos all testified to his very natural pride in and
                    appreciation of such recognition.
            
               BLUFFTON LIONS' CLUB DINNER HONORING DEAM, FEBRUARY 19, 1952.
               LEFT TO RIGHT, MAIN TABLE: M. S. SMITH, WELLS COUNTY
                            AGRICULTURAL AGENT; RAY C. FRIESNER, BUTLER UNIVERSITY; DEAM; MRS. DEAM; T. E. SHAW, PURDUE UNIVERSITY; JOHN
                        H. PAINTER, BLUPPTON WHOLESALE GROCER; DANIEL DENUYL, PURDUE UNIVERSITY; RALPH F. WILCOX, INDIANA STATE FORESTER;
                            CHARLES E. STURGIS, BLUFFTON ATTORNEY AND DEAM'S HIGH SCHOOL FRIEND; KENNETH K. KUNKEL, DIRECTOR, INDIANA DEPARTMENT OF CONSERVATION.
            
            
            Appendix 1∗
            
            MAJOR PUBLICATIONS BY CHARLES C. DEAM
            
               Additions to the Indiana flora. Proc. Indiana Acad. Sci. 1904:219-221. 1905.
               Additions to Indiana flora, no. 2. Proc. Indiana Acad. Sci. 1905:185-186. 1906.
               Additions to Indiana flora, no. 3. Proc. Indiana Acad. Sci. 1906:137-138. 1907.
               Additions to Indiana state flora, no. 4. Proc. Indiana Acad. Sci. 1909:381-382. 1910.
               Additions to the flora of the Lower Wabash Valley, by Dr. J. Schneck.
                        Proc. Indiana Acad. Sci. 1911:365-369. 1912.
               Plants new or rare to Indiana. Proc. Indiana Acad. Sci. 1911:371-374. -1912.
               Trees of Indiana. Bull. Indiana State Board of Forestry 3:299 pp. 1919.
               Plants not hitherto reported from Indiana. Proc. Indiana Acad. Sci. 1912:81-84. 1913.
               Plants new or rare to Indiana, no. 5. Proc. Indiana Acad. Sci. 1914:197-201. 1915.
               Plants not hitherto reported from Indiana, VI. Proc. Indiana Acad. Sci. 1915:135-140. 1916.
               Cheilanthes lanosa and Isoetes in Indiana. Amer. Fern Jour. 7:112-114. 1917.
               Plants new or rare to Indiana, VII. Proc. Indiana Acad. Sci. 1916:315-322. 1917.
               Trees of Indiana. Bull. Indiana State Board of Forestry 3:299 pp. 1919.
               Plants new or rare to Indiana, VIII. Proc. Indiana Acad. Sci. 1918:144-150. 1919.
               Forest conditions in Indiana. Tri-State Forestry Conference, pp. 16-19. 1919.
               The forests of Indiana, past, present, and future. Dept. of Conserv. State of Indiana. pp.
                        25-28. 1920.
               Plants new to Indiana, IX. Proc. Indiana Acad. Sci. 1920:225-228. 1921.
               Trees of Indiana. Dept. of Conservation, State of Indiana. 317 pp. 1921.
               Plants new to Indiana, X. Proc. Indiana Acad. Sci. 1921:101-103. 1922.
               Plants new to Indiana, XI. Proc. Indiana Acad. Sci. 1922:263-264. 1923.
               Plants new or rare in Indiana, XII. Proc. Indiana Acad. Sci. 1923:221-222. 1924.
               Shrubs of Indiana. Dept. of Conservation, State of Indiana. 351 pp. 1924.
               Flora of Indiana: on the distribution of the ferns, fern allies, and flowering plants. Proc.
                        Indiana Acad. Sci. 34:39-53. 1925.
               Plants new or rare to Indiana, XIII. Proc. Indiana Acad. Sci. 35:197-198. 1926.
               Plants new or rare to Indiana, XIV. Proc. Indiana Acad. Sci. 37:321-323. 1928.
               Grasses of Indiana. Dept. of Conservation, State of Indiana. 356 pp. 1929.
               Plants new or rare to Indiana, XV. Proc. Indiana Acad. Sci. 39:123-125. 1930.
               Plants new or rare to Indiana, XVI. Proc. Indiana Acad. Sci. 40:77-79. 1931.
               Trees of Indiana. Dept. of Conservation, State of Indiana. 326 pp. 1932.
               Shrubs of Indiana. Dept. of Conservation, State of Indiana. 380 pp. 1932.
               Plants new or rare to Indiana, XVII. Proc. Indiana Acad. Sci. 41:123. 1932.
               Plants new or rare to Indiana, XVIII. Proc. Indiana Acad. Sci. 42:47-49. 1933.
               Plants new or rare to Indiana, XIX. Proc. Indiana Acad. Sci. 43:48-49. 1934.
               Plants new or rare to Indiana, XX. Proc. Indiana Acad. Sci. 44:53-54. 1935.
               Flora of Indiana. Dept. of Conservation, State of Indiana. 1236 pp. 1940.
               Trees of Indiana. Dept. of Conservation, State of Indiana. 1953.
            
            
               
                  ∗ Because of the scientific nature of the items listed in the
                        following appendices, the author was given permission to use the bibliographic format acceptable
                        in the field of botany. Appendix 1 is arranged chronologically by date of publication;
                        appendices 2 and 3 are alphabetical. The explanation of entries in Appendix 1 is: title of
                        article or book; title of periodical, bulletin, or series in which published or name of
                        publisher; volume number or year in which meetings were held; pages; year of publication. For
                        Appendix 3 the explanation is: name of plant, including the person who named it; author of work
                        in which first mentioned; title of article or book; volume number; pages; date of
                    publication.
            
            
            Appendix 2
            PLANTS NEW TO SCIENCE, DISCOVERED BY DEAM, NAMED BY OTHERS
            
               
                  Acalypha euphrasiostachys Bartlett.
               
                  Anona macrophylata J. Donnel Smith.
               
                  Calliandra rhodocephala J. Donnel Smith.
               
                  Celtis pumila var. Deamii Sargent.
               
                  Chamaesyce rutilis Millspaugh.
               
                  Clusia quadrangulata Bartlett.
               
                  Cordia truncatifolia Bartlett.
               
                  Echites turrigera Woodson.
               
                  Erigenia fiscalensis J. Donnel Smith.
               
                  Euphorbia ephedromorpha Bartlett.
               
                  Euphorbia inter axillaris Pernald.
               
                  Euphorbia puberula Fernald.
               
                  Fuirena zacapana Bartlett.
               
                  Hybanthus cymosus Bartlett.
               
                  Ipomoea anisomeres Robinson and Bartlett.
               
                  Liabum caducifolium Robinson and Bartlett.
               
                  Mikania guatemalense Standley and Steyermark.
               
                  Myriocarpa malacophylla Robinson and Bartlett.
               
                  Polygonum longiocreatum Bartlett.
               
                  Polypodium hispidulum Bartlett.
               
                  Rinorea deflexiflora Bartlett.
               
                  Russelia rugosa Robinson.
               
                  Tetramerium gualense Robinson and Bartlett.
               
                  Tetrapteris emarginata Bartlett.
               
                  Vernonia altissima var. taenotrichia Blake.
            
            Appendix 3
            PLANTS NAMED AFTER DEAM
            
               
                  Deamia gen. nov., Cactaceae. Britton & Rose, Cactaceae 2:212. 1920.
               
                  Acalypha virginica var. Deamii Weatherby. Rhodora 29:197.
                        1927.
               
                  Adicea Deamii Lunell. Amer. Mid. Nat. 3:101. 1913.
               
                  Aeschynome Deamii Robinson & Bartlett. Contr. Gray
                        Herb. n.s. 34:52. 1907.
               
                  Agave Deamiana Trel. Trans. 
                            St. Louis
                         Acad. Sci. July 15, 1915.
               
                  Anneslia Deamii Britton & Rose. N. Amer. Flora 23:56. 1928.
               
                  Arabis viridis var. Deamii Hopkins. Rhodora 39:157-160.
                        1937.
               
                  Bidens Deamii Sherff. Bot. Gaz. 56:490. 1930. Bot. Gaz. 81:21. 1926.
               
                  Carex Deamii Hermann. Rhodora 40:81. 1938.
               
                  Cereus Deamii Rose. Apparently never published.
               
                  Cologania Deamii Fernald. Proc. Amer. Acad. Sci. 26:492. 1901.
               
                  Commelina erecta var. Deamiana Fernald. Rhodora 42:440.
                        1940.
               
                  Coreopsis tripteris var. Deamii Standley. Rhodora 32:34.
                        1930.
               
                  Cyperus Deamii O'Neill. Rhodora 44:81-83. 1942.
               
                  Epidendrum Deamii Schlichter.
               
                  Erigeron Deamii Robinson. Contr. Gray Herb. n.s. 38:410. 1910.
               
                  Grimaldia Deamii Britton & Rose. N. Amer. Flora 23:300. 1930.
               
                  Guttarda Deamii Standley. Contr. Nat. Herb. 20:209. 1919.
               
               
                  Hydrangea arborescens var. Deamii St. John. Rhodora
                        23:208. 1921.
               
                  Isertia Deamii Bartlett. Contr. Gray Herb. n.s. 34:59. 1907.
               
                  Lacinaria Deamii Lunell. Amer. Mid. Nat. 2:169-170. 1912.
               
                  Lespedeza virginica f. Deamii Hopkins. Rhodora 37:265.
                        1935.
               
                  Liabum Deamii Robinson & Bartlett. Contr. Gray Herb. n.s. 34:60.
                        1907.
               
                  Liatris Deamii (Lunell) Shinners. Amer. Mid. Nat. 29:31. 1943.
               
                  Ludungia sphaerocarpa var. Deamii Fernald &
                        Griscom. Rhodora 37:174-175. 1935.
               
                  Mimosa Deamii Robinson. Contr. Gray Herb. n.s. 18:324. 1900.
               
                  Opuntia Deamii Rose. Contr. Nat. Herb. 13:309. 1911.
               
                  Pedilanthus Deamii Millspaugh. Papers Field Mus. Bot. 2:356. 1913.
               
                  Peiranisia Deamii Britton. N. Amer. Flora 23:261. 1930.
               
                  Penstemon Deamii Pennell. Scrophulariaceas of Eastern N. Amer., p. 212.
                        1935.
               
                  Podophyllum peltatum f. Deamii Raymond. Rhodora 50:18.
                        1948.
               
                  Prunus virginiana i. Deamii G. N. Jones. Rhodora 45:355. 1943.
               
                  Ptelea trifoliata var. Deamiana Nieuwland. Amer. Mid. Nat.
                        2:179-190. 1912.
               
                  Quercus Deamii Trelease. Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. 56:49. 1917.
               
                  Rondeletia Deamii (D. Smith) Standley. N. Amer. Flora 32:60. 1918.
               
                  Rosa Deamii Erlanson. Rhodora 30:120-121. 1928.
               
                  Rubus Deamii Bailey. Gentes Herbarum 2:463-464. 1932.
               
                  Ruprectia Deamii Robinson. Contr. Gray Herb. n.s. 34:51. 1907.
               
                  Russelia Deamii Robinson. Contr. Gray Herb. n.s. 20:474. 1901.
               
                  Senegalia Deamii Britton & Rose. N. Amer. Flora 23:117. 1928.
               
                  Silphium integrifolium var. Deamii
                        
                            Perry
                        . Rhodora 39:287. 1937.
               
                  Solidago Deamii Fernald. Rhodora 38:204-205. 1936.
               
                  Tabernaemontana Deamii J. D. Smith.
               
                  Thalictrum Deamii Boivin. Rhodora 46:408. 1943.
               X Verbena Deamii Moldenke. Revista Sudamericana de Botanica 4:18. 1937.
               
                  Viburnum pubescens var. Deamii Rehder. Jour. Arnold Arb.
                        5:58-59. 1924.
            
            Probably the best known of all these plants named after Deam is the Deam Oak. This tree was
                    discovered by Bruce Williamson and his father in 1904 about three miles northwest of Bluffton. They
                    took a specimen to Deam who, recognizing it as something new, sent the specimen to William Trelease
                    of the University of 
                        Illinois
                    , a specialist on the oak genus. He pronounced it a hybrid between the white oak and the
                    chinquapin oak and named it Quercus Deamii. Deam later purchased the half acre
                    plot on which the tree stood and presented it to the state. It is now maintained as a state monument
                    and is shown on most Indiana road maps.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Indiana University: Midwestern Pioneer. Volume I, The Early
                    Years. By Thomas D. Clark. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1970. Pp. xvii, 371. Illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $10.00.)
            The author viewed his challenge in writing this book as one of providing a fresh interpretive account
                    without repeating what had already been said in three older histories of Indiana University.
                    Although solidly based on documentary materials, this work, alas, is not footnoted. After tracing
                    the institution's establishment, Clark directs his attention inward. He projects his
                    description of events at Bloomiington against a hastily sketched backdrop of political and social
                    history, but he avoids critical evaluation of Indiana University in the light of national or
                    international developments in higher education. Yet the book is not uncritical. Its standard of
                    judgment is the unstated assumption that practical education for the children of democracy is the
                    best kind. It would have been valuable had Clark tested this assumption.
            Nearly two thirds of the book describes the history of an isolated liberal arts college down to 1885.
                    Created by law in 1820, Indiana Seminary opened five years later in a backwoods county seat with the
                    proceeds of a federal land grant. In 1828 the legislature converted the seminary into Indiana
                    College, and a decade later Indiana University emerged by legislative fiat. The institution long
                    retained its original religious and classical mold. The presidents and most of the faculty were
                    ministers, and the core curriculum was imitative and narrow. In the 1850s, after twenty-three years
                    of a traditionalist president, the legislature attempted to make the university more practical and
                    bring it closer to the public. Loss of the 1862 land grant to Purdue redirected the institution to
                    the liberal arts and professions, but new life stirred by 1867. In that year the legislature assumed
                    slight responsibility for direct financial support; women students, a student newspaper, and
                    baseball first appeared on campus. Nevertheless sectarianism persisted much longer. Both text and
                    illustrations award the six preacher-presidents excessive prominence, but Clark does not neglect
                    student life. His lively descriptions of its various manifestations lack adequate context, however.
                    In treating student unrest he fails to grapple with the basic reasons that account for the perpetual
                    turmoil.
            Between 1885 and 1902 the cloistered college moved into the mainstream of American higher education.
                    President David Starr Jordan, an imaginative scientist and former faculty member, revised the
                    curriculum, introduced electives, appointed new faculty members, and encouraged both specialization
                    and graduate study. After his  1891 departure Indiana finally
                    realized "university status and academic maturity" (p. 263). Clark interestingly
                    details the new channels into which students and student life were swept in the late nineteenth
                    century; but he deals with this period of great educational ferment too briefly, and occasionally
                    the hurried account falters. Perhaps more of the book should have been devoted to the later years.
            The editor sometimes fails the author (note inconsistencies in student numbers, pp. 73, 75; salaries,
                    pp. 67, 75; and in the handling of Bryan's name, for example), but Clark himself is
                    judicious and possesses a gift for the adroit phrase. Readable and basically well balanced, the book
                    shows that Indiana University, an early public institution of higher learning in the Ohio
                        Valley, was only chronologically a pioneer. Its greatest days lie ahead when this
                    volume closes, and readers must await its sequel to follow that development.
            
               University of 
                     Illinois,
                                Urbana
                  -
                            Champaign
                        
                Winton U. Solberg
         
         
            
               Ghost Railroads of Indiana. By Elmer G. Sulzer. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Vane A. Jones Co., 1970. Pp. 267. Maps, illustrations, generalized bibliography,
                    appendices. $15.00.)
            Introducing Elmer G. Sulzer's Ghost Railroads of Indiana is much like
                    introducing an eccentric friend. Its worth is obvious to anyone who shares Sulzer's
                    interest and has an affinity for his style; others, more inclined toward monographic conciseness,
                    may wonder just what the author set out to do. Ghost Railroads of Indiana is a
                    combination of railroad buffmanship and astute historical research. It could be produced only by a
                    person who has had a lifelong fascination with railroads and, at the same time, possesses the
                    scholarly ingenuity to dig for facts in the most remote places
            On first glance this is a picture book; in fact, it does contain approximately 300
                    photographs–locomotives of many vintages, rolling stock of all descriptions, tracks,
                    stations, water towers, bridges, wrecks, and, of course, railroaders. Also reproduced on its pages
                    are maps, timetables, tickets, passes, stock certificates, dining car menus, and (in the appendix)
                    charts containing significant data on locomotives and track mileage
            But it is the text itself, sandwiched between the illustrative material which gives the book its
                    authoritative tone. The following excerpt, chronicling the steps in one of many rail consolidations,
                    exemplifies the factual detail in which the book abounds:
            "On September 10, 1901, the Eel River Railroad was deeded to the 
                        Logansport
                     & 
                        Toledo
                     Railroad which had been organized in the interest of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Shortly thereafter, the L&T secured trackage rights over the 
                        Wabash
                     between 
                        Butler
                     and 
                  Toledo, Ohio
               ,  and freight and
                    passenger trains were run through from 
                        Logansport
                     to 
                        Toledo
                     without change of crew.
            "Through a consolidation effective January 1, 1905, the Logans-port & 
                        Toledo
                     became a part of the Vandalia Railroad. Through a further consolidation in 1916, the
                    Vandalia became a part of the 
                  Pittsburgh,
                            Cincinnati, Chicago
                & 
                        St. Louis
                     Railroad; and by an agreement dated September 28, 1955, the PCC&StL was merged
                    into the 
                  Philadelphia, Baltimore
                & 
                        Washington
                     Railroad. All of these organizations were proprietary companies of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Railroad" (p. 152).
            Much of the text, on the other hand, is anecdotal. Sulzer tells about elaborate entrepreneurial
                    schemes (p. 34), pitched battles between rival rail crews (p. 84), and awesome train accidents (p.
                    108). Of course it is the "abandoned" railroads that he deals with, but with over
                    a thousand miles of abandoned main line mileage in the state of Indiana (as of January, 1969) from
                    which to launch his presentation, there is no dearth of information–assuming that someone
                    with Sul-zer's persistence cares to go after it.
            The book's ten chapters deal with railroads which are representative of, or at least
                    identifiable with, most areas of Indiana, e.g., "The Old Coal Road" in the
                    northeastern part of the state, "The Old Midland" through central Indiana, the
                    "Arnica" line in the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     region, the several branches of the old "
                        Madison
                    ," and the various lines terminating at 
                        Evansville
                    . Anyone who has tried to decipher the intricate rail pattern in the southwestern part
                    of the state will be impressed with Chapter 10, "Old Bituminous Carriers." The
                    research that went into this chapter alone had to be prodigious.
            
               Ghost Railroads is not the definitive history of Indiana's rail
                    transportation, but whoever ultimately writes this history will surely get some free rides on the
                    "trackage" that Sulzer has uncovered. Meanwhile, buffs of all ages are going to
                    get a lot of enjoyment out of Sulzer's 267 page excursion.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Kokomo
                        
                Victor Bogle
         
         
            
               Edward Charles Elliott, Educator. By Frank K. Burrin. (
                        Lafayette
                    : Purdue University Studies, 1970. Pp. xv, 187. Notes, pictures, selected bibliography
                    of Elliott's works, index. $5.50.)
            Edward Charles Elliott was president of Purdue University from 1922 to 1945. During these
                    twenty-three years he steered the school through its greatest years of expansion in size, prestige,
                    and service, and it was inevitable that his retirement would offer the occasion for comparisons.
                    Generally speaking, student enrollments increased from approximately 3,200 to 8,600; administrative,
                    instructional, and  research staffs increased from 456 to 1,247;
                    course offerings expanded from 595 to 1,217; major buildings increased from 31 to 59; land acreage
                    more than doubled from 2,784 acres to 6,472 acres; and finally, the value of the physical plant rose
                    from $3,700,000 to $18,700,000 by 1945 (p. 137).
            Elliott's career began in 1897 as a science teacher in 
                        Leadville
                    , 
                        Colorado
                    , and ended in 1952 with the completion of his last major assignment as the director of
                    educational relations for the American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education. This fifty-five year
                    career also included experience as a college teacher, school superintendent, state college
                    chancellor, and president of a Big Ten university.
            Frank K. Burrin, associate dean of continuing education at Purdue, had what few authors have when
                    they write–namely, almost daily consultation with Elliott himself over a period of
                    several years to check and recheck every part of this story. In fact, Burrin wrote his doctoral
                    dissertation on the life and work of Elliott, one of America's outstanding administrators
                    in the field of publicly supported higher education. This book is based on Burrin's earlier
                    work.
            Burrin says in his foreword that the book "is, in part, a biography, although not a record
                    of his [Elliott's] personal life; it is, in part, an historical record of the institutions
                    which he served (with particular reference to Purdue University) although not the complete story by
                    any means; and finally, to a certain extent, it relates his career to the historical development of
                    education in 
                        America
                     during the period 1900-1950, and the issues faced by American educators during those
                    years" (pp. ix-x). This reviewer would agree with the author that it is not a biography,
                    not a history of educational institutions, nor a history of education; yet all of these elements are
                    interestingly presented in the tradition of the memorial biography.
            This work is enthusiastically recommended for those interested in Purdue University, for those who
                    served under President Elliott, and for all who are interested in the story of higher education. The
                    reader will appreciate the introduction by President Frederick L. Hovde of Purdue University, the
                    photographs, the notes at the end of each chapter, and finally a selected bibliography of
                    Elliott's works.
            
               Purdue University, 
                            West Lafayette
                        
                Paul E. Million, Jr.
         
         
            
               
                  
                            France
                         and the 
                            United States
                        : Their Diplomatic Relations, 1789-1914. By Henry Blumenthal. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : The University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1970. Pp. xiv, 312. Notes, tables, appendices, bibliography, index.
                    $9.75.)
            Professor Blumenthal has written a diplomatic history of a type 
                    which was more common in the last generation than in this. He covers the main outlines of
                    Franco-American relations over a period of 125 years. His technique is neither broadly
                    interpretative nor extremely detailed but combines a summary of the main facts with comments and
                    interpretation on the best known events and policies affecting the relations of the two countries.
                    The work is based on both American and French primary sources as well as on the secondary literature
                    dealing with more specialized topics in these years, and Blumenthal summarizes his sources in a
                    useful bibliography. The book is accurate in detail and moderate in tone; there are no startling
                    revelations or strikingly new interpretations. The coverage is somewhat more complete after 1871,
                    but academic readers will be familiar with much of the material discussed. It is not entirely clear
                    which audience the book is aimed at, but the dust jacket maintains that the book is "an
                    intelligent man's survey for intelligent readers."
            Although this is a sound account, the book suffers from a lack of general analytical themes and from
                    a rather pedestrian thematic organization. It is divided into three chronological sections, the
                    divisions coming at 1871 and 1900. Within each section the author proceeds in roughly chronological
                    fashion with each chapter revolving around some major event affecting Franco-American relations; for
                    example, the last four chapters of the first section of the book are respectively entitled
                    "The 
                        United States
                     and the Crimean War," "
                        France
                     and the American Civil War," "Napoleon's Mexican
                    Debacle," and "The 
                        United States
                     and the Franco-Prussian War." This method advances the narrative with clarity
                    but does not help to produce meaningful new interpretations.
            The merits of the book lie chiefly in the soundness of the research, its overall view of
                    Franco-American relations, and the balance of its detailed judgments; its weaknesses stem primarily
                    from the lack of space to cover more than the main outlines of its many subjects, an oversimplified
                    organization, and a lack of analysis in depth. This presumably will be the standard general history
                    of Franco-American diplomatic relations in the nineteenth century, but it is unlikely to stimulate
                    any fervent discussion among diplomatic historians.
            
               University of 
                            Wisconsin
                        , Milwaukee Reginald Horsman
         
         
            
               The Territory of 
                            Michigan
                        , [1805-1837]. By Alec R. Gilpin. ([East Lansing]: 
                        Michigan
                     State University Press, 1970. Pp. 234. Notes, appendix, selected bibliography, index.
                    $8.00.)
            According to the dust jacket of this little volume, Professor Gilpin, who teaches humanities at 
                        Michigan
                     State University, has written  "the first
                    book concerned solely with the history of the territory." Unfortunately, that is the only
                    explicit statement of the author's purpose in writing the book. This reviewer found neither
                    preface nor conclusion to the study and missed the orderly development of themes required of
                    substantial history works. The reader is forced to discover for himself exactly what the author has
                    in mind.
            The problem is compounded by the elusiveness of even the dust jacket description. Superficially, the
                    author has organized his material clearly. He has three parts (1805-1812, 1815-1830, and 1831-1836)
                    within which he has four units (legislation and courts, land development, Indian relations, and
                    military affairs). In addition, he has provided an "interlude" between parts one
                    and two to discuss the War of 1812 and a final chapter on the final phases of 
                        Michigan
                    's achieving statehood. This method of organization, however, is choppy and
                    indicative of the author's inability to trace fundamental questions and to explain them
                    systematically. The reader finds himself being shifted frequently from issue to issue, man to man,
                    and place to place without any coherent treatment. (See, for example, pp. 98-99, 124-25.) This
                    method allows the reader only fleeting knowledge of such important problems as banking, currency,
                    political party formation, and Indian responses to white settlement. This reviewer would have
                    appreciated sustained treatment, for example, of Territorial Governor Lewis Cass' positions
                    on national and territorial questions.
            Not only does the author frequently treat his material superficially, but he also insists on writing
                    ambiguously and unattractively. Thus the reader finds such sentences as "Religion was, of
                    course, a continuing thing" (p. 18); "The British decided [in 1812] to encourage
                    the Indians to fight for them, more because they feared the Indians would not remain neutral than
                    because they greatly valued mass Indian participation" (p. 55); "Politically
                    speaking, the most attention during 1822 in 
                        Michigan
                     focused on the desirability of an elected legislature" (p. 81); "The
                    routine development of 
                        Michigan
                     continued" (p. 136); and "Meanwhile, despite the flurry of political
                    activities in 1836, 
                        Michigan
                     continued to progress" (p. 192). He also is forced to bear with such
                    indications of weak organization as "As previously stated" and "To review
                    briefly."
            In addition, the author often fails to document or illustrate his case convincingly. He passes too
                    lightly over the Federalists even though he asserts they were influential. He treats only briefly
                    the development of Jacksonianism and relates–without proof–the Whigs and
                    anti-Jackson Democrats with conservatism (p. 147). He frequently handles the "Indian
                    problem" (for example, pp. 39, 125) by placing the burden of proof on Indians. His
                    footnotes document statistical or statutory evidence but are absent occasionally when assertions  (for example, the declaration about
                    "Conservatives" on p. 148) are present.
            Despite some major problems, the book has a few merits. It is the first work on the subject and
                    contains many apparently significant primary sources. Its treatment of the War of 1812, the 
                        Toledo
                     War of 1835, and the statehood debate in 
                        Michigan
                     in 1836-1837 makes for interesting reading. Perhaps the structure of the book,
                    moreover, reflects the complex and irrational bickering that tended to mark territorial politics.
            On the whole, however, the author ignores too many important issues, such as the effects of the
                    frontier experience upon the institutions of the territory, and relies on a circuitous approach to
                    what must have been a fascinating aspect of 
                        United States
                     history.
            
               Indiana State University, 
                            Evansville
                        
                Darrel E. Bigham
         
         
            
               Jacksonian America, 1815-1840: New Society, Changing Politics. Edited by Frank
                    Otto Gatell and John M. McFaul. Eyewitness Accounts of American History.
                    (Englewood Cliffs, N. J.: Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1970. Pp. v, 185. Suggestions for further reading.
                    Clothbound, $5.95; paperbound, $1.95.)
            Basically this volume consists of edited readings relating to the Jacksonian period that have been
                    culled from government documents and published personal papers. It is clearly designed as
                    supplementary reading in American history survey courses. However, the intelligent and judicious
                    selections of sources as well as the perceptive editorial notes mark the book as one of the better
                    efforts in this class of historical literature.
            The structure of the book is dictated by the editors' belief that the political uniqueness
                    of the Jacksonian era derived from the sweeping social, economic, and demographic changes affecting
                    America in the quarter century following the War of 1812. The opening chapters, therefore, are
                    devoted to the transportation revolution, labor movements, religious enthusiasm, and the reform
                    impulse. Although originally outside the political arena, each of these trends challenged
                    established authority and inevitably found political expression. To. accommodate them the political
                    system made various adaptations that led to a basic change in political style.
                    "Jeffersonian gentility" was replaced by the rough and tumble politics of party
                    machines making popular appeals to a mass electorate. The gentlemen politicians of an earlier age
                    were replaced by tough political professionals such as Thurlow Weed and Amos Kendall who cared
                    little for ideology but exhibited superb skill in winning elections.
            
            Over half the book is devoted to defining the "new politics." While the Jacksonians
                    did not invent techniques such as political conventions and party newspapers, the editors assert
                    that the Democrats were the first to exploit fully their political potential. Showmanship in
                    combination with Andrew Jackson's personal popularity and the organizational skills of
                    Democratic managers comprised the secret of the party's success. The Whigs, however,
                    quickly adopted Democratic tactics, and, as William Henry Harrison's election in 1840
                    proved, they learned to play by the new rules of American politics.
            Surprisingly, Gatell and McFaul devote only slightly more than one chapter to Jackson's
                    presidency and concentrate almost entirely on the Bank War. Here their treatment is relatively
                    standard. Jackson is portrayed as a strong President who expanded the power and authority of his
                    office. His chief innovation was to nationalize politics through his insistent claims that he was
                    the direct representative of the people. Jackson's veto of the Bank of the 
                        United States
                     with its blatant appeals to chauvanism, equalitarian prejudice, and strict construction
                    is seen as not only a brilliant piece of political rhetoric but as a summary of Jacksonian
                    philosophy.
            The editors of Jacksonian America have generally succeeded in capturing the flavor
                    of the era. The chief flaw in the book is the sometimes superficial and misleading distinctions made
                    between the politics of the Jeffersonian and Jacksonian periods. Even a casual study of the party
                    struggles before 1815 would show that the "new politics" was not all that new.
                    Despite this problem the volume would be a useful addition to the reading list of basic courses
                    dealing with the first half of American history.
            
               University of 
                            Wisconsin
                        , Milwaukee Frank A. Cassell
         
         
            
               The Expeditions of John Charles Frémont. Volume I, Travels from 1838 to 1844, and Map Portfolio. Edited by Donald Jackson and Mary Lee
                    Spence. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1970. Pp. xliv, 854. Illustrations, notes, maps, bibliography, index. Set,
                    $22.50.)
            
               The Expeditions of John Charles Frémont: Map Portfolio. Commentary by
                    Donald Jackson. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1970. Pp. 16. Notes. $10.00.)
            It is difficult to decide what serious purpose this newest Fremont publication is meant to serve. Two
                    thirds of the text of volume one consists of government reports long since published. These are not
                    inaccessible to scholars today, and though the editors went back to  the original manuscripts, their emendations do not alter the
                    traditional language very much. The personal letters and other previously unpublished items which
                    are used to provide a narrative thread to the reports are interesting but do not advance an
                    understanding of the Fremont saga beyond what his best biographers have said about him before. On
                    Frémont as a scientific explorer the editors are apparently content to accept the
                    judgments of W. H. Goetzmann–wisely, in this reviewer's opinion.
            What, then, is new? A great deal of energy was expended on identifying proper names as they appear in
                    the text, after the hallowed canons of Reuben G. Thwaites (sometimes to the point of absurdity, p.
                    103). The fulsome annotations to the financial records of the Frémont expeditions will be
                    new to some readers if not altogether so to Frémont scholars who have presumably used
                    these same records in preparing biographies and the like. The botanical annotations are both new and
                    good, but these could have been published in a separate pamphlet at a very small price. As to
                    cartographic annotations, they are of high quality but neither exhaustive nor very new. Jackson, the
                    travel expert of the editorial team, covered much of the ground by car and then decided to rely on
                    local experts in critical areas. Some of their calculations have never been presented in print
                    before. For the rest he generally endorses such writers as Dale Morgan (another wise decision) or
                    omits annotations altogether for long stretches of territory where, in his opinion, other scholars
                    have satisfactorily labelled the region. The general reader will suffer because of this last
                    decision. Indeed, the annotations are out of balance throughout the book. Some are useful to
                    experts, some to general readers; but the book as a whole is well suited to neither class of users.
            For serious workers what is wanted nowadays is a "Companion" to Frémont
                    studies, a fat volume designed to be read concurrently with an uncluttered text. It would contain
                    annotations of the usual kind but also very full references to secondary works touching all points
                    of interest. Fremont's place in history is just too big to be edited in the old-fashioned
                    way. The Frémont maps do not belong in a portfolio, as here. In a Companion they would be
                    juxtaposed with explanatory overlays, the style employed by German cartographic historians. These
                    overlays could be a treasure to scholars and a joy to everyone else.
            
               The Bear Flag Revolt and the Court Martial, volume II of a projected three volume
                    set, will probably be more interesting since it must deal with unresolved controversies of real
                    importance. Prospective buyers should note that the Map Portfolio is to be used with all three
                    volumes, not just the first.
            
               Stanislaus State College, Turlock, Calif. J. W. Smurr
         
         
         
            
               The Woolen Industry of the Midwest. By Norman L. Crockett. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1970. Pp. x, 149. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $7.25.)
            Professor Crockett contends that historians have neglected not only the contribution of small
                    companies to American economic development but as well "the significant role of small
                    manufacturing in the settlement and growth of the American West" (p. ix). The second half
                    of the nineteenth century provided a favorable climate for residentiary industries in the developing 
                        economy
                     of the West. By providing goods and services to limited areas this type of small
                    manufacturing was able to compete momentarily with the larger eastern industries. Making judicious
                    use of the records of woolen mills in eight midwestern states, Crockett has skillfully produced a
                    short but valuable study of a typical residentiary industry of the period. Relatively high freight
                    charges on woolen textiles shipped to the Midwest, together with close proximity to the raw
                    materials and markets, offered area manufacturers locational advantages over eastern competitors. To
                    make the most of these advantages local midwestern mills tended to offer specialized services to
                    their rural customers.
            Although the author does not stress the point, the heyday of the woolen mills in the Midwest was
                    relatively short, amounting roughly to the period between 1850 and 1870. By 1870 there were 881
                    woolen mills in the area studied. Decline set in, however, during the decade of the seventies. In
                    the best chapters of his study Crockett establishes the reasons for this decline–improved
                    transportation and lower freight rates, the growth of cities in the Midwest, dame fashion and ready
                    made clothing, the demand for light weight worsteds, obsolescent machinery, and the changing
                    patterns in agriculture and livestock breeding–all of which combined to reduce the number
                    of mid-western mills to seventy by 1920. Interestingly, the few mills which managed to survive did
                    so by specializing in such items as quality blankets or felt for the printing presses and by the
                    adoption of more efficient marketing techniques.
            Apart from serving as a study of a typical residentiary industry, the chief merit of this work
                    appears to lie in the numerous insights it provides for students of urban as well as agricultural
                    and economic history. While occasionally referring to the beginnings of manufacturing in smaller
                    towns, the historian of midwestern communities has often tended to bypass the transitionary period
                    from a commercial 
                        economy
                     to large scale industry. Urban growth and improved transportation did not benefit all
                    citizens of the midwestern towns. It is not surprising to learn that many mill owners declined to
                    participate in promotional efforts for the railroads. Although his treatment of  labor policies of the mill owners is of necessity somewhat sketchy due
                    to the scarcity of sources, Crockett makes the interesting point that women were
                    frequently employed in the woolen mills, numbering at times up to fifty per cent
                    of the laboring force. This suggests that, at least in this industry, opportunities for women as
                    urban laborers came before large scale industrialization and urbanization. On the other hand
                    historians of agriculture may note the importance of a cash crop, wool clippings, to the farmer and
                    the marketing relationship between the rural family, the town merchant, and local mill owner, which
                    despite misgivings served to the advantage of all. Business historians should find the emphasis on
                    seasonal problems of financing the operation of the woolen mills as well as the difficulties
                    occasioned by the employment of secondhand machinery of significant value.
            The work includes a detailed bibliography and an adequate index. Due to the technical nature of some
                    of the material on the milling operations, the style is at times a bit heavy. Perhaps a glossary of
                    technical terms would have been useful.
            
               St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, Ind. Charles Poinsatte
         
         
            
               Editors Make War: Southern Newspapers in the Secession Crisis. By Donald E.
                    Reynolds. (
                        Nashville
                    : Vanderbilt University Press, 1970. Pp. xi, 304. Appendix, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $10.00.)
            Aside from the fact that the notes are in the back, everything about this book is good except its
                    title. The subtitle clearly and correctly indicates the nature of the contents. The outgrowth of a
                    Tu-lane University dissertation, Reynolds' study is both polished and judicious. Moreover
                    it is wonderfully comprehensive. While Dwight L. Dumond and others have worked in the same field, no
                    scholar has surpassed or even equalled Reynolds on this subject in terms of thrust and scope. Nearly
                    two hundred newspapers were consulted, many of them printed in small communities. Representative?
                    They certainly are.
            This young historian's literary craftsmanship is as impressive as his research. In the hands
                    of a less skillful performer the work might have been marred by unimaginative repetitions in both
                    language and arrangement, but the narrative flows smoothly throughout. Artistic touches are
                    abundant. With seeming ease the author guides the reader from generalizations to specifics and on to
                    more significant generalizations, and from time to time in a far from monotonous way from thesis to
                    antithesis to synthesis.
            
            The title is bad, though catchy, because a great many of the southern editors definitely did not want
                    war. To suggest that all or nearly all of them not only wanted but made war is utterly misleading.
                    Conscientiously, and with color and charm, Reynolds recreates the journalistic actualities of what
                    were for numerous editors frustrating, tragic, and perilous months. Attitudes toward the John C.
                    Breckinridge, John Bell, Stephen A. Douglas, and Abraham Lincoln presidential candidacies are
                    suitably documented point by point. Not only does the author avoid tumbling into pitfalls of
                    superficiality, but he repeatedly dares to interpret what he has reported. And he appears to keep
                    the reader constantly in mind, to the end that the nonexpert as well as the specialist can and will
                    understand the shading of conviction and the shifts of opinion.
            Finally and emphatically it should be stated that students of the coming of the 1861-1865 conflict
                    ought not to make the mistake of consigning Editors Make War to the back bayous of
                    historiography. This long needed work is one of quality. It is also maincurrent.
            
               University of 
                     Kentucky,
                                Lexington
                  
                Holman Hamilton
         
         
            
               The Limits of Dissent: Clement L. Vallandigham & the Civil War. By Frank
                    L. Klement. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1970. Pp. xii, 351. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $10.50.)
            Clement L. Vallandigham was the best known Copperhead and one of the most controversial figures of
                    the Civil War. An Ohioan, he settled and practiced law in 
                        Dayton
                    , became a Douglas Democrat, and served in Congress, 1858-1863. In the latter year he
                    reached his zenith as a practitioner of the politics of dissent when he was arrested and banished to
                    the southern Confederacy for denouncing policies of the Lincoln administration. He committed his
                    defiant act to get the Democratic nomination for governor of 
                        Ohio
                     in 1863, and he succeeded. But he lost the election, and thereafter his political
                    fortunes ebbed.
            Vallandigham's role as a wartime dissenter has been treated in articles and monographs, but
                    until now only one biography had been written–a sympathetic volume by a devoted brother
                    which appeared in 1872, a year after the subject's death. Vallandigham deserved more. He
                    merited a scholarly study that focused on his wartime career, showing precisely his views on leading
                    issues and explaining why and under what circumstances he held those views. Professor Klement
                    accomplishes this task in his excellent biography.
            The job required clearing away much rubbish, for over the years 
                    Vallandigham became enshrouded in lore and legend. This is understandable. Throughout his career he
                    was either loved or hated, and friends and enemies circulated all sorts of stories about him. Though
                    many were outright lies, they became embedded in history. Some portrayed Vallandigham as a true
                    patriot and courageous liberal; others presented him as a lawless disunionist and despicable
                    traitor. Element deals effectively with these and other myths that befogged his subject.
            The Vallandigham that emerges is far more fascinating and baffling than the man of myth. He had a
                    keen mind and an enormous ego. He could be charming and friendly or petty and vindictive. He was
                    self-righteous and self-seeking, craved public attention, had a passion for politics, and excelled
                    as an orator of criticism and dissent. But he was too unrealistic and unimaginative to function
                    successfully as a practical politician.
            Though Vallandigham was liberal on such issues as personal freedom and civil liberties, he performed
                    as a radical to get himself arrested and as a reactionary, after emancipation, in advocating the
                    restoration of the 
                        Union
                     with slavery. Actually he admired the political theory of Edmund Burke and was
                    basically conservative. As a spokesman for midwestern sectional interests he supported agriculture,
                    free trade, a homestead policy, state's rights, comity of sections, white supremacy, law
                    and order, and preservation of the Union through peace and compromise. Throughout the war, but
                    especially after the Emancipation Proclamation, his favorite slogan was "the Constitution
                    as it is, the 
                        Union
                     as it was."
            The Civil War produced no judicial decision defining the limits of dissent. The Supreme Court could
                    have done so in the case arising out of Vallandigham's arrest, but it did not. And the
                    limits of dissent remained undefined when the war ended.
            There is little in this book to criticize. One can argue that the last chapter, which treats judicial
                    rulings on wartime rights from the Civil War to the present, should include a discussion of Supreme
                    Court decisions on the internment of Japanese-Americans during World War II. And one can dig up a
                    few factual errors, but only minor ones.
            This volume deserves highest praise. It is the product of extensive and painstaking research by a
                    thoughtful scholar whose writing is clear and whose insight, judgment, and objectivity are
                    admirable. Every serious student of the Civil War should read this timely and valuable study.
            
               
                  
                            Michigan
                         State University, East Lansing Frederick D. Williams
         
         
         
            
               Sovereignty and an Empty Purse: Banks and Politics in the Civil War. By Bray
                    Hammond. (Princton: 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1970. Pp. ix, 400. Notes, works cited, index. $10.00.)
            It has been known for a number of years that the late Bray Hammond, author of the well known banking
                    history, Banks and Politics in 
                            America
                         from the Revolution to the Civil War (1957), was working on a continuation of
                    his book. The result of his labors, completed a short time before his death, is the volume here
                    under review. Brilliantly written, as was his older book, it is essentially a narration of Civil War
                    finance against the background of the trying discrepancy between financial means available and the
                    political problems to be solved by the government. Although a narration, the book cannot be
                    criticized as empiricistic. The author is well informed on the history of financial and political
                    theories in the 
                        United States
                    . Thus he shows the actors as guided or misguided by theoretical considerations
                    outlived, rather than by what would have been modern for the time. (In this and other respects he
                    has the lowest opinion of Salmon P. Chase.) In this situation lay, according to 
                        Hammond
                    , difficulties in addition to those stemming from the empty purse of the nation.
                    Regardless of such analysis the work cannot be characterized as analytical economic history in the
                    sense of today.
            
               
                        Hammond
                    's subject matter is hardly new; but the focus "bankers and
                    politics" is. Thus the book is, partly because of its details, a welcome contribution to
                    financial history.
            
               Belmont, Mass. Fritz Redlich
         
         
            
               The Rise of 
                            Warren
                         Gamaliel Harding, 1865-1920. By Randolph C. Downes. ([
                        Columbus
                    ]: 
                        Ohio
                     State University Press, 1970. Pp. x, 734. Frontispiece, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $17.50.)
            Since 1965 Warren G. Harding has become a major figure in American historiography. This is
                    attributable to the biographies by Andrew Sinclair and Francis Russell, Robert K. Murray's
                    examination of the Harding administration, and now Randolph C. Downes' study of Harding
                    before his election as President.
            Professor Downes undertakes to set forth the details of Harding's early career. In doing so
                    he unostentatiously corrects the exaggerations and fills in most of the gaps in the Sinclair and
                    Russell works and complements Murray's fine book. Downes adds muscle if not color to the
                    familiar story of Harding, the hard working publisher, small town booster, and political
                    opportunist. The careful  study of Harding's editorials
                    reveals him as a protectionist and something of a chauvinist, who frequently inveighs against labor
                    unions, excessive immigration, and even political bossism. After formally entering politics in 1899
                    Harding becomes more accommodating in his political viewpoints, usually adjusting them to whatever
                    appears necessary to gain personal political success in the Republican party.
            In presenting this material Downes guides his readers expertly through the tangled jungles of local, 
                        Ohio
                    , and national politics. He skimps only in explaining how Harding became lieutenant
                    governor of 
                        Ohio
                     and what he did officially in that office. His discussion of Harding and the League of
                    Nations issue is intelligent and stimulating. Also particularly excellent is his lengthy treatment
                    of Harding's campaigns for presidential nomination and election in 1920 although it would
                    have helped had he given serious attention to the other 1920 presidential nominees so readers could
                    have a better grasp of what Harding was fighting against and responding to.
            Downes' overall interpretation of Harding as a highly skilled politician who was too often a
                    step behind in understanding the nation's needs is well supported in this book.
                    Unfortunately, his interpretation of the reasons for Harding's election as President leaves
                    something to be desired. One cannot quarrel with his view that Harding and his aides conducted
                    excellent campaigns for nomination and election or that so called isolationism and a reaction
                    against big government played significant roles. Yet, Downes overlooks James Cox' sloppy
                    presidential campaign. It is doubtful that the "greatest single reason for the Republican
                    victory was the return of the Progressives" (p. 632). The Progressives just did not command
                    that much strength in 1920; they were closer to impotence than to importance. The widespread and
                    burning resentment against Woodrow Wilson would be a far better choice as the chief reason for the
                    huge proportions of Harding's victory.
            Despite these disagreements, Downes must be credited with mainly accomplishing what he set out to do.
                    He presents the details of Harding's prepresidential career and documents them admirably,
                    and his work is a success in supporting the chief interpretation of Harding the politician. Downes
                    is to be congratulated for this.
            
               University of 
                     Kansas,
                                Lawrence
                  
                Donald R. McCoy
         
         
            
               The Harding Era: Warren G. Harding and His Administration. By Robert K. Murray. (
                        Minneapolis
                    : University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 1969. Pp. ix, 626. Illustrations, notes, sources, index. $13.50.)
            Books come and go–that is, they come from the publishers and  eventually retire to some bookshelf–but occasionally a book
                    of high quality comes along, and its influence continues for many years; such is the nature of the
                    present volume. The University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press has been marking up the prices of its books lately, and the price of this one
                    will not make it a large seller. It is long, and that will militate against its being read. It has
                    some patches of dullness, particularly in the middle where despite the author's best
                    efforts the material on railways, labor, and agriculture will cause no hearts to leap up. A year
                    before the present book's publication Francis Russell brought out a volume which
                    immediately received adoption by the Book-of-the-Month Club and probably saturated the fairly small
                    market for Warren G. Harding books. Nonetheless the present work is so levelheaded, so carefully
                    done, its research so prodigious, that it surely will become the standard source of
                    historians' evaluation of the Harding years. With great frankness the author has scored
                    both historians and journalists for failing to look beneath the tinsel and tawdriness of the Harding
                    era to the achievements of the time, and it is clear that nothing more can be written about the
                    Harding administration without reference to Murray's book.
            The author has brought out the utter failure of the Woodrow Wilson administration in its last year
                    and a half, and perhaps longer than that for the war, the peace conference, and the treaty occupied
                    Wilson's attention to the exclusion of almost everything else. Murray gives striking
                    evidence that the Republican administration of Harding restored order to the departments of the
                    federal government, brought back a viable relation between the presidency and Congress, and
                    generally produced a feeling throughout the country that normal times had returned.
                    Harding's speech in 
                        Boston
                     in May, 1920, about normalcy was no frivolous comment, no bloviation, and the President
                    of 1921-1923 translated it into a legislative and administrative program that was remarkably
                    successful. As proof there was the treaty of peace with 
                        Germany
                     and treaties with the other defeated European nations, the creation of the Budget
                    Bureau, the assembling of the 
                        Washington
                     Naval Conference, agricultural legislation, 
                        economy
                     in government, and debt reduction. Business recovered from a postwar depression, and if
                    Harding and his assistants were not altogether responsible for this upswing, they did nothing to
                    prevent it and probably a good deal to encourage it. By the time of Harding's death in 1923
                    his administration had proved such a success that Calvin Coolidge carried on its program in
                    subsequent years, albeit with suitable descriptions of the program as his own.
            Murray admits that Harding was no reader, that if he had a good mind he had not bothered to exercise
                    it prior to the presidency, but  the author shows also that
                    Harding was a much more able individual than he himself believed and that his common sense often was
                    extraordinary in its perceptions. As for dissoluteness, the President was mostly a one drink man,
                    and no one ever saw him drunk. He enjoyed a little poker for low stakes. The Duchess, his wife, was
                    in many ways a good wife, but it is true that Harding made up for one of her deficiencies by
                    consorting with Carrie Phillips and, perhaps, Nan Brit-ton. A half century later it all hardly seems
                    remarkable. There is not the slightest evidence that it had any effect on his public career. Indeed,
                    when Carrie implored him to vote against the war with 
                        Germany
                     in 1917, Harding made a Senate speech advocating war. As for the other Harding
                    scandals, so called, they were not as bad as they seemed at the time of their disclosure, and
                    historians, Murray rightly contends, should stop making so much of them.
            All in all this is a splendid book.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Robert H. Ferrell
         
         
            
               Historians on the Homefront: American Propagandists for the Great War. By George
                    T. Blakey. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1970. Pp. 168. Notes, bibliographical essay, index. $7.00.)
            During the First World War the 
                        United States
                     government was successful in mobilizing not only soldiers for European battlefields and
                    workers for industry but professional academic historians who were "ready to enlist their
                    talents to justify America's part in the war, delineate historic causes of the struggle,
                    and unify public opinion" (p. 14). Such luminaries of the profession as J. Franklin
                    Jameson, James T. Shotwell, Guy Stanton Ford, Charles A. Beard, Carl Becker, A. B. Hart, and Indiana
                    University's Samuel B. Harding were numbered among the historians who served the National
                    Board for Historical Service, the Committee on Public Information, and the National Security League.
                    These historians filled a need and met a demand, for as Booth Tarkington noted, the typical Hoosier
                    (or average American) was "loyal, but not at all clear as to what we are
                    fighting. … But if he reads a pamphlet ‘got out by the 
                        United States
                     Gov'ment’ he is ‘impressed!’" (p.
                    34). Millions of words and pamphlets were written and distributed to the American people under the
                    imprint of leading historians, and George T. Blakey, in an excellent first monograph, describes the
                    resulting situation.
            Not all members of the profession, nor the American public, were satisfied with the admittedly
                    propagandistic efforts of the participating  historians, and
                    serious questions of propriety and professional ethics were raised. C. Hartley Grattan mounted a
                    full scale attack, and H. L. Mencken suggested a medal and pension to reward historians for
                    prostituting their professional training, integrity, and standards. Blakey observes, however, that
                    most of the participating historians "regarded their extraordinary venture into patriotic
                    service as an aberrant chapter in their lives, an atypical departure from scholarship necessitated
                    by the national crisis and obviating judgment by professional standards" (p. 140).
                    Nonetheless, despite such rationalizations, historians did not take part in similar activities in
                    the Second World War, and, with one or two notable exceptions, they have hesitated to combine the
                    roles of scholarship and political activism.
            Blakey has written a most interesting and needed work, one that all historians would be well advised
                    to read. The dangers of historians writing propaganda are clearly pointed out. The author writes
                    well, has gone to the original records of the propaganda agencies, as well as to the private papers
                    of historians, and his conclusions are judicious and well grounded. The author might have included
                    more material from historians who were critical of the entire operation and also contrasted
                    historians with members of other fields engaged in similar activities; both would have added a
                    broader perspective. This, however, should not detract from the book's already considerable
                    merits.
            
               University of Tulsa, Tulsa, Okla. Thomas H. Buckley
         
         
            
               Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg: The Evolution of a Modern Republican, 1884-1945.
                    By C. David Tompkins. ([East Lansing]: 
                        Michigan
                     State University Press, 1970. Pp. viii, 312. Notes, note on sources, index.
                    $9.00.)
            Arthur H. Vandenberg was one of the few Republicans to survive politically the Democratic victories
                    of the 1930s. Appointed to the Senate in 1928, he remained there until his death in 1951. His place
                    in 
                        United States
                     history stems primarily from the last half dozen years of his career when he was a
                    spokesman for bipartisan foreign policy and played a prominent role in the formation of the United
                    Nations, the Truman Doctrine, and the 
                        Marshall
                     Plan. Professor Tompkins is leaving this phase of Vandenberg's life to a
                    second volume to be written when important collections are opened to researchers. The
                    author's intention in the volume under review is to cover the less known earlier career of
                    Vandenberg and to trace his evolution as a modern Reublican, a term not well defined but which
                    apparently means a Republican who accepted principles of the early New Deal and who rejected
                    isolationism.
            
            Vandenberg was a complicated figure, difficult to categorize. He was not, for example, an
                    isolationist suddenly turned internationalist; the reader may wonder how much of either he ever was.
                    He was a pragmatist and generally, but not invariably, a partisan Republican, characteristics which
                    probably influenced him far more than any philosophy of American involvement in the world. Early in
                    the twentieth century he accepted a role of international involvement for the 
                        United States
                     because he supported Theodore Roosevelt's foreign policy. He could not accept
                    Woodrow Wilson's League of Nations without reservations, for he objected to Article Ten; at
                    the same time he realized the importance of American membership for a permanent, successful League.
                    He supported Franklin Roosevelt's proposal to join the Permanent Court of International
                    Justice. During the 1937 debate on neutrality legislation he favored mandatory provisions leaving
                    the executive little discretion. The author says Vandenberg's denunciation of those
                    provisions giving the President discretion in application of the neutrality law was indicative of
                    his commitment to isolationism and his partisanship. There was in Vandenberg's actions that
                    distrust which senators frequently reveal toward presidential leadership in foreign policy.
                    Vandenberg's attitudes toward neutrality legislation and lend lease, and his proposal for a
                    congressional-executive committee to cooperate on general American policy and postwar planning, are
                    examples of his desire to limit executive initiative and allow a congressional role in foreign
                    policy making. Perhaps some distrust is not entirely bad.
            In domestic policy Vandenberg recognized the need for Republicans to become more liberal and not to
                    oppose every New Deal measure. Tompkins believes that Vandenberg's greatest domestic
                    achievement was his successful work for deposit insurance in the face of Roosevelt's
                    opposition. Later some of the Democratic faithful tried to minimize Vandenberg's efforts
                    and to appropriate the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation as one of Roosevelt's major
                    accomplishments.
            Tompkins has done wide research, using primarily the Vandenberg papers of which, according to the
                    author, the family destroyed several file cabinets containing pre-1939 correspondence. The story of
                    Vandenberg to 1945 is, of course, incomplete–little more than a prelude to the important
                    events which come later. For a detailed study of the 
                        Michigan
                     senator's role in these events one may look forward to the author's
                    sequel.
            
               
                  
                            North Texas
                         State University, Denton William Kamman
         
         
         
            
               The Politics of Fear: Joseph R. McCarthy and the Senate. By Robert Griffith. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , for the Organization of American Historians, 1970. Pp. xi, 362. Notes, bibliographical
                    essay, index. $8.50.)
            This study of Joseph McCarthy's Senate career contains a few minor errors and some
                    unfortunate repetition of quotations. Griffith also succumbs occasionally to journalese. There is a
                    "left winger" who "bankrolled" radical causes, testimony
                    "greedily seized upon" by the GOP, the House Un-American Activities Committee
                    which "sniffed" about the premises at Fort Monmouth, Ralph Flanders being told to
                    "lay off" McCarthy.
            Some of Griffith's interpretations may also provoke disagreement. Was the National Committee
                    for an Effective Congress (whose files proved the author's most important source) as useful
                    in the fight against McCarthy as Griffith implies ? Senator Hubert H. Humphrey, as Griffith himself
                    notes, did not think so. And was McCarthy the liability to candidates at election time that Griffith
                    claims ? Here the author's primary source is a study published by Louis Bean in the spring
                    of 1954 which was encouraged by the NCEC itself. While the study raises doubts about
                    McCarthy's appeal, it hardly "smash [es] the myth of McCarthy's
                    invincibility" at that time (p. 241). Indeed, Griffith later cites Gallup polls which show
                    but little erosion in McCarthy's popular support through August, 1954.
            Griffith also seems a little uncertain about the central question of his study: what, if anything,
                    could have been done to demolish McCarthy? On several occasions he laments the vacillation of men
                    like Harry S. Truman and Dwight D. Eisenhower, the mistakes in strategy of the Tydings Committee,
                    the cold war liberalism of men like Humphrey, and the well meaning indecision of senators such as
                    Robert Hendrickson and Charles Potter. "The real key to McCarthy's continued
                    power," he says, was "the fear and irresolution of honorable men" (p.
                    151). Yet Griffith also approvingly quotes Truman, who allegedly argued that "the only way
                    to beat McCarthy was to let him ‘run his course because he would destroy himself
                    " (p. 224); he concludes that McCarthy's cautious opponents in the Senate
                    "fought a politically wise battle" in 1954; and he emphasizes repeatedly that
                    McCarthy thrived because of the American political system. Mc-Carthyism, he says, was but a
                    "natural expression of America's political culture and a logical though extreme
                    product of its political machinery" (p. 30). Perhaps Griffith is merely saying the same
                    thing in different ways; surely he is tackling a very large problem which baffles Americans in 1971
                    as much as it did in 1951. But he might have been a little more rigorous in his analysis.
            
            If these be weaknesses in the book, they are relatively minor. Indeed, Griffith writes engagingly
                    enough to carry the reader through countless investigations and counter investigations. He shows
                    real understanding of the 
                        Washington
                     scene, particularly of the role of lobbyists and reporters. He does not shrink from
                    bold interpretations, and he has done an exceptionally thorough job of research in manuscript
                    collections and congressional sources. He is persuasively harsh on McCarthy, revealing him as a
                    cruel, cynical, above all insecure politician who loved the roar of the crowd, who drew heavily on
                    predecessors in the anticommunist crusade, and who lacked the balance to know when to stop. Above
                    all, Griffith places McCarthy neatly in the context of the Senate, and he is always careful in
                    describing the many characters whom he weaves skillfully into his absorbing narrative. The Politics of Fear is a work of considerable art and of solid research. It deserved the
                    1969 Frederick Jackson Turner prize of the Organization of American Historians.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                James T. Patterson
         
         
            
               In Pursuit of American History: Research and Training in the 
                            United States
                        . By Walter Rundell, Jr. Foreword by James B. Rhoads. (
                        Norman
                    : University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press, 1970. Pp. xv, 445. Notes, appendices, bibliography, index. $7.95.)
            In 1965 the Ford Foundation gave two million dollars to the National Archives Trust Board to help the
                    National Historical Publications Commission sponsor the Franklin, Jefferson, Hamilton, Madison, and
                    Adams papers. The foundation, according to Rhoads, stipulated that part of the interest from its
                    grant should finance a survey "of the use of original documentary source materials in the
                    teaching of American history at graduate levels" (p. vii). Walter Rundell, Jr., who was at
                    that time in the American Historical Association office, was chosen to conduct the survey. Between
                    1965 and 1966 Rundell interviewed and solicited questionnaires from 557 professors, graduate
                    students, librarians, and archivists in history departments which granted M.A.s and Ph.D.s and at
                    research libraries, historical societies, and archives. This book presents the results of that
                    survey.
            RundelPs "informing principle" was "to report the profession's
                    experiences as they related to graduate training" in American history (p. xiii). He appears
                    not to have sought the aid of professional survey researchers in designing his
                    interview-questionnaire instrument, in randomizing his choice of interviewees (how did he choose
                    which students or professors to talk to?), or in establishing rigorous categories or control groups
                    among his subjects. Since this book  presents research not on
                    history but on the contemporary behavior and attitudes of historians, such outside professional
                    consultation would have been valuable. Nevertheless, Rundell included most of the graduate
                    departments and research depositories in the 
                        United States
                    , and his "coverage" (p. 341), despite its methodological cloudiness,
                    provides a useful record of professional introspection (and, dismayingly often, a lack of it).
            If the NHPC hoped to hear resounding applause for large investments of time and money in publishing
                    the papers of statesmen, it must be nearly deafened by the silence. If concerned observers of
                    training and trends in American history, from graduate deans to colleagues in other fields to
                    prospective graduate students, have entertained doubts about the openness to innovation or the
                    serious assessment by American historians of their own marginal utility in academia and in society,
                    they will find these doubts frequently confirmed here (though also, refreshingly often, dispelled in
                    novel ways). And if the Ford Foundation or some other interested agency wished to survey graduate
                    education in history, not only as to how historians use and regard primary sources, but also why
                    they bother to do history, whether they are doing what they most usefully could be, and whether they
                    are properly funded, it could do so without duplicating Rundell's work very much. Rundell
                    did not include these latter questions within his charge, though he sometimes suggests them, but
                    someone should. Members of the historical guild are not apprising themselves of the concepts and
                    methods of their colleagues in the social sciences as rapidly as social scientists are increasingly
                    employing "time series" and "longitudinal surveys." The result
                    may be that guild-history will go the way of the apteryx, a prolific progenitor and an occasionally
                    even graceful bird, but one which, despite its many virtues, did not fly.
            There are many provocative nuggets in Rundell's book. He found, for example, a marked
                    divergence between librarians' and historians' viewpoints toward research training
                    and methods, a divergence which is basically philosophical, not just logistical (see under
                    librarians, archivists, and the horrifyingly delightful section on how dissertation topics are
                    selected). Librarians, archivists, curators, and historians should be required to read these
                    passages, if only to discover what they really think of each other. If Rundell's survey is
                    even approximately accurate, and his many quotations representative, and they seem to be, then the
                    historical profession lacks a firm and consensual view about what its mission is, as a discipline
                    either humanistic or social scientific. Critical questions such as these are assumed, attitudinized,
                    not even explicitly axiomatic; for example, see the quotations of T. Harry Williams, Elisha
                    Douglass, George W.  Pierson, and Sam B. Warner (pp. 44, 47) or
                    the enormously contradictory statements about the basic nature and design of historical research by
                    Thomas R. Adams (John Carter Brown Library) and Professor Robert Berkhofer of 
                        Wisconsin
                     (p. 109).
            Nearly all respondents (among historians, not librarians) preferred photocopying of sources to either
                    letterpress editions of papers or to large scale manuscript acquisitions, and a few respondents,
                    such as J. R. Hollingsworth, much preferred spending funds on computerizing census manuscripts,
                    which would provide "much more pay-off in understanding our national past" (p.
                    401). This reviewer gives a hearty amen to that, as well as to Rundell's number one
                    recommendation for improving research and graduate training: "a simplified guide to
                    government publications" (p. 195).
            Rundell's summary of research needs is specific, fair, and diligently worked out. It makes a
                    practical conclusion to a survey which is only occasionally trivial (the reader learns that Lewis
                    Atherton had to switch to trifocals because of using microfilm, p. 212), sometimes discouraging (can
                    historians never do better than to cite "common sense" as a research criterion?),
                    nearly always informative and stimulating. History professors, graduate students, and librarians
                    ought all to read it–and reflect upon their self-images, which evidently tend too often
                    to a complacent gnosticism.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Walter T. K. Nugent
         
         
            
               Sherwood Anderson's Memoirs: A Critical Edition. Newly edited from the
                    original manuscripts by Ray Lewis White. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : The University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1969. Pp. xxxix, 579. Illustrations, notes, selected bibliography, index.
                    $15.00.)
            
               Tar: A Midwest Childhood. By Sherwood Anderson. A critical text, edited with an
                    Introduction by Ray Lewis White. The Major Fiction of Sherwood Anderson. Edited by
                    Ray Lewis White. (
                        Cleveland
                     : The Press of Case Western Reserve University, 1969. Pp. xx, 257. Notes, appendices,
                    selected bibliography, index. $7.50.)
            Two of Sherwood Anderson's works edited by Ray Lewis White appeared in 1969. Sherwood Anderson's Memoirs: A Critical Edition is White's version of
                    what might have been. 
                        Anderson
                     had prepared materials for his "Memoirs," but the work was incomplete
                    at his death in 1941. In 1942 an edition of Sherwood Anderson's Memoirs
                    was issued, but there was much rewriting by Paul Rosenfeld, the principal editor, as 
                        White
                     demonstrates in his Introduction. According to 
                        White
                     the present edition is a completely new transcription using manuscripts and typescripts
                    only of works published (typescripts often  differ from
                    published works). This edition thus combines unpublished essays and fragments designed for 
                        Anderson
                    's "Memoirs" and essays and short stories with biographical
                    significance published during 
                        Anderson
                    's lifetime. In keeping with 
                        Anderson
                    's conception of his "Memoirs" 
                        White
                     has established a loose structure with no attempt at strict chronology. In the essay
                    here labeled "Foreward" 
                        Anderson
                     indicates that "time sense" is irrelevant to his story; his
                    "rambling house of a book, [is] a book of people"; his book is to be "a
                    book of the mind and of the imagination" (pp. 28, 29). 
                        White
                     has made six major time divisions from childhood through the thirties; within these
                    divisions chronology generally yields to impressions of people and events as 
                        Anderson
                     variously expressed them.
            
               
                        Anderson
                    's "Memoirs" was to be a kind of ultimate record of his life
                    as a typical American. In his stories 
                        Anderson
                     was continually writing about himself as well as those around him. He had previously
                    published two major fictional autobiographical accounts, A Story Teller's
                        Story (1924) and Tar: A Midwest Childhood (1926). The edition of Tar here reviewed establishes a text based on the apparently latest extant
                    typescript of the work and freed of the publisher's grammatical standardizations.
                    Annotation has been consciously directed at autobiography, and notes point out parallel versions of
                    incidents in 
                        Anderson
                    's other works and indicate deviations from fact.
            
               Tar is interesting and worth reading as a piece of fiction; as autobiography it is
                    revealing of 
                        Anderson
                    's tendencies as a writer and recorder of his life. As for many writers fact
                    and fiction mainly depend on the requirements of the story at hand; Anderson's multiple
                    versions of events and people make this practice evident. In the Foreward to Tar
                    
                        Anderson
                     makes clear the elusiveness of truth for him and the repeated recreation of fact which
                    marks his work (p. 6). The observation is valid for the Memoirs as well. Those who
                    like Anderson's work will enjoy Tar, but even the most devoted fans must
                    find the Memoirs a task to be approached piecemeal. 
                        White
                     has compiled a rich volume, but 
                        Anderson
                    's repetitions and complaints and ruminations become tedious in too large
                    doses.
            Beyond that personal complaint there are two more serious criticisms. One complaint concerns the
                    index of the Memoirs: it lacks entries for certain items (e.g., America,
                    dictatorship, time) and some entries are incomplete or confusing (e.g., death, Italian's
                    garden, patriotism, women). Another consideration is apparently dependent upon the mechanics of
                    publication, but it nonetheless mars the usefulness of the books in dealing with 
                        Anderson
                    . Notes in Tar refer to the 1942 edition of the Memoirs, and notes in 
                        White
                    's Memoirs refer to the 1926 edition of Tar. It is unfortunate that it was apparently impossible to make some arrangement for
                    reciprocal insertions of  references to the new–and
                    no doubt now standard–editions of the works. Tar is part of a series of 
                        Anderson
                    's major fiction which began in 1968 with A Story
                        Teller's Story. Notes in Story refer to the older editions of
                    both Tar and the Memoirs. Tar refers to the 1968 Story. Future volumes in the series presumably will refer to the new critical editions of
                    these major works. It is a bit of confusion and necessitates duplication that researchers will no
                    doubt regret.
            Nonetheless, Sherwood Anderson's Memoirs and Tar: A Midwest
                        Childhood are important additions to the growing number of accurately edited works of
                    American authors, and 
                        White
                     deserves commendation for his response to the task of modern textual editing.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Pamela J. Bennett
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               The Harmonists: A Personal History. By John S. Duss. Reprint. (Ambridge, Pa.: The
                    Harmonie Associates, Inc., 1970. Pp. xviii, 425. Illustrations, appendix. Paperbound,
                    $2.60.) Although this volume is not a history of the Harmony Society, it does contain
                    useful chapters on the Harmonists' background in Europe, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and Indiana. Following these introductory chapters the book becomes an autobiography
                    of the author and deals with the decline and dissolution of the Harmony Society. Duss was an able
                    but extremely egotistical man; his story contains many questionable assertions and outright
                    distortions of fact. As stated in the original review of The Harmonists written
                    for the Indiana Magazine of History (March, 1945), "this record is an
                    important source for a possible historian of the society, but a biased and an imperfect
                    source" (p. 82). It can perhaps most fairly be judged if, as the publishers of this reprint
                    edition suggest in a cover letter, "it is considered an apologia by Duss to justify his
                    rule of the Harmony Society at a critical period." Lorna Lutes Sylvester,
                        Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               The Unforeseen Wilderness: An Essay on 
                            Kentucky
                        's Red River Gorge.
                    
                        Text
                     by Wendell Berry; photographs by Gene Meatyard. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1971. Pp. 95. Illustrations. $6.95.) Berry presents an affectionate, though
                    at times an ineffective and disappointing, plea for the preservation of the Red
                    River Gorge of 
                        Kentucky
                    . Unfortunately his account is sometimes as meandering as the river he is describing. It
                    would have been strengthened if the author had done less sermonizing and had offered considerably
                    more pertinent information. Even the pictures are ineffectively and disappointingly presented. They
                    lack captions, and they are not related to the text in any appropriate manner.
            
               The Opening of the West. Edited by Jack M. Sosin. Second edition. Documentary History of the 
                            United States
                        . Edited by Richard B. Morris. (
                        Columbia
                    : The University of 
                        South Carolina
                     Press, 1970. Pp. vi, 237. Note. $7.95.) Ranging in subject from Indian
                    conflicts and early settlements through land speculation and policy to the government, 
                        economy
                    , society, and culture of the West, the documents in this volume describe the social,
                    political, and economic integration of the transappalachian area into the nation. The author
                    indicates through the selected letters, journals, congressional acts, court cases, church minutes,
                    etc. that "in culture, education, and manners the pioneers tended to retain the values and
                    practices, the social and class distinctions" they had brought with them from their homes.
                    "Change there was, to be sure, but change affecting the country as a whole and not merely
                    those moving to the West" (p. 10). The documents  in
                    the volume are varied both in nature and topic, and Sosin's Introduction provides the
                    necessary background for them. Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Roads of Destiny: The Trails That Shaped a Nation. By Douglas Waitley. (
                        Washington
                    : Robert B. Luce, Inc., 1970. Pp. xii, 13-319. Maps, references in text.
                    $7.95.) Interspersing his narrative with quotations from early travelers'
                    accounts, Waitley describes twenty-two waterways, trails, and roads which figured in the expansion
                    of colonial America to the Mississippi River from 1635 to 1850. The author
                    traveled many of the present versions of the first French trails, Braddock's Road, the
                    Wilderness Road, Natchez Trace, Iroquois Trail, National Road, etc. "to see them in their
                    modern setting as a comparison to reports of the wayfarers who took them in their heyday"
                    (p. viii). His descriptions of the "roads of destiny" are interesting, indeed
                    exciting; but his facts are frequently inaccurate and misleading. For example, in a brief paragraph
                    on Indiana Waitley infers that "hitherto unknown 
                        Indianapolis
                    " became the seat of state government only after the advent of the National
                    Road and the resulting influx of pioneers. (
                        Indianapolis
                     was planned as the state capital, and government offices were moved there in 1824; the
                    route of the National Road was not even laid out across Indiana until 1827.) Further, the state
                    capitol may have been "Parthenon-inspired" and a "much-heralded landmark
                    to the eight hundred thousand Indianans" in 1840, but it is highly improbable that most of
                    these Hoosiers "had either arrived over the National Road or been born of parents who
                    had" (p. 288). If the reader takes into account such inaccuracies and misstatements, Roads of Destiny would be a delightful traveling companion for anyone tracing the
                    westward migration of his ancestors. Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Revolutionary War Journals of Henry Dearborn, 1775-1783. Edited from the original
                    manuscripts by Lloyd A. Brown and Howard H. Peckham. Biographical essay by Hermon Dunlap Smith.
                    Reprint. The Era of the American Revolution. Edited by Leonard W. Levy. (
                        New York
                    : Da Capo Press, 1971. Pp. xvi, 264. Illustrations, notes, works consulted, index.
                    $12.50.) "Henry Dearborn served as an officer in the American Revolution from
                    April, 1775, until the reduction of the 
                        New Hampshire
                     line on March 1, 1783" (p. xi). He fought at Bunker Hill,
                    was with 
                        Washington
                     at Valley Forge, was in the advance attack at Monmouth, marched against the Indians in
                    northern 
                        New York
                    , and took part in the Yorktown campaign. Little more need be said concerning the
                    importance of the journals here reprinted. As an officer Dearborn had the advantage of knowing the
                         movements and objectives of the entire army as well as the
                    tactics and objectives of his own company or regiment, but his rank was not so high as to keep him
                    from the field and close contact with his men. His journals in nearly every instance are impersonal
                    and objective. which leads the reader to feel that "his comments on what he experienced may
                    be relied upon as sincere and usually accurate" (p. xiii). The interesting and informative
                    biographical essay by Smith adds essential background about the personal and public life of the man
                    who served as America's first secretary of war and who is frequently caricatured as 
                        Chicago
                    's Father Dearborn. Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Periodical Literature on the American Revolution: Historical Research and Changing
                        Interpretations, 1895-1970. A selective bibliography compiled by Ronald M. Gephart. (
                        Washington
                    : General Reference and Bibliography Division, Reference Department, Library of
                    Congress, 1971. Pp. iv, 93. Paperbound, $1.00.) This bibliography offers a guide to more
                    than one thousand items in the Library of Congress concerning the American Revolution. Most of them
                    are articles which originally appeared in scholarly magazines during the last seventy-five year. The
                    items listed are divided into various categories including "The View of
                    Contemporaries," "Historians and the Revolution in 
                        America
                    ," "The British Background," "The West During the
                    Revolutionary Era," "Phases of Religious Dissent," "The
                    Loyalists in 
                        America
                     and in Exile," and "Military Operations and Campaigns." A
                    number of the items cited concern conditions and developments in the Ohio
                    Valley during and following the American Revolution.
            
               The Social History of American Agriculture. By Joseph Schafer. Reprint. The American Scene: Comments and Commentators. Edited by Wallace D. Farnham. (
                        New York
                    : Da Capo Press, 1970. Pp. ix, 302. Maps, notes, index. $12.50.) This
                    unabridged reprint edition of a work which originally appeared in 1936 makes this useful volume
                    readily available once more. Though highly interpretative and sketchy, it merits careful study by
                    persons with a particular interest in American agricultural history. It is also important because it
                    reminds Americans generally of their persistent rural and agrarian heritage.
            
               The Life of Charles Jared Ingersoll. By William M. Meigs. Reprint. The
                        American Scene: Comments and Commentators. Edited by Wallace D. Farnham. (
                        New York
                    : Da Capo Press, 1970. Pp.  351. Illustrations,
                    notes, table of references, index. $19.50.) Written in 1897 by a grandson of Charles
                    Jared Ingersoll, this biography has all the flaws inherent in such late nineteenth century works. It
                    is biased, skimpily documented, and not particularly well written. Yet Ingersoll, lawyer and 
                        United States
                     congressman from 
                        Philadelphia
                    , was an influential and erudite participant in approximately the first half century of
                    America's history, and his contributions to that history deserve to be remembered. He was
                    one of the earliest advocates of war with 
                        England
                     in 1812 and an outspoken opponent of the men who "persistently agitated
                    against … [slavery], with an utter disregard of and contempt for the preservation of the 
                        Union
                    " prior to the Civil War (p. 6). As the author states, many readers
                    "will disagree with not a little contained in the … book, as well as with no
                    small portion of Mr. Ingersoll's political beliefs …, but, as his biographer
                    also suggests, Ingersoll at least deserves a "patient hearing" (p. 5). Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Confederate Operations in 
                            Canada
                         and the North: A Little-Known Phase of the American Civil War. By Oscar A.
                    Kinchen. (North Quincy, Mass.: The Christopher Publishing House, 1970. Pp. 254. Notes, appendices,
                    bibliography, index. $4.95.) Despite an apparently endless number of volumes of American
                    Civil War history, there is, as Kinchen points out, "more … to be said about
                    Confederate activities in 
                        Canada
                     and the Northern states in the latter years of the great civil
                    conflict…" (p. 7). In this volume the author hoped "to arrive at a fair
                    approximation of the truth" (p. 8) concerning Confederate attempts to attack the North from
                    the rear by releasing southern prisoners of war and uniting dissident northern elements behind the
                    faltering Confederacy. Unfortunately, an approximation is all that can be claimed. Sparsely
                    footnoted, the book contains many generalizations and statements of fact which are insufficiently
                    supported by documentary evidence. Kinchen also accepts— seemingly without
                    question—the assertions of spies, Confederate agents, partisan politicians, and alleged
                    conspirators. Given the questionable nature of much of the existing evidence and the fact that
                    "papers of prime importance … have long since been lost or destroyed"
                    (p. 8), the definitive history of Confederate activities in the North may never be written. Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Theodore Roosevelt and the Art of Controversy: Episodes of the 
                            White
                         House Years. By Willard B. Gatewood, Jr. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1970. Pp. vii, 294. Notes, index. $8.95.) The essays
                    in this volume treat such diverse issues as the  status of
                    Negroes, the rights of organized labor, federal patronage of the arts, the investigatory activities
                    of the national government, the uses of patronage, and the separation of church and state. They do
                    not, according to the author, "presume to offer a new interpretation of Theodore Roosevelt
                    or of his presidency" (p. v). Rather the episodes here described, though perhaps minor in
                    themselves, are concerned with what Gatewood terms "sensitive areas of American life
                    … [which] had implications of major significance …" (p. vi). They
                    also deal with the "Rooseveltian affinity for combat" and the President's
                    "personality and political techniques … which made him a persistent storm center
                    of controversy" (p. vi). The book is well documented, amusing, and informative. Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Jane Addams and the Liberal Tradition. By Daniel Levine. (
                        Madison
                    : The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1971. Pp. xviii, 277. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $8.50.)
                    This intellectual biography directs attention to Jane Addams mainly as a progressive reformer
                    important in the "transformation of America from rural and agricultural to urban and
                    industrial, from laissez-faire to general welfare state" in the late nineteenth and early
                    twentieth centuries (p. ix). Levine considers her a part of the radical tradition of America; that
                    is, according to his definition of radicalism, one who wants to change a lot of important things
                    rapidly (p. xv). In Part I beginning with her childhood years, Levine shows the development of her
                    thinking about society through the founding of Hull House and her involvement in the urban politics
                    of 
                        Chicago
                    . Addams' involvement in the social issues of the day and her growing national
                    prominence are the focus of Part II. Part III tells of the successes and triumphs of her later
                    years—working with women's suffrage, upholding pacifism in spite of World War I
                    and the accusations of her countrymen, and her ultimate success as cowinner of the Nobel Peace Prize
                    for 1931. Addams was active in "Virtually every major reform of the progressive
                    years" (p. xi), and Levine emphasizes her role as publicist and persuader in changing
                    Americans' ideas about American life. Levine's study is a compelling and thorough
                    account of the growth and changes in Addams' thought, of her strengths and weaknesses as a
                    reformer, and of her part in the radicalism of the American liberal tradition. Pamela
                        J. Bennett, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
         
         
         
            Conference on Historic Preservation
            The Third Annual Conference on Historic Preservation in Indiana will be held on the Indiana
                    University campus at 
                        Bloomington
                    , September 24-25, 1971. It will give considerable emphasis to architectural
                    preservation, as have the two previous conferences. A major new emphasis will concern the role of
                    arts and crafts in historic preservation. Information and case histories will be presented regarding
                    restoration projects, with particular attention to structures in northern Indiana. The consideration
                    of arts and crafts involved in historic preservation will include presentations concerning
                    "Early Monastic Cabinet Making and Stone Cutting in Indana," by Father Donald
                    Walpole of St. Meinrad Archabbey; "Barn Raising and Crafts Among the Amish," by
                    Leroy Troyer; and the "Early American Housewife and Her World," by Mrs. Helen
                    Dupray Bullock of the National Trust for Historic Preservation. Group discussion sections will
                    consider oral history, the need for a state plan for historic preservation, and the possible
                    development of cooperative action toward establishment of an Ohio River-Lower 
                        Wabash
                     Historic Trail.
            For those who wish to arrive on Thursday an informal reception will be held at the new Glenn Black
                    Laboratory of Archaeology at which Dr. James Kellar will interpret the archaeological information
                    which has been unearthed at Angel Mounds near 
                        Evansville
                    . Dr. I. Noel Hume, from Colonial Williamsburg, will discuss "Digging for
                    American History" at the Friday evening session. Registration for the conference will begin
                    on Friday morning. Persons wanting a copy of the final conference program and information about
                    reservations and housing should send complete mailing addresses to Dean Eunice Roberts, Chairman,
                    Committee on Historic Preservation, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana 47401. Reservations should be made as early as possible and definitely in
                    advance of the conference.
         
      
   
